Voorhees Township, New Jersey
Code of Ordinances
Contains 2024 S-30 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 456-24, passed 7-8-24
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 910-99
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING, RESTATING AND
RECODIFYING THE TOWNSHIP CODE
   WHEREAS, the current Township Code, which has not been revised, codified,
renumbered or reviewed in total since December, 1974; and
   WHEREAS, since 1974, various changes have occurred in State and Township
laws, regulations and procedures which are not clearly stated in the codified
version of the Township Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, current format of the Township Code can be confusing and difficult
to use and is not structured to allow for clear amendment as new ordinances are
adopted and made a part of the Code; and
   WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority contained under New Jersey State law,
Township Committee of the Township of Voorhees, County of Camden and State of
New Jersey (the "Township"), have caused the Township Code to be revised,
renumbered and rearranged, updated to conform with current State laws,
regulations and procedures and to conform with current Township procedures and
to renumber the sections of the Code to be easier to use and permit easier and
more organized incorporation of new ordinances into the Code; and
   WHEREAS, in order to clearly indicate how the revised Code has been modified
from the current Code, a blacklined version of the new Code has been prepared
showing the new Code sections and indicating the previous code section
reference and showing any deletions and all additions to the chapters, sections
and provisions of the Code; and
   WHEREAS, in order to give the public the most efficient method to review the
new Code and the changes being made, a copy of the new Code and a copy of the
black-lined version of new Code showing all changes from the current Code are
on file in the Township Clerk's office and will be available during normal
business hours for review by the public; and
   WHEREAS, the Township Committee of the Township has deemed it appropriate to
revise, amend, renumber, recodify and restate the Township Code as set forth in
the revised Code on file in the Township Clerk's Office,
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the members of the Township Committee of
the Township as follows:
   SECTION 1: Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:49-4, the ordinances of the Township of
Voorhees, of the general and permanent nature, adopted by the Township
Committee of the Township, as revised, codified and consolidated into chapters
and sections, are hereby approved, adopted, ordained and enacted as the "Code
of the Township of Voorhees", hereinafter known and referred to as the "Code."
   SECTION 2: This Code supersedes all other general and permanent ordinances
enacted prior to enactment of this Code, except such ordinances as are
hereinafter expressly saved from repeal or as are continued in full force and
effect.
   SECTION 3: A copy of the Code in loose-leaf form has been filed in the
office of the Township Clerk and shall remain there for the use and examination
of the public until final action is taken on this ordinance and, if this
ordinance shall be adopted, such copy shall be certified to by the Township
Clerk of the Township of Voorhees by impressing thereon the seal of the
Township, as provided by law, and such certified copy shall remain on file in
the office of the Township Clerk, to be made available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while the Code is in effect.
   SECTION 4: Any and all additions, amendments, supplements to the Code, when
passed and adopted in such form as to indicate the intent of the Township
Committee to make them a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into
such Code so that reference to the "Code of the Township of Voorhees" shall be
understood and intended to include such additions, and amendments. Whenever
such additions, amendments or supplements to the Code shall be adopted, they
shall thereafter be printed and, as provided hereunder inserted in the loose-
leaf book containing the Code, as amendments and supplements thereto.
   SECTION 5: The Clerk, pursuant to law, shall cause to be public, in the
manner required, a copy of the adopting ordinance in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Township. Sufficient copies of the Code shall be maintained
in the office of the Township Clerk for inspection by the public at all time
during regular office hours. The enactment and publication of this adopting
ordinance, coupled and the availability of copies of the Code for inspection by
the public, shall be deemed, held and considered to be due and legal
publication of all provisions of the Code for all purposes.
   SECTION 6: It shall be the duty of the Township Clerk, or someone authorized
and directed by her, to keep up-to-date the certified copy of the book
containing the Code required to be filed in her office for the use of the
public. All changes to the Code and all ordinances adopted subsequent to the
effective date of this codification, which shall be adopted specifically as
part of the Code, once when finally adopted, shall be included therein by
reference until such changes or new ordinances are printed as supplements to
the Code book, at which time such supplements shall be inserted therein.
   SECTION 7: Copies of the Code book containing the Code may be purchased from
the Township Clerk upon the payment of a fee to be set by the Township
Committee, who may also arrange, by ordinances, for procedures for the periodic
supplementation thereof.
   SECTION 8: It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of the Code, or to alter or tamper
with such Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the
Township of Voorhees to be misrepresented thereby. Anyone violating this
section of this ordinance shall be subject, upon conviction, to a penalty as
set forth in §
10.99 of the new Code.
   SECTION 9: Each section of the Code, and every part of each section, is an
independent section or part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause shall
not be deemed to affect the validity or constitutionality of any other sections
or parts thereof.
   SECTION 10: Each section of this ordinance is an independent section, and
the holding of any section or part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or
ineffective for any cause shall not be deemed to affect the validity or
constitutionality of any other sections or parts thereof.
   SECTION 11: All ordinances or parts of ordinances of a general and permanent
nature, adopted and in force on the date of the adoption of this ordinance and
not contained in the Code, are hereby repealed as of the effective date of this
adopting ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
   SECTION 12: The adoption of this Code and the repeal of ordinances provided
for in Section 11 above shall not affect the following ordinances, rights and
obligations, which are hereby expressly saved from repeal.
      (A)   Any ordinance adopted after June 1, 1998.
      (B)   Any right or liability established, accrued or incurred under any
legislative provision prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or any
action or proceeding brought for the enforcement of such right or liability.
      (C)   Any offense or act committed or done before the effective date of
this ordinance in violation of any legislative provision, or any penalty,
punishment or forfeiture which may result therefrom.
      (D)   Any prosecution, indictment, action, suit or other proceeding
pending, or any judgment rendered, prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, brought pursuant to any legislative provision.
      (E)   Any franchise, license, right, easement or privilege heretofore
granted or conferred.
      (F)   Any ordinance providing for the laying out, opening, altering,
widening, relocating, straightening, establishing grade, changing name,
improvement, acceptance or vacation or any right-of-way, easement, street,
road, highway, park or other public place, or any portion thereof.
      (G)   Any ordinance or resolution appropriating money or transferring
funds, promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the
issuance and delivery of any bond or other instruments or evidence of the
Township's indebtedness.
      (H)   Ordinances authorizing the purchase, sale, lease or transfer of
property, or any lawful contract or obligation.
      (I)   The levy or imposition of taxes, assessments or charges.
      (J)   The dedication of property or approval of preliminary or final
subdivision plots.
      (K)   Ordinances establishing the amount and manner of payment of
salaries or compensation of officers and employees; establishing workdays and
working hours of certain employees; and providing for holidays and vacations
for employees and keeping of employment records.
      (L)   Any ordinance making any change or revision in the zoning map or
zoning classification of property, including any ordinance adopted to implement
the Revised Township Master Plan adopted by the Township Planning Board on
September 25, 1998.
      (M)   Any ordinance regulating traffic or parking.
      (N)   An ordinance adopted 5-20-01, granting a franchise to the Eastern
Telephone and Telegraph Company, as well as an ordinance adopted 3-18-03
granting Eastern Telephone and Telegraph Company the right to string wires,
etc.
      (O)   An ordinance adopted 3-18-03, granting a franchise to the Delaware
and Atlantic Telephone and Telegraph Company.
      (P)   An ordinance adopted 4-27-92, establishing fourteen election
districts.
      (Q)   An ordinance adopted 3-23-60, granting a franchise to the Lakeside
Park Water Company.
      (R)   An ordinance adopted 09/09/96, granting a franchise to Garden State
Cable Television Company.
   SECTION 13: In compiling and preparing for adoption of this revised Code,
all of the changes, including all deletions, clarifications, grammatical
corrections and changes to conform to current State and Federal Law and current
State, Federal and Township procedures were made, as indicated in the black-
lined copy of the new Code. It is the intention of the Township Committee that
all such changes be adopted as part of the Code as if the ordinances so changed
had been previously formally amended to read as such.
   SECTION 14: All other ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with
the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency.
   SECTION 15: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon final
passage and publication as required by law.
                        VOORHEES TOWNSHIP
                        BY:   Gary Finger /s/
                           Gary Finger, Mayor
                        ATTEST:
                        Jeanette Schleberg /s/
                        Jeannette Schelberg, Clerk
Introduced: January 25, 1999
Adopted: February 22, 1999
I, Jeannette Schelberg, Clerk of the Township of Voorhees, hereby certify the
foregoing to be a true and correct copy of an Ordinance adopted on second
reading by the Mayor and Township Committee at their meeting of February 22,
1999 held in the Municipal Building, 620 Berlin Road, Voorhees, New Jersey.
Jeanette Schleberg /s/
Jeannette Schelberg, Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10. GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Rules
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Section histories; statutory references
Adoption of Code by Township Committee
   
10.25   Adoption of code
   
10.26   Code supersedes prior ordinances
   
10.27   Copy of code on file
   
10.28   Amendments to code
   
10.29   Publication; filing
   
10.30   Code book to be kept up-to-date
   
10.31   Sale of code book
   
10.32   Altering or tampering with code
   
10.33   Severability of code provisions
   
10.34   Severability of ordinance provisions
   
10.35   Repeal of ordinances
   
10.36   Ordinances saved from repeal
   
10.37   Changes in previously adopted ordinances
 
   
10.99   General Penalty
GENERAL RULES
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Voorhees
Township shall be designated as the Code of Voorhees Township and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
   COUNTY. Camden County, New Jersey.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of New Jersey.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TOWNSHIP, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or  MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Voorhees,
Camden County, New Jersey.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:   (N.J.S.A. 47:1A-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see N.J.S.A.
47:1A-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the township published in 1974 and subsequently amended, the 1974
code section number shall be indicated in the history.
Example:   ('74 Code, § 19-2)
ADOPTION OF CODE BY TOWNSHIP COMMITTEE
§ 10.25 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:49-4, the ordinances of the Township of Voorhees, of
a general and permanent nature, adopted by the Township Committee of the
Township of Voorhees, as revised, codified and consolidated into chapters and
sections, are hereby approved, adopted, ordained and enacted as the “Code of
the Township of Voorhees,” hereinafter known and referred to as the “Code.”
§ 10.26 CODE SUPERSEDES PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   This Code shall supersede all other general and permanent ordinances enacted
prior to the enactment of this Code, except such ordinances as are hereinafter
expressly saved from repeal or continued in force.
§ 10.27 COPY OF CODE ON FILE.
   A copy of the Code in loose-leaf form has been filed in the office of the
Township Clerk and shall remain there for the use and examination by the public
until final action is taken on this ordinance; and, if this ordinance shall be
adopted, such copy shall be certified to by the Township Clerk of the Township
of Voorhees by impressing thereon the seal of the township, as provided by law,
and such certified copy shall remain on file in the office of the Township
Clerk, to be made available to persons desiring to examine the same during all
times while the said Code is in effect.
§ 10.28 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   Any and all additions, amendments or supplements to the Code, when passed
and adopted in such form as to indicate the intent of the governing body to
make them a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into such Code so
that reference to the “Code of the Township of Voorhees” shall be understood
and intended to include such additions and amendments. Whenever such additions,
amendments or supplements to the Code shall be adopted, they shall thereafter
be printed and, as provided hereunder, inserted in the loose-leaf book
containing the Code, as amendments and supplements thereto.
§ 10.29 PUBLICATION; FILING.
   The Clerk, pursuant to law, shall cause to be published, in the manner
required, a copy of this adopting ordinance in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Township. Sufficient copies of the Code shall be maintained
in the office of the Township Clerk for inspection by the public at all times
during regular office hours. The enactment and publication of this adopting
ordinance, coupled with availability of copies of the Code for inspection by
the public, shall be deemed, held and considered to be due and legal
publication of all provisions of the Code for all purposes.
§ 10.30 CODE BOOK TO BE KEPT UP-TO-DATE.
   It shall be the duty of the Township Clerk, or someone authorized and
directed by him, to keep up-to-date the certified copy of the book containing
the Code required to be filed in his office for the use of the public. All
changes in said Code and all ordinances adopted subsequent to the effective
date of this codification, which shall be adopted specifically as part of the
Code, shall, when finally adopted, be included therein by reference until such
changes or new ordinances are printed as supplements to said Code book, at
which time such supplements shall be inserted therein.
§ 10.31 SALE OF CODE BOOK.
   Copies of the Code book containing the Code may be purchased from the
Township Clerk upon the payment of a fee to be set by resolution of the
Township Committee, who may also arrange, by resolution, for procedures for the
periodic supplementation thereof.
§ 10.32 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the Code, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever, which will cause the law of the Township of
Voorhees to be misrepresented thereby. Anyone violating this section of this
ordinance shall be subject, upon conviction, to a penalty as set forth in §
10.99.
§ 10.33 SEVERABILITY OF CODE PROVISIONS.
   Each section of the Code, and every part of each section, is an independent
section or part of a section, and the holding of any section or a part thereof
to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause shall not be deemed
to affect the validity or constitutionality of any other sections or parts
thereof.
§ 10.34 SEVERABILITY OF ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   Each section of this ordinance is an independent section, and the holding of
any section or part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any
cause shall not be deemed to affect the validity or constitutionality of any
other sections or parts thereof.
§ 10.35 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances of a general and permanent nature,
adopted and in force on the date of the adoption of this ordinance and not
contained in the Code, are hereby repealed as of the effective date of this
adopting ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
§ 10.36 ORDINANCES SAVED FROM REPEAL.
   The adoption of this Code and the repeal of ordinances provided for in §
10.35 shall not affect the following ordinances, rights and obligations, which
are hereby expressly saved from repeal.
   (A)   Any ordinance adopted subsequent to September 9, 1998.
   (B)   Any right or liability established, accrued or incurred under any
legislative provision prior to the effective date of this ordinance, or any
action or proceeding brought for the enforcement of such right or liability.
   (C)   Any offense or act committed or done before the effective date of this
ordinance in violation of any legislative provision, or any penalty, punishment
or forfeiture which may result therefrom.
   (D)   Any prosecution, indictment, action, suit or other proceeding pending,
or any judgment rendered, prior to the effective date of this ordinance,
brought pursuant to any legislative provision.
   (E)   Any franchise, license, right, easement or privilege heretofore
granted or conferred.
   (F)   Any ordinance providing for the laying out, opening, altering,
widening, relocating, straightening, establishing grade, changing name,
improvement, acceptance or vacation of any right-of-way, easement, street,
road, highway, park or other public place, or any portion thereof.
   (G)   Any ordinance or resolution appropriating money or transferring funds,
promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance and
delivery of any bond or other instruments or evidence of the borough's
indebtedness.
   (H)   Ordinances authorizing the purchase, sale, lease or transfer of
property, or any lawful contract or obligation.
   (I)   The levy or imposition of taxes, assessments or charges.
   (J)   The dedication of property or approval of preliminary or final
subdivision plots.
   (K)   Ordinances establishing the amount and manner of payment of salaries
or compensation of officers and employees; establishing workdays and working
hours of certain employees; and providing for holidays and vacations for
employees and keeping of employment records.
   (L)   Any ordinance making any change or revision in the zoning map.
   (M)   Any ordinance regulating traffic or parking.
   (N)   An ordinance adopted 5-20-01, granting a franchise to the Eastern
Telephone and Telegraph Company, as well as an ordinance adopted 3-18-03
granting said company the right to string wires, etc.
   (O)   An ordinance adopted 3-18-03, granting a franchise to the Delaware and
Atlantic Telephone and Telegraph Company.
   (P)   An ordinance adopted 2-19-30, establishing two election districts.
   (Q)   An ordinance adopted 3-23-60, granting a franchise to the Lakeside
Park Water Company.
§ 10.37 CHANGES IN PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ORDINANCES.
   In compiling and preparing the ordinances for adoption and revision as part
of the Code pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:49-4, certain grammatical changes and other
minor changes were made in one or more of said ordinances. It is the intention
of the Township Committee that all such changes be adopted as part of the Code
as if the ordinances so changed had been previously formally amended to read as
such.
('74 Code, § 1-14) (Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating, or failing to comply with, any of the provisions of
this code, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the judge. The continuation of such
violation for each successive day shall constitute a separate offense, and the
person or persons allowing or permitting the continuation of the violation may
be punished as provided above for each separate offense.
(Ord. 929-99, passed 4-12-99; Am. Ord. 331-18, passed 8-13-18)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
      
30.     TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
      
31.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
31A.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
32.   OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
34A.   BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
      
34B.   TAX ABATEMENT
      
35.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
36.   FEES
      
37.   ETHICS
      
38.   TOWNSHIP POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS
Section
Municipal Administrator
   
30.001   Creation of office
   
30.002   Appointment; removal; vacancy
   
30.003   Qualifications; residential requirements
   
30.004   Compensation
   
30.005   Powers and duties
   
30.006   Limitation of duties
Township Attorney
   
30.020   Position created
   
30.021   Appointment; term
Special Counsel
   
30.030   Appointment
   
30.031   Duties and responsibilities
Deputy Municipal Clerk
   
30.035   Creation of office
   
30.036   Appointment; term
   
30.037   Compensation
   
30.038   Absence or disability of Clerk
Code Enforcement Officer
   
30.050   Position created
   
30.051   Appointment; term
   
30.052   Duties
   
30.053   Qualifications
   
30.054   Hours; compensation
Construction Official
   
30.065   Position created; subcode officials
   
30.066   Issuance of permits; Construction Board of Appeals
   
30.067   Duties and powers; certification
Director of Community Development
   
30.080   Position created
   
30.081   Powers and duties
Township Engineer
   
30.095   Position created
   
30.096   Term
Chief Financial Officer
   
30.110   Position established
   
30.111   Appointment
   
30.112   Duties and responsibilities
Aide to the Mayor
   
30.120   Position created
   
30.121   Powers and duties
   
30.122   Compensation; full or part-time
Cross-reference:
   Indemnification for legal liabilities and expenses, see §
38.20
MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.001 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The office of Municipal Administrator is hereby created in and for the
township pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. passed 1-23-73)
§ 30.002 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL; VACANCY.
   (A)   The Municipal Administrator shall be appointed by the Township
Committee, and the term of office of the Municipal Administrator shall be at
the pleasure of the Township Committee.
   (B)   Any vacancy in said office shall be filled by appointment of the
Township Committee.
   (C)   During the absence or disability of the duly appointed Municipal
Administrator, the Township Committee may by resolution appoint an officer or
regular employee of the municipality to perform the duties of the Municipal
Administrator during such absence or disability. Such absence or disability
shall be limited to three months after which time such absence or disability
may be deemed a vacancy.
   (D)   The Municipal Administrator may be removed by a two-thirds vote of the
Township Committee. The resolution of removal shall become effective three
months after its adoption by the Township Committee. The Township Committee may
provide that the resolution shall have immediate effect; provided, however,
that the Township Committee shall cause to be paid to the Administrator
forthwith any unpaid balances of his salary and his salary for the next three
calendar months following adoption of the resolution.
('74 Code, § 3-2) (Ord. passed 1-23-73)
§ 30.003 QUALIFICATIONS; RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Municipal Administrator shall be chosen on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to actual
training or experience in governmental affairs, and educational experience and
training.
   (B)   The Municipal Administrator must be a resident of the state.
('74 Code, § 3-3) (Ord. passed 1-23-73; Am. Ord. 64-1978, passed 6-26-78)
§ 30.004 COMPENSATION.
   The Municipal Administrator shall receive as salary such sums as may be
fixed and adopted by the Township Committee in the annual salary ordinance of
the township. He shall be reimbursed all reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of his position. He shall be required to utilize sufficient time as
determined by the Township Committee to provide the services set forth herein.
('74 Code, § 3-4) (Ord. passed 1-23-73)
Cross-reference:
   Salaries and compensation, see §
35.06
§ 30.005 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Administrator, in addition to the powers and duties
hereinafter set forth, shall have the powers and duties prescribed by the laws
of the state, the ordinances of the township and such other additional powers
and duties as may be from time to time prescribed or directed by the Township
Committee. Excepted, however, are those powers or duties required by law to be
exercised by the governing body itself or by another officer, board or body.
The Municipal Administrator shall be responsible, generally to the Township
Committee for the proper administration of all the affairs of the municipality,
and to that end:
   (A)   He shall supervise and direct the business activities of all municipal
departments, including the direction of central purchasing and the employment
and replacement of personnel as may be required in the departments.
   (B)   He shall serve as the Personnel Officer of the township, and as such
recommend the hiring and promotion of township employees subsequent to
satisfactory completion of the probationary period and to advance said
employees or employee to the next step; and when he deems it necessary or
advisable for the betterment of the township, he shall recommend the suspension
or discharge of employees.
   (C)   He shall prepare and submit to the Township Committee before the close
of the fiscal year, or on such alternate date as the Township Committee shall
determine, a proposed budget for the next fiscal year and an explanatory budget
message. In preparing the proposed budget, the Municipal Administrator shall
obtain from the head of each department, agency, board or officer estimates of
revenues and expenditures and other supporting data as he requests. The
Municipal Administrator shall review such estimates and may revise them before
submitting the proposed budget with the estimates of each department and
revisions thereto to the Township Committee.
   (D)   He shall be responsible for the administration of the budget after its
adoption by the Township Committee and the implementation of the work programs
contained in the budget.
   (E)   He shall execute and enforce the laws of the state and ordinances and
resolutions of the township as the Township Committee may prescribe.
   (F)   He shall attend all meetings of the Township Committee and other
committees as directed and he shall receive notice of all regular and special
meetings of the Township Committee and all advisory committees.
   (G)   He shall draft the agenda for each meeting of the Township Committee
and supply facts pertinent thereto.
   (H)   He shall keep the Township Committee informed as to the conduct of the
township affairs, submit periodic reports, either in writing or orally, on the
condition of the township finances, and such other reports, either in writing
or orally, as the Township Committee shall request, and shall make such
recommendations to the Township Committee as he deems necessary and advisable
for the welfare and future needs of the township.
   (I)   He shall submit to the Township Committee, as soon as possible after
the close of the fiscal year, a complete written report on the administrative
and fiscal activities of the township for the preceding year, as well as all
recommendations regarding the improvement of said activities.
   (J)   He shall see that the provisions of all franchises, leases, permits
and privileges granted by the township are complied with.
   (K)   He may recommend the employment of experts and consultants to perform
work and render advice in connection with the operation of the utilities or
work projects in the township subject to approval by the Township Committee.
   (L)   He shall supervise the performance and faithful execution of township
contracts except insofar as such duties are expressly imposed upon some other
township officer or official by statute.
   (M)   He shall see that all money owed the township is promptly paid and
that proper proceedings are taken for the security and collection of all the
township's claims except as such duties are imposed on other officials by law.
   (N)   He may be required by the Township Committee to review and recommend
bills and vouchers for payment prior to final approval by the Township
Committee.
   (O)   He shall receive copies of all general and official correspondence
addressed to the township and shall refer same to the appropriate officer or
department for disposition and reply.
   (P)   All complaints regarding services or personnel of the township shall
be referred to the office of the Municipal Administrator. He or an officer
designated by the Township Committee shall investigate and dispose of such
complaint, and the Municipal Administrator shall keep a written record of such
complaint and when and what action was taken in response thereto, and provide
to the Township Committee a copy thereof when requested to do so.
   (Q)   Whenever feasible, the Township Committee and its members shall deal
with the administrative employees through the Municipal Administrator.
   (R)   He shall maintain a continuing review and analysis of budget
operations, work programs and costs of municipal services.
   (S)   He shall at the request of the Township Committee inspect the duties
and responsibilities of any elected or appointed official and department of the
township, submitting his report relating thereto to the Township Committee for
such further action as the Township Committee may deem advisable in such
instance.
   (T)   He shall keep the Township Committeemen informed as to federal aid
projects and state aid projects and any other aid programs for which the
township may qualify.
   (U)   He shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Township
Committee in accordance with the law.
   (V)   Before separation from the township at the conclusion of his
employment and simultaneous with his receipt of separation pay from the
township, he shall submit a comprehensive report for the date of his last
report to the date of his separation.
('74 Code, § 3-5) (Ord. passed 1-23-73; Am. Ord. 64-1978, passed 6-26-78)
§ 30.006 LIMITATION OF DUTIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall derogate from or authorize the Municipal
Administrator to exercise the powers and duties of the elected and appointed
officials of the township.
('74 Code, § 3-6) (Ord. passed 1-23-73)
TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
§ 30.020 POSITION CREATED.
   There is hereby created for the township the position of Township Attorney.
('74 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 9-1975, passed 6-9-75)
§ 30.021 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Township Attorney shall be appointed for the term of one year.
('74 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 9-1975, passed 6-9-75)
SPECIAL COUNSEL
§ 30.030 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   If the Township Solicitor should be conflicted with respect to any
matter, the governing body may duly appoint special counsel, from time to time,
to represent the township with respect to such matters, within available
appropriations.
   (B)   Under such circumstances, the Township Administrator shall have the
authority, subject to the approval of the Township Committee, to assign and
engage additional or special counsel, to aid in the performance of the
functions of the township legal matters including the preparation, trial or
appeal of the cases in which the township may be a party or be interested, as
he or she may deem necessary. A form of contract shall be prepared by the
Township Solicitor, prior to the engagement of special counsel, setting forth
the terms and conditions of employment and shall include a schedule of
compensation as well as the obligation to provide periodic and/or interim
status reports to enable the Township Committee to remain current with respect
to the status of any legal matter so assigned.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be intended to confer an obligation to select
special counsel for insurance related matters where the township’s insurance
carrier has reserved the right to select appropriate counsel.
(Ord. 225-13, passed 2-11-13)
§ 30.031 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Unless emergency circumstances otherwise require, special counsel
shall, with respect to any ongoing litigation matter, obtain the approval of
the Township Committee prior to the filing of any substantive pleading on the
township’s behalf in any such litigation.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a PLEADING shall include but shall
not be limited to: the complaint, the answer, a counterclaim, and/or any
dispositive motions or motions requesting monetary or injunctive relief and/or
damages.
(Ord. 225-13, passed 2-11-13)
DEPUTY MUNICIPAL CLERK
§ 30.035 CREATION OF OFFICE.
   The office of Deputy Municipal Clerk is hereby created for the township.
('74 Code, § 6A-1) (Ord. 150-1981, passed 3-9-81)
§ 30.036 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Deputy Municipal Clerk shall be appointed by the Township Committee and
shall serve until such time as his/her replacement is appointed by the
Township.
('74 Code, § 6A-2) (Ord. 150-1981, passed 3-9-81)
§ 30.037 COMPENSATION.
   The Deputy Municipal Clerk shall receive as salary such sums as may be fixed
and adopted by the Township Committee in the annual salary ordinance.
('74 Code, § 6A-1) (Ord. 150-1981, passed 3-9-81)
§ 30.038 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CLERK.
   During the absence or disability of the Township Clerk the Deputy Municipal
Clerk shall have all the powers of the Township Clerk and shall perform the
functions and duties of such office.
('74 Code, § 6A-4) (Ord. 150-1981, passed 3-9-81)
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
§ 30.050 POSITION CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Code Enforcement Officer in the
Township of Voorhees, County of Camden, State of New Jersey.
('74 Code, § 4A-1) (Ord. 15-1973, passed 7-24-73)
§ 30.051 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Code Enforcement Officer may be appointed each year at the organization
meeting of the Township Committee or any subsequent meeting thereof, and the
appointment shall expire at the end of the calendar year wherein the
appointment was accomplished or when a successor is duly appointed and
qualified, whichever is the latter. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the majority of the members of the
Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 4A-2) (Ord. 15-1973, passed 7-24-73)
§ 30.052 DUTIES.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall perform various types of field and office
services under the direction of superior officials of the township to maintain
a high standard of compliance with municipal ordinances regarding the
utilization of lands and premises within the township. He shall conduct
inspections and develop factual information to provide for the compliance and
enforcement of municipal ordinances. He shall prepare reports, as well as
maintain records, which will assist in the enforcement and promulgation of
municipal ordinances, as well as provide such other related activities as
required by members of the Township Committee or other superior officials of
the township.
('74 Code, § 4A-3) (Ord. 15-1973, passed 7-24-73)
§ 30.053 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The person appointed as Code Enforcement Officer shall be able to read,
write, speak and understand the English language and shall have at least two
years of full-time experience in the general inspection of lands and premises
or two years of full-time experience in law enforcement activities or any
combination thereof.
('74 Code, § 4A-4) (Ord. 15-1973, passed 7-24-73)
§ 30.054 HOURS; COMPENSATION.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall provide the necessary hours per week
requested by the Township Committee. The compensation per hour shall be as
fixed by ordinance of the Township Committee. The Township Committee may by
ordinance change the hourly rate of compensation from time to time as the
Township Committee deems necessary.
('74 Code, § 4A-5) (Ord. 15-1973, passed 7-24-73; Am. Ord. 12-1976, passed 8-9-
76)
CONSTRUCTION OFFICIAL
§ 30.065 POSITION CREATED; SUBCODE OFFICIALS.
   There shall be created the position of Construction Official, who shall be
licensed under and who is to be the chief administrator and shall supervise the
daily operations and administrations of the New Jersey Uniform Construction
Code. The Construction Official may be assisted by subcode officials and
inspectors, both of whom must be licensed by the State of New Jersey.
('74 Code, § 4B-1) (Ord. 16-1976, passed 11-22-76)
Statutory reference:
   State Uniform Construction Code Act, see N.J.S.A. 52:27D-119 et seq.
§ 30.066 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Construction Official or his designated agent will issue all permits
pursuant to the Uniform Construction Code. All decisions of the Construction
Official shall be appealable to a County Construction Board of Appeals,
pursuant to the procedures under the Code.
('74 Code, § 4B-2) (Ord. 16-1976, passed 11-22-76)
Cross-reference:
   Construction code enforcement fees, see
Ch. 150
§ 30.067 DUTIES AND POWERS; CERTIFICATION.
   The duties and powers of the Construction Official shall be as set forth in
the Code and in any rules and regulations established by the Department of
Community Affairs.
('74 Code, § 4B-4) (Ord. 16-1976, passed 11-22-76)
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
§ 30.080 POSITION CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Director of Community Development.
('74 Code, § 4C-1) (Ord. 525-1990, passed 2-27-90)
§ 30.081 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of Community Development shall supervise and direct the
planning activities of the following departments: Planning, Zoning, Code
Enforcement, Housing, Building and Engineering. However, interpretation of the
Zoning Ordinance (Chapter 158 of this code) and the State Uniform Construction
Code Act shall be the sole responsibility of the Zoning Officer and the
Construction Official, respectively, as set forth in the Municipal Land Use Law
of New Jersey and §§ 30.065 through 30.067 of this code. The Director of
Community Development shall also be responsible for coordination among the
above departments.
   (B)   The Director shall act as coordinator with the consulting engineer for
the township on all planning and development proposals, whether generated by
private landowners or by municipal agencies.
   (C)   The Director shall attend all Planning Board meetings or delegate a
responsible staff person to do so in the Director's absence.
   (D)   The Director shall be responsible for staff attendance at meetings of
the Environmental Advisory Board, the site Plan Advisory Board and the Shade
Tree Committee.
   (E)   The Director shall be responsible for coordinating the activities of
the township staff in putting together the draft six-year capital improvement
program for submission to the Planning Board, as set forth in Article 4,
Capital Improvements Program and Project Review, of the New Jersey Municipal
Land Use Law.
   (F)   The Director shall have such other powers and duties as may be from
time to time prescribed or directed by the Township Committee.
   (G)   The Director of Community Development shall be responsible to the
Township Administrator for the proper administration of those duties listed in
divisions (A) through (F) of this section.
('74 Code, § 4C-2) (Ord. 525-1990, passed 2-27-90)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned property list, see §
161.04
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Land Use Law, see N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.
   State Uniform Construction Code Act, see N.J.S.A. 52:27D-119 et seq.
TOWNSHIP ENGINEER
§ 30.095 POSITION CREATED.
   The office of the Township Engineer is hereby created.
('74 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. 8-1975, passed 5-27-75)
§ 30.096 TERM.
   The term of office for any person or firm appointed under this subchapter
shall be limited to one year.
('74 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 8-1975, passed 5-27-75)
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
§ 30.110 POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Chief Financial Officer is hereby established, with the
salary for that position in accordance with the salary ordinance as adopted and
amended.
('74 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 277-1985, passed 7-8-85; Am. Ord. 441-1989, passed 3-
13-89)
§ 30.111 APPOINTMENT.
   The appointment to the position of Chief Financial Officer shall be made by
the Township Committee in accordance with the State Civil Service Rules and
Regulations as governing the township and in accordance with the provisions of
N.J.S.A. 40A:9-140 et seq.
('74 Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 277-1985, passed 7-8-85; Am. Ord. 441-1989, passed 3-
13-89)
§ 30.112 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Chief Financial Officer shall carry out the duties and responsibilities
as set forth under N.J.S.A. 52:27BB-26 et seq.
('74 Code, § 10-3) (Ord. 277-1985, passed 7-8-85; Am. Ord. 441-1989, passed 3-
13-89)
AIDE TO THE MAYOR
§ 30.120 POSITION CREATED.
   There is hereby created the administrative position of Aide to the Mayor.
(Ord. 871-98, passed 5-1-98)
§ 30.121 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Aide to the Mayor shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Act as chairperson on the Township Marketing Council, with all duties
and powers incidental to the position of chairperson to an appointed board;
   (B)   Establish, maintain, upgrade and implement the Township WEB site,
internet access and other marketing and information medium to promote the
Township; and
   (C)   Such other powers and duties as, from time to time, may be prescribed
or directed by the Mayor or the Township Committee.
(Ord. 871-98, passed 5-1-98)
§ 30.122 COMPENSATION; FULL OR PART- TIME.
   The Aide to the Mayor shall be compensated for the performance of his or her
duties pursuant to this subchapter as is determined from time to time by
ordinance adopted by the Township Committee in accordance with Department of
Personnel rules and regulations. The position of Aide to the Mayor may be
either a full-time or part-time position as the Township Committee shall
determine.
(Ord. 871-98, passed 5-1-98)
CHAPTER 31: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
31.01   Establishment; membership
   
31.02   Designation of appropriate authority
   
31.03   Chief of Police; powers and duties
   
31.04   Appointment of officers
   
31.05   Qualifications
   
31.06   Probationary period
   
31.07   Disciplinary action
   
31.08   Oath of office
   
31.09   Hours of duty
   
31.10   Powers and duties
   
31.11   Special law enforcement officers
   
31.12   Compensation
   
31.13   Rules and regulations; acquisition of equipment
   
31.14   Director of Public Safety
   
31.15   Vacations
Cross-reference:
   Indemnification for legal liabilities and expenses, see §
38.20
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established in and for the Township a Police Department
which shall consist of a Chief of Police and such members and officers as shall
be deemed necessary by the Township Committee, which, from time to time, shall
determine the number of persons, including temporary officers and members in an
emergency, to be appointed to these positions, together with their
compensation.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.02 DESIGNATION OF APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY.
   The Director of Public Safety, who shall be a member of the Township
Committee, shall be designated as the appropriate authority as provided in the
state statutes, N.J.S.A. 40A:14-118. The Director of Public Safely shall be
responsible for the overall performance of the Police Department. The Township
Committee, with the recommendation and input of the Director of Public Safety
and the Chief of Police, shall adopt and promulgate rules and regulations for
the government of the Police Department and for the discipline of its members.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.03 CHIEF OF POLICE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be the head of the Police Department and
shall be directly responsible to the Township Committee for the Police
Department's efficiency and day-to-day operations.
   (B)   Pursuant to policies established by the Township Committee, the Chief
of Police shall:
      (1)   Administer and enforce rules and regulations of the Police
Department and any special emergency directive for the disposition and
discipline of the Department and its members;
      (2)   Have, exercise and discharge the functions, powers and duties of
the Police Department;
      (3)   Prescribe the duties and assignments of all members and officers;
      (4)   Delegate such authority as may be deemed necessary for the
efficient operation of the Police Department to be exercised under the Chief's
direction and supervision; and
      (5)   Report at least monthly to the Director of Public Safety in such
form as shall be prescribed on the operation of the Police Department during
the preceding month and make such other reports as may be requested by the
Director of Public Safety.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.04 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   All members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the Township
Committee in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40A:14-118 et seq., N.J.A.C. 4A:1 et seq.
and the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.05 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Each member and officer shall be a citizen of the United States, be of
good moral character, sound in body and in good health and be able to read,
write and speak the English language well and intelligently. In addition, every
member and officer shall be a high school graduate and shall comply with all
eligibility requirements as set forth in the laws of the state of New Jersey.
No person shall be appointed to the police force who has not been a resident of
the state of New Jersey for at least six months prior to the date of
appointment.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed or retained as an officer or member of
the Police Department who has been convicted of a crime constituting an
indictable offense or one involving moral turpitude or who is not within the
age limits as specified by law. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prohibit the continuance in office or employment of any person who was employed
by the Township in the capacity of a policeman at the time of the adoption of
Ordinance No. 860 in 1998.
   (C)   No person shall be given a permanent appointment as an officer or
member of the Police Department unless he or she has passed a medical and
psychological examination; and he or she has received a certificate of
completion from a certified police training academy within the state in
accordance with the laws of the state.
   (D)   Appointees to police officer positions must be residents of the
Township.
   (E)   Candidates for open competitive examinations must be residents of the
Township as of the announced closing date of the examination.
   (F)   Candidates for a position as police officer must maintain continuous
residency in the Township from the announced closing date of the examination up
to and including the date of appointment.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.06 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Each person appointed as an officer to the Department shall first serve a
probationary period of 12 months from the date of receipt of written
certification by a certified police training academy within the state. During
the probationary period, he or she shall be known as a “probationary officer.”
At the termination of the probationary period, the appointment as an officer
shall become final upon the recommendation of the Police Chief and the consent
of the Director of Public Safety. However, the Township Committee, for good
cause shown, by resolution, may waive the probationary period or any part
thereof for any appointee who has had previous experience as a police officer
and who otherwise meets the qualifications as set forth in this chapter and the
laws of the state.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.07 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Disciplinary action shall be taken against members of the Police Department
in accordance with N.J.A.C. 4A:2 et seq. and the rules and regulations adopted
by resolution pursuant to §
31.13.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.08 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office and within five days
after appointment, each member of the Police Department shall take and
subscribe an oath or affirmation to faithfully and impartially discharge the
duties of his or her appointment as a member of the Police Department and in
accordance with the statutes of the state relating to the oath to be taken.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.09 HOURS OF DUTY.
   (A)   Each member of the Police Department shall devote his or her entire
time and attention to the duties of the Department, subject to the laws of the
state, the rules and regulations adopted by resolution pursuant to §
31.13 and the applicable employment contract then in force with the Township,
with respect to the number of days per week and the number of hours per day
such members shall be and remain on duty.
   (B)   No member of the Police Department shall work or render services for
any wage salary or other compensation, other than for the Police Department,
unless he or she first obtains written approval therefor from the Chief, which
approval shall be granted only when the Chief is reasonably certain that such
work or services shall not be hazardous or hamper the proper and efficient
performances of his or her official police duties.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.10 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The powers and duties of the officers and members of the Police
Department shall be as prescribed by the laws of the state, the ordinances and
resolutions of the Township and such rules and regulations as may now or
hereafter be adopted for the government and discipline of the Department. All
members of the Department shall have the power to serve and execute all
processes issued by the Municipal Judge of the Township and in accordance with
the laws of the state.
   (B)   The members of the Police Department shall have the power to serve all
summonses issued by any Township official pursuant to any provision of the
Township Code or any statute of the state. Whenever possible and only if no
threat to the safety of such officer exists, the member of the Police
Department serving such summonses shall be a special officer assigned to such
duty and who normally carry a service weapon.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.11 SPECIAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Township Committee may appoint from time to time special law
enforcement officers in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40A:14-146 et seq., for terms
not exceeding one year. Such special law enforcement officers shall possess and
exercise all the powers and duties provided by these statutes during their term
in office, but shall not be members of the Police Department and shall not be
entitled to tenure. The Chief of Police may authorize special law enforcement
officers when on duty to exercise the same powers and authority as regular
members of the Police Department, including the carrying of firearms and the
power of arrest. Any such appointment of special law enforcement officers shall
be revoked at any time without cause and without hearing, if the original
appointment was for four months or less, otherwise, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:
14-146.14, with cause and after a hearing.
   (B)   There shall be two classifications of special officers. The New Jersey
State Police Training Commission shall prescribe by rule or regulation the
training standards to be established for each classification. The
classifications shall be based on the duties to be performed by the special law
enforcement officer, as follows:
      (1)   Class One. Officers of this class shall be authorized to perform
routine traffic detail, spectator control and similar duties. Class One
officers shall have the power to issue summonses for disorderly persons and
petty disorderly persons offenses, violations of Township ordinances and
violations of N.J.S.A. Title 39. The use of a firearm by an officer of this
class shall be strictly prohibited. No Class One officer shall be assigned any
duties which may require the carrying or use of a firearm.
      (2)   Class Two. Officers of this class shall be authorized to exercise
full powers and duties similar to those of a permanent, regularly appointed
full-time police officer. The use of a firearm by an officer of this class may
be authorized only after the officer has been fully certified as successfully
completing training as prescribed by the New Jersey State Police Training
Commission.
   (C)   No person may be appointed as a special law enforcement officer unless
the person:
      (1)   Is able to read, write and speak the English language well and
intelligently and has a high school diploma or its equivalent;
      (2)   Is sound in body and of good health;
      (3)   Is of good moral character;
      (4)   Has not been convicted of any offense involving dishonesty or which
would make him unfit to perform the duties of his or her office; and
      (5)   Has successfully undergone the same psychological testing that is
required of all full-time police officers in the Township.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98; Am. Ord. 933-99, passed 4-26-99)
§ 31.12 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Chief of Police and members of the Police Department
shall be determined by the Township Committee by ordinance. Such compensation
shall be pursuant to contract in such amount or amounts as shall be negotiated
between the individuals involved or their representative and approved as part
of the Township budget. Salaries and compensation of special police officers
shall be determined by the Township Committee by ordinance.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS; ACQUISITION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Township Committee may prescribe and establish such rules and
regulations respecting the Department and its operation and make provisions for
the acquisition of such apparatus, equipment and vehicles as it may deem
necessary or useful for the Police Department, upon the recommendation of the
Chief of Police and the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The Township Committee shall, by ordinance, from time to time in its
judgment as may seem necessary, adopt and amend the rules and regulations for
the government and discipline of the Police Department and members thereof. The
rules and regulations may fix and provide for the enforcement of such rules and
regulations and the enforcement penalties for the violation of such rules and
regulations, and all members of the Police Department shall be subject to such
rules and regulations.
   (C)   There is hereby adopted by the Township, for the purposes of
establishing rules and regulations for the operation and government of the
Police Department, an updated manual entitled “Voorhees Township Department
Rules and Regulations.” The aforesaid manual is incorporated by reference in
this section, and three copies of the manual are on file in the office of the
Clerk.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98; Am. Ord. 6-01, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 17-01,
passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 299-17, passed 3-27-17)
§ 31.14 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   The appropriate authority for the Police Department shall be the
Director of Public Safety, who shall be a member of the Township Committee. The
Director of Public Safety shall be directly responsible for the conduct of the
Police Department, and in his or her absence or disability the Township
Committee as a body will assume this responsibility and exercise the powers and
duties prescribed for the Director of Public Safety. The Township Committee
shall adopt the rules, regulations and orders necessary to perform the duties
of Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Obedience to the orders of the Township Committee and Director of
Public Safety shall be required from the Police Chief and every other member of
the Police Department. The Director of Public Safety shall be responsible for
the proper police conduct of the Department and the efficient and effective
operation thereof, and shall be obligated to ensure that the Police Department
enforces all of the laws of the state and ordinances of the Township.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, with the approval of the Director of Public
Safety (except with respect to the Chief, which relief from duty shall be
ordered by the Director of Public Safety individually), shall have the power to
relieve from duty any member of the Police Department for the violation of any
section of this chapter or any rule governing the Police Department until the
complaint and charge against such member shall be disposed of as provided in
the rules and regulations.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 31.15 VACATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in any written employment or collective
bargaining agreement or contract approved by the Township Committee, there is
hereby established a vacation schedule as follows:
   (A)   After completion of a 12 month period, all full-time employees of the
Police Department shall be entitled to a one-week vacation;
   (B)   After completion of two years of service and up to ten years of
service, all full-time patrol officers shall be entitled to two weeks'
vacation;
   (C)   After completion of ten years of service and up to 15 years of
service, all full-time patrol officers shall be entitled to three weeks'
vacation; and
   (D)   After completion of 15 years of service, all full-time patrol officers
shall be entitled to four weeks' vacation.
(Ord. 860-98, passed 2-9-98)
CHAPTER 31A: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Fire Department
   
31A.01   Establishment
   
31A.02   Mission statement
Paid Members of the Fire Department
   
31A.15   Qualifications
   
31A.16   Officers
   
31A.17   Duties of Township Fire and Emergency Services Director
   
31A.18   Duties of other officers
   
31A.19   Appointment of firefighters and EMS providers
   
31A.20   Continuance of service
   
31A.21   Priority of eligibility for initial appointment
   
31A.22   Residency requirement for paid members
   
31A.23   Age requirement for paid members
   
31A.24   Promotions of paid members
   
31A.25   Probationary period
   
31A.26   Disciplinary action
   
31A.27   Hours of duties of paid members
   
31A.28   Compensation
Volunteer Members of the Fire Department
   
31A.40   Officers
   
31A.41   Members
   
31A.42   Continuance of service
   
31A.43   Qualifications
   
31A.44   Membership application; approval
   
31A.45   Membership roll; identification
   
31A.46   Probationary period
   
31A.47   Disciplinary action
   
31A.48   Charges involving moral turpitude, neglect of duty or insubordination;
appeals
   
31A.49   Monthly stipend
   
31A.50   Construal of payments
   
31A.51   Yearly clothing allowance
   
31A.52   LOSAP
   
31A.53   Life insurance policy
   
31A.54   Verification of attendance
   
31A.55   Execution of waivers
General Provisions Applicable to Paid and Volunteer Members
   
31A.70   Oath of office
   
31A.71   Powers and duties
   
31A.72   Alarms
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31A.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby authorized and established in and for the township the
Voorhees Township Fire Department which shall consist of such officers,
firefighters and emergency medical service (“EMS”) providers as hereinafter
prescribed.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.02 MISSION STATEMENT.
   The Township Fire Department is committed to exceeding the expectations of
the community it serves while providing professional firefighting and emergency
medical services and creating a safe environment through public education.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
PAID MEMBERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31A.15 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Qualifications for paid members of the Fire Department shall be as set forth
in N.J.S.A. 40A:14-9.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.16 OFFICERS.
   The Fire Department officers shall consist of the Township Fire and
Emergency Services Director as set forth in Ordinance No. 296-17 of the
township for a period as determined by the Mayor and Township Committee and
thereafter shall consist of a Fire Chief, two Deputy Fire Chiefs, three
Battalion Fire Chiefs, and six Fire Captains. The terms of office shall be as
set forth in N.J.S.A. 40A:14-17.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.17 DUTIES OF TOWNSHIP FIRE AND EMERGENCY SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   The duties of the Township Fire and Emergency Services Director shall be as
set forth in Ordinance No. 296-17 of the township and as set forth in §
31A.18(A).
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.18 DUTIES OF OTHER OFFICERS.
   (A)   Duties of the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall be the head of the
Township Fire Department and shall be directly responsible to the Township
Committee for the Fire Department’s efficiency and day-to-day operations.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall at the scene of a fire or rescue call, or
otherwise have sole and absolute control of and command at the exclusion of all
others in the Fire Department. He shall cause the arrangement of fire engineers
and placement of its apparatus at a fire and cause it to be used in such a
manner as will protect lives and property and extinguish most quickly and
effectively. He shall examine periodically the condition of the fire apparatus,
fire houses and all the property belonging to the Fire Department and shall
report the same in its condition to Township Committee in December of each year
which report shall be accompanied by a statement of the number of fire and
rescue calls that have occurred in the preceding year and the number of fires
attended by him or in his absence the Deputy Chief and such other information
necessary to advise Township Committee of the operation of the Fire Department.
      (2)   Pursuant to policies established by the Township Committee, the
Fire Chief shall:
         (a)   Have the general supervision of the Fire Department at all
times;
         (b)   Administer and enforce rules and regulations of the Fire
Department and any special emergency directors for the disposition and
discipline of the Fire Department and its members;
         (c)   Exercise and discharge the functions, powers and duties of the
Fire Department;
         (d)   Prescribe the duties and assignments of all members and
officers;
         (e)   Delegate such authority as may be deemed necessary for the
efficient operation of the Fire Department to be exercised under the Fire
Chief’s direction and supervision; and
         (f)   Report at least monthly to the Director of Public Safety in such
form as shall be prescribed on the operation of the Fire Department during the
preceding month and make such other reports as may be requested by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   Duties of the Deputy Chiefs. The Fire Department shall have such
number of Deputy Chiefs as determined by Township Committee. The Deputy Chiefs
shall be subordinate to the command of the Fire Chief. In the absence of the
Fire Chief, the Deputy Chief shall act as the Fire Chief. The duties of the
Deputy Chiefs are as follows:
      (1)   Assist the Chief with the duties and responsibilities as prescribed
above.
      (2)   Be responsible for the maintenance of all equipment and apparatus
and make recommendations to the Fire Chief for replacement.
      (3)   Assist the Fire Chief in preparing the annual operating and capital
improvement budget.
   (C)   Duties of the Battalion Chiefs. The Fire Department shall have such
number of Battalion Chiefs as determined by Township Committee. The Battalion
Chiefs shall be subordinate to the command of the Deputy Chief. The duties of
the Battalion Chiefs are as follows:
      (1)   The Battalion Chiefs, under the control of the Fire Chief, always
has charge of the department members and apparatus. He or she shall, under the
same supervision, direct the operation of the Captains of the Fire Department
in the performance of their duties and enforce the rules of the Fire Department
in accordance with the laws adopted by the Township Committee. He or she shall
see that all members are trained and equipped to perform their duties when
called upon. Upon returning to the headquarters, he or she shall see that the
roll is called, absentees noted and a written report of such promptly submitted
to the Fire Chief. He or she shall report to the Fire Chief all fires or alarms
of fires, using the form adopted for that purpose.
      (2)   He or she shall report all needed repairs to the Deputy Chief but
shall have no power to alter any of the apparatus without the permission of the
Fire Chief. At a fire, the position of the Battalion Chief shall be at the
Incident Command Post of the fire directing the members of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Duties of the Captains. The Fire Department shall have such number of
Captains as determined by Township Committee. The Captain shall be subordinate
to the command of the Battalion Chief. In the absence of the Battalion Chief,
the Captain shall act as the Battalion Chief. The duties of the Captain are as
follows:
      (1)   The Captains, under the control of the Battalion Chief, always has
charge of the department apparatus. He or she shall, under the same
supervision, direct the operation of the apparatus of the Fire Department in
the performance of their duties and enforce the rules of the Fire Department in
accordance with the laws adopted by the Township Committee. He or she shall see
that the apparatus is safely returned to the Fire Department headquarters, that
nothing has been lost or mislaid while responding to an alarm and that nothing
has been taken from the apparatus while at headquarters. He or she shall report
to the Battalion Chief all those who fail to respond when called upon to clean
apparatus or turn out for drill practice. He or she shall see that the
companies clean and replace in order all the apparatus belonging to it before
leaving the Fire Department. He or she shall require members to wash and hang
up the hose when dry to restore same to the apparatus. Upon returning to the
headquarters, he or she shall see that the roll is called, absentees noted and
a written report of such promptly submitted to the Battalion Chief. He or she
shall report to the Fire Chief all fires or alarms of fires, using the form
adopted for that purpose, through the chain of command.
      (2)   He or she shall report all needed repairs to the Battalion Chief
but shall have no power to alter any of the apparatus without the permission of
the Fire Chief. At a fire, the position of the Captain shall be at the origin
of the fire, directing the members of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.19 APPOINTMENT OF FIREFIGHTERS AND EMS PROVIDERS.
   All paid members of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the Township
Committee in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40A:14-7 et seq., N.J.A.C. 4a:1 et seq.
and the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.20 CONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Any paid employees serving as a member in good standing of the now dissolved
Voorhees Fire District at the time of its dissolution shall continue to serve
in such position with the Township Fire Department subject to the terms of this
chapter, except with regard to any disciplinary matters that were pending by
the now dissolved Voorhees Fire District against such member.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.21 PRIORITY OF ELIGIBILITY FOR INITIAL APPOINTMENT.
   All paid positions of the Fire Department shall be filled in accordance with
the priority of eligibility set forth in N.J.S.A. 40A:14-10.1a.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.22 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR PAID MEMBERS.
   Residency requirements for appointments for paid members of the Fire
Department shall be in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40A:14-9.2.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.23 AGE REQUIREMENT FOR PAID MEMBERS.
   Age requirements for appointments for paid members of the Fire Department
shall be in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40A:14-12.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.24 PROMOTIONS OF PAID MEMBERS.
   The promotions of paid members of the Fire Department shall be in accordance
with N.J.S.A. 40A:14-9.4.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.25 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Each person appointed as a paid member of the Fire Department shall first
serve a probationary period of not less than one year from the date of
appointment. During the probationary period, he or she shall be designated as a
probationary member. At the termination of the probationary period, the
appointment of the member shall become final upon the recommendation of the
Fire Chief, as the case may be and the consent of the Director of Public
Safety. However, the Township Committee, for good cause shown, by resolution
may waive the probationary period or any part thereof for any appointee who has
had previous experience as a firefighter and who may otherwise meet the
qualifications as set forth in this chapter or the laws of the state.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.26 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Disciplinary action shall be taken against paid members of the Fire
Department in accordance with N.J.A.C. 4a:2 et seq. and the rules and
regulations adopted by Township Committee.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.27 HOURS OF DUTIES OF PAID MEMBERS.
   (A)   Each member of the Fire Department shall devote his or her entire time
and attention to the duties of the Fire Department, subject to the laws of this
state, the rules and regulations adopted by Township Committee and the
applicable employment contract or collective bargaining agreement then in force
with the township with respect to numbers and hours.
   (B)   No paid member of the Fire Department shall work or render services
for any wage salary or other compensation, other than for the Fire Department,
unless he or she first obtains written approval therefor from the Fire Chief,
which approval shall be granted only when the Fire Chief is reasonably certain
that such work or services shall not be hazardous or hamper the proper and
efficient performance of his or her official fire duties.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.28 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the paid Fire Chief, officers and members of the
Township Fire Department shall be determined by the Township Committee by
ordinance as applicable or pursuant to an employment agreement or collective
bargaining agreement negotiated between the township and officers or members,
as the case may be.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
VOLUNTEER MEMBERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31A.40 OFFICERS.
   The number of Volunteer Officers within the Department shall be proposed by
the Fire Chief and approved by Township Committee with the intention to meet
the needs of the Department.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.41 MEMBERS.
   There shall be such volunteer members of the Fire Department as approved by
the Fire Chief and subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.42 CONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Any volunteer serving as a member in good standing of the now dissolved
Voorhees Fire District at the time of its dissolution shall continue to serve
with the Township Fire Department subject to the terms of this chapter, except
with regard to any disciplinary matters that were pending by the now dissolved
Voorhees Fire District against such member.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.43 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No applicant shall be eligible to become a volunteer member of the Fire
Department unless such person shall possess the following qualifications:
   (A)   Be at least 18 years of age, unless said member is applying for a
Junior or Explorer position.
   (B)   Be a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   Satisfactorily complete a physical fitness performance test approved
by the Fire Department.
   (D)   Be physically fit to perform the duties of a firefighter, said fitness
to be evidenced by a certificate to that effect, made by a practicing physician
of the state approved by the Fire Department.
   (E)   Be subject to a criminal and motor vehicle record check.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.44 MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any applicant seeking to join the Fire Department shall make
application thereto.
   (B)   After application has been made, the applicant will follow the steps
prescribed by the Department’s policies.
   (C)   After completion of all the prescribed steps in the Department’s
policy, the name of the applicant shall be submitted to the Fire Chief for
approval. After approval by the Fire Chief, the name of the applicant shall be
presented to Township Committee for confirmation.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.45 MEMBERSHIP ROLL; IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The names of the volunteer officers and members shall be written upon
the membership roll maintained by the Township Clerk.
   (B)   Each volunteer officer and member shall be given a badge and photo
identification card as evidence of membership. The badge and photo
identification shall be surrendered to the Fire Chief when demanded or whenever
the member is under charges involving moral turpitude or negligent duty or, for
any cause, shall cease to be an active firefighter.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.46 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   Any volunteer shall be classified as a probationary member for a period of
not less than one year from appointment. During the probationary period he or
she shall be known as a probationary member. At the termination of the
probationary period, the appointment shall become final upon recommendation of
the Fire Chief with the consent of the Director of Public Safety. However, the
Township Committee, for good cause, by resolution may waive the probationary
period or any part thereof for any appointee who had previous experience as a
firefighter and who otherwise meets the qualifications as set forth in this
chapter and the laws of the state.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.47 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   Any volunteer officer or member of the Fire Department who shall refuse or
voluntarily neglect to obey or execute any order from the Fire Department at
any firematic function or who shall violate or willfully neglect or refuse to
be controlled, governed or managed by any of the rules and regulations of the
Fire Department that may be adopted from time to time, as herein provided,
shall be subject to suspension or expulsion from the Fire Department in such
manner and upon such hearing or trial as may be prescribed or provided by the
rules and regulations of the Fire Department. The suspension or expulsion of
any member shall be subject to the approval of the Mayor and Township
Committee.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.48 CHARGES INVOLVING MORAL TURPITUDE, NEGLECT OF DUTY OR INSUBORDINATION;
APPEALS.
   All charges for offenses involving moral turpitude or neglect of duties or
insubordination while on duty as a firefighter or firematic function that may
be proferred against any volunteer officer or member of the Fire Department
shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the Department.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.49 MONTHLY STIPEND.
   Any volunteer officer or member of the Fire Department shall be entitled to
a monthly allowance that is set by the Chief of the Department and approved by
Township Committee. In addition, to be eligible to receive the monthly
allowance, each member must attend the minimum training sessions as set forth
by the Chief of the Department. Should any member be unavailable to attend a
training due to a conflict with their work schedule, they will be afforded the
opportunity to attend a make-up session to be coordinated with the Department
Training Officer. Advance permission from the Department Training Officer will
be required for members to receive credit for attending outside training
classes. The accumulated monies for each month shall be paid to the volunteer
member following the first Township Committee meeting of the following month.
In no event shall payments received by a volunteer officer or member equal or
exceed the limitations set forth in the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act as may
be amended from time to time, any IRS or State Department of Treasury rules or
regulations governing payments to volunteers or any guideline issued by the
State Department of Labor, taking into account also any non-financial benefits
received by said volunteer.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.50 CONSTRUAL OF PAYMENTS.
   The payments set forth in §
31A.51 shall constitute reimbursement for various expenses which may be
incurred by the members of the Fire Department in the faithful performance of
their duties [and] shall not be considered as salary.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.51 YEARLY CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   All volunteer officers and members of the Fire Department shall, regardless
of the number of the actual alarms responded to, be entitled to a yearly
clothing allotment as is fixed on an annual basis by Township Committee and in
accordance with the Fire Department uniform policy.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.52 LOSAP.
   Eligible volunteer officers and members are entitled to take part in the
Length of Service Awards Program (“LOSAP”) in accordance with applicable law,
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.53 LIFE INSURANCE POLICY.
   Any volunteer officer or member of the Fire Department is eligible for
continued life insurance coverage which had been established by the now
dissolved VFD.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 31A.54 VERIFICATION OF ATTENDANCE.
   The Fire Chief shall institute a verification procedure for the verification
of attendance which shall be approved annually by the Township Committee. Such
procedure shall include, but shall not be limited to requirements that each
firefighter personally sign a roster or an approved witnessed absentee roster
at the completion of and after each alarm or station duty indicating his or her
attendance at same, with such signatures to be witnessed by the officer in
charge; each member of the Fire Department shall maintain on file a specimen of
his or her signature; and the forms utilized in recording the attendance for
each call or duty shall be subject to the random and periodic audit under the
direction of the Fire Chief. These verification procedures will affect all
volunteer members of the Fire Department. Volunteer officers will be
responsible to the Fire Chief to verify their attendance at each call and
station duty.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.55 EXECUTION OF WAIVERS.
   No volunteer officer or member of the Fire Department shall be entitled to
any payment hereunder until he or she shall have first executed a waiver to be
prepared under the direction of the Township Clerk, waiving any and all claims
to pension, civil service or employment status of any kind whatsoever as a
result of receiving payments under this chapter.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PAID AND VOLUNTEER MEMBERS
§ 31A.70 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office and within five days
after appointment, each officer or member of the Fire Department shall take and
subscribe an oath or affirmation to faithfully and impartially discharge duties
of his or her appointment as an officer or member of the Fire Department in
accordance with the statutes of this state relating to the oath to be taken.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.71 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the officers and members of the Fire Department
shall be as prescribed by the laws of this state and such rules and regulations
as may now or hereafter be adopted by the Township Committee and the Fire
Department. All members of the Fire Department shall have the power to serve
and execute all processes issued by the Fire Department, Fire Chief and
Director of Public Safety in accordance with the laws of this state.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
§ 31A.72 ALARMS.
   (A)   All members of the Township Fire Department shall perform the duties
set down by the Fire Chief and as ordered by the superior officer.
   (B)   Each member shall, at each alarm of fire, report to their respective
fire station. All members are required to respond to the fire to staff
apparatus until all apparatus have been manned and are on the road. Officers
may stop at the scene of the alarm if it is on their way to the firehouse and
no higher ranking officer has established command at the scene. In all cases
where a firefighter has reported to the scene rather than the firehouse he or
she shall immediately report to his or her superior.
   (C)   At an alarm of fire, incident, or assignment, no member shall leave
his or her post of duty unless so ordered by his or her superior officer.
   (D)   After an alarm of fire, incident, or assignment, every member shall be
expected to return with the apparatus and shall not leave the Fire Department
until attendance has been recorded by the officer in charge and dismissal
given.
   (E)   Members may be excused from returning to the Fire Department by
obtaining permission from the officer in charge of their respective apparatus.
   (F)   Under no condition shall a firefighter leave the apparatus or any
position in which he or she may have been placed while on duty without the
permission of the officer in command.
   (G)   No member of the Fire Department shall drive any department vehicle
apparatus except the regularly appointed driver unless directed to by the
superior officer or the Fire Chief, and then only in the case of emergency.
   (H)   No member of the Fire Department shall be permitted to tamper with or
fix or repair any apparatus unless directed to by the superior officer of the
Fire Chief, and then only in the case of emergency.
   (I)   No person shall be allowed to enter any fire station or handle any
apparatus or implements belonging to the Fire Department unless accompanied by
an active member of the Fire Department.
   (J)   No apparatus shall be permitted to leave the confines of the township
in case of a fire in an adjacent or neighboring municipality unless a prior
mutual aid agreement has been negotiated or they are dispatched by the Camden
County Communications Center.
   (K)   All requests for repairs or supplies for the Fire Department shall be
presented to the Battalion Chief for approval, via the chain of command. In
case any apparatus shall become so disabled that immediate repairs are
necessary, the officer operating such apparatus shall immediately report the
condition to the Battalion Chief, via the chain of command, who shall have same
repaired in accordance with the applicable state and municipal regulations.
(Ord. 311-17, passed 12-27-17; Am. Ord. 411-22, passed 10-24-22; Am. Ord. 426-
23, passed 4-23-23)
CHAPTER 32: OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
General Provisions Relating to Boards and Committees
   
32.001   Applicability
   
32.002   Absenteeism
   
32.003   Attendance reports; hearing to determine excusable absences
Economic Development Committee
   
32.015   Creation of an Economic Development Committee
   
32.016   Appointment of members; terms; meetings
   
32.017   Officers
   
32.018   Duties
   
32.019   Oath of office
   
32.020   Bylaws; compensation
Environmental Commission
   
32.035   Commission established; purpose
   
32.036   Membership; compensation; Chairman; alternate members
   
32.037   Terms of office; vacancies
   
32.038   Removal of members
   
32.039   Records to be kept; annual report
   
32.040   Meetings and records to be open to public
   
32.041   Appropriation; additional employees
   
32.042   Powers and duties
   
32.043   Applications for development
   
32.044   Acquisition of property
Township Marketing Council
   
32.055   Establishment
   
32.056   Membership; Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
   
32.057   Appointments; qualifications; terms of office; vacancies
   
32.058   Compensation
   
32.059   Quorum
   
32.060   Adoption of bylaws
   
32.061   Powers and duties
   
32.062   Limitation on powers; monthly report
Recreation Advisory Board
   
32.115   Creation; membership; compensation
   
32.116   Terms; vacancies
   
32.117   Advisory members
   
32.118   Purpose; powers and duties
   
32.119   Liaison officer
Americans with Disabilities Act Grievance Committee
   
32.130   Appointment of Committee and related officials
   
32.131   Committee duties and membership
Board of Health
   
32.140   Board established
   
32.141   Membership; compensation; Chairman; alternate members
   
32.142   Terms of office; vacancies
   
32.143   Removal of members
   
32.144   Records to be kept; annual report
   
32.145   Meetings and records to be open to public; conflicts
   
32.146   Appropriation; additional employees
   
32.147   Powers and duties
   
32.148   Rule adoption
Citizens Cultural and Diversity Advisory Committee
   
32.160   Establishment and purpose
   
32.161   Membership; Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
   
32.162   Appointments; qualifications; terms of office; vacancies
   
32.163   Compensation
   
32.164   Quorum
   
32.165   Powers and duties
   
32.166   Limitation on powers; annual report
Voorhees Art Commission
   
32.170   Establishment and purpose
   
32.171   Membership; Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
   
32.172   Appointment; qualifications; terms of office; vacancies
   
32.173   Compensation
   
32.174   Quorum
   
32.175   Powers and duties
   
32.176   Adoption of bylaws
   
32.177   Limitation on powers; annual report
Cross-reference:
   Indemnification for legal liabilities and expenses, see §
38.20
GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
§ 32.001 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply in any instance where a
state statute is in conflict herewith.
('74 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. 340-1986, passed 10-14-86)
§ 32.002 ABSENTEEISM.
   (A)   The member of any board or committee appointed by the Mayor and/or the
Mayor and Township Committee may be removed for absenteeism, and the vacancy
created by such removal shall be filled in the same manner as originally
appointed.
   (B)   While retaining all other rights of removal existing by reason of
statutory provision or common law, it is the intent of this subchapter to
include absenteeism as a cause for removal.
   (C)   For the purposes of this subchapter, any member who fails to attend
three successive regularly scheduled meetings or work sessions or more than
one-third of the regularly scheduled meetings or work sessions in any three-
month period, whichever is greater, may be removed from such board or
committee.
('74 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. 340-1986, passed 10-14-86)
§ 32.003 ATTENDANCE REPORTS; HEARING TO DETERMINE EXCUSABLE ABSENCES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the chairperson of each board and
committee to send monthly reports of attendance to the Township Clerk. When the
reports reflect absences equal to the number prescribed in §
32.002(C), ten-day written notices shall be sent to the member(s) by the Clerk
of the intent to remove.
   (B)   Upon request of the member to be removed, a hearing will be held by
the Mayor and Township Committee to determine whether the absences were
excusable.
('74 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. 340-1986, passed 10-14-86)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
§ 32.015 CREATION OF AN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
   There is hereby created an Economic Development Committee which will be
known as the “Economic Development Committee of the Township of Voorhees.” This
Committee shall be advisory to the Township Committee and shall consist of not
less than five or more than seven members. A Township Committee member and the
Township Economic & Community Development Coordinator shall be appointed in
addition to the five to seven members that make up the Committee.
(Ord. 308-17, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 419-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.016 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERMS; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The term of office of Committee members shall be for three years; and
terms shall be arranged so that approximately one-third of the total membership
shall expire each year.
   (B)    The Committee members shall be appointed by the Township Committee
and consist of two or more township residents and two or more township business
owners. A Township Committee member and the Economic and Community Development
Coordinator shall also be appointed to serve in addition to the appointed
Committee members.
   (C)   The Economic Development Committee shall meet on a schedule devised by
its members, but not less than four times each year.
   (D)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the whole number of members.
(Ord. 308-17, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 419-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.017 OFFICERS.
   The Committee shall organize annually by the election of one of its members
as Chairman. The Committee shall, also, elect a Vice Chairman. The Committee
shall, also, appoint a Secretary, which Secretary need not be a member of the
Committee.
(Ord. 308-17, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 419-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.018 DUTIES.
    The Economic Development Committee shall have and perform the following
duties to the extent it deems necessary:
   (A)   The development of plans and programs to encourage the expansion and
strengthening of existing business and commercial enterprises in the township
consistent with the best interests of the township as a whole.
   (B)   The development of plans and programs which will attract new business
and commercial enterprises to the township which are in the best interests of
the township as a whole.
   (C)   The investigation, analysis and submission of regular reports to the
Township Committee on any obstacles to the expansion of the industrial and
commercial tax base of the township.
   (D)   The making of recommendations to the Township Committee regarding any
ways or means by which the township can assist in meeting the needs of any
development deemed appropriate.
   (E)    The Economic Development Committee may participate in appropriate
county and regional economic development activities.
   (F)   The Economic Development Committee shall develop ways and means of
promoting and attracting the township’s economic development assets for
industry, resort/tourism, transportation, governmental and other potential
economic interests.
   (G)   The Economic Development Committee shall not exercise any power of
condemnation and shall not be authorized to pledge the credit of the township
or to create any debt against the township or in any manner act as the agent of
the township, except as specifically authorized by resolution of the Township
Committee.
   (H)   The Economic Development Committee is authorized to expend such monies
as may be appropriated for its use in the annual township budget to carry out
the purposes of the Committee as hereinabove set forth.
   (I)   The Economic Development Committee shall make an annual report to the
Mayor and Township Committee setting forth, in detail, its operations and
transactions for the preceding 12 months. The Committee shall keep complete and
accurate records of its accounts, shall not exceed its budget and monies
received from the township and shall be expended only for the purposes for
which they have been appropriated.
   (J)   The Economic Development Committee shall inquire into, survey and
publicize the extent, advantages and utility of the vacant lands of the
municipality, whether municipality-owned or otherwise; classify the vacant
lands according to their adaptability for economic development; study and
analyze the surrounding municipalities with a view to ascertaining the
opportunities for the economic development of the municipality; advertise the
economic advantages and opportunities of the municipality and the availability
of real estate within the municipality for economic development; encourage
accomplish the economic development of the township. The Committee may also
confer with the Tax Assessor and study the tax structure with a view toward
making recommendations to reduce the tax burden of the municipality.
(Ord. 308-17, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 419-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.019 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Each member and officer of the Committee shall, before assuming office, take
and subscribe an oath that he or she will faithfully and impartially discharge
the duties of his or her office.
(Ord. 308-17, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 419-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.020 BYLAWS; COMPENSATION.
    To effectuate its purposes, the Economic Development Committee shall have
the power to adopt suitable bylaws for the management of its affairs. The
members and officers of the Committee shall serve without compensation, but
each shall receive their actual disbursements for expenses incurred in
performing their respective duties.
(Ord. 308-17, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 419-2023, passed 2-13-23)
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
§ 32.035 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created in the Township an Environmental Commission,
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:56A-1 et seq., with the membership, powers, duties and
responsibilities hereafter set forth in this subchapter. The Commission is
established to research, discuss and recommend to the township various
environmental programs and policies that would facilitate the protection and
improvement of the environment, efficient management of natural resources,
promote a sustainable community, and enhance the aesthetic appearance of the
township, as well as the protection, development or use of natural resources
located within the township.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.036 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION; CHAIRMAN; ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five regular members, one alternate
member, and one Township Committee Liaison which shall be the appointed Class
III Planning Board member, all appointed by the Mayor and approved by Township
Committee. One regular member shall also be a member of the Township Planning
Board, one regular member shall also be a member of the Township Zoning Board,
and all regular and alternate members shall be residents of the township.
   (B)   All members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   The Mayor shall designate one regular member to serve as Chairman and
presiding officer of the Commission.
   (D)   The alternate member shall be designated at the time of their
appointment as Alternate No. 1. An alternate member may participate in
discussions of the proceedings but may not vote except in the absence or
disqualification of a regular member. A vote shall not be delayed in order that
a regular member may vote instead of an alternate member.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)   
§ 32.037 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Regular members. Initially, the regular member who is not the Planning
Liaison or the Zoning Liaison shall be appointed for, in regard to the first, a
one-year term, and in regard to the second, a two-year term. Thereafter, each
appointment shall be for a three-year term and until the appointment and
qualification of such member's successor. The term of the Planning Liaison
shall coincide with such person's term on the Township Planning Board. The term
of the Zoning Liaison shall coincide with such person's term on the Zoning
Board. A vacancy on the Commission occurring other than by expiration of a term
shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment.
   (B)   Alternate member. The term of the alternate member shall be for two
years. A vacancy occurring otherwise than by expiration of term shall be filled
by the Township Committee for the unexpired term only.
   (C)   Township Committee Liaison. The term of the Township Committee Liaison
shall be for one year.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.038 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor or Township Committee may remove any regular member of the
Commission for cause, on written charges served upon the member and after a
public hearing thereon, at which the member shall be entitled to be heard in
person or through counsel.
   (B)   An alternate member, after public hearing if he or she requests one,
may be removed by the Township Committee for cause.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.039 RECORDS TO BE KEPT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall keep records of its meetings and activities and shall
make an annual report to the Township Committee, which report shall be
comprehensive and detailed, covering operations, receipts, disbursements and
expenditures for the full year, and shall be shared with the Township Zoning
Board and the Township Planning Board.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.040 MEETINGS AND RECORDS TO BE OPEN TO PUBLIC; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   The meetings of the Commission shall be subject to the Open Public
Meetings Act, and its records shall be considered public documents.
   (B)   No member or alternate member may act on any matter, or participate in
the discussions or deliberation on any matter in which he or she, either
directly or indirectly, has any personal or financial interest or other
conflict of interest (as determined, if necessary within the sole discretion of
the Township Solicitor).
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.041 APPROPRIATION; ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)    Funds for the expenses incurred by the Commission shall be
appropriated through (a) the referring board (hereafter defined) for a referred
application (hereafter defined) or (b) if a project (hereafter defined) is
referred by Township Committee, then from such funds appropriated by the
township for such project.
      (2)   Annually, the Commission shall deliver to the Township Committee an
annual budget (for the calendar year then commencing) covering all anticipated
costs and expenses of the Commission, including all costs associated with any
planned or proposed projects during the budget year, which budget shall be used
by the Township Committee in setting the appropriation for such year; provided,
however, that the appropriation shall be within the sole discretion of Township
Committee.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission may appoint a secretary, who may be an employee
of the township and who need not be a member of the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission may, in connection with any (a) project, with the
approval of Township Committee, or (b) referred application, with the approval
of the referring board, engage an engineer or such other professionals or
consultants as the Commission deems necessary to advise it on matters pertinent
to the project or referred application; provided, however, that the costs, fees
and expenses associated with same have been approved by the referring board or
Township Committee, as applicable.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.042 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   At the request of the Planning Board, compile and keep an index of all
open areas, publicly or privately owned, including open marshlands, swamps and
other wetlands, compile information on the proper use of such areas, and
recommend to the Planning Board plans and programs concerning open space to
include in the Township Master Plan and recommend to the Township Committee
plans and programs for the development and use of such areas.
   (B)   At the request of Township Committee, or at the recommendation by the
Commission and approval of Township Committee, undertake the following
projects:
      (1)   Plan and implement programs that inform the public about local
conservation programs, promote conservation of and develop the quality of the
environmental resources of the Township and promote the preservation and
protection of natural resources such as water, flora and fauna.
      (2)   Manage donated or purchased lands for conservation purposes and
operate conservation programs.
      (3)   Act as the coordinating agency for the Township on conservation
matters and as a liaison between the Township and regional, county, state and
federal agencies and programs.
      (4)   Study and make recommendations concerning open space preservation,
water resources management, air pollution control, solid waste management,
noise control, soil and landscape protection, environmental appearance, marine
resources and protection of flora and fauna.
      (5)   The powers and duties in §
32.044 (with respect to acquisition of property). Research, make application
for and promote grants and other financial assistance programs which can
provide funding to the Commission and/or the Township to fulfill the
Commission's duties pursuant to this section.
      (6)   Develop, manage and/or support any subcommittee of the Commission
(e.g., Sustainable Voorhees) or other group in furtherance of the purpose of
the Commission.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.043 APPLICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   On request of either the Planning Board or the Zoning Board (the “referring
board”) in connection with an application (“a referred application”), the
Commission shall review the referred application and provide its advice to the
referring board, which advice shall be conveyed through the Zoning Liaison or
the Planning Liaison, as applicable, by way of written report from the
Commission and, if required by the referring board, the testimony of the Zoning
Liaison or the Planning Liaison, as applicable, at the hearing on the referred
application to explain the written report. The written report must be submitted
to the referring board's secretary (or, in the absence of a secretary, the
chairperson) no later than seven business days before the scheduled public
hearing on such referred application.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 35-00, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 417-
2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.044 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Commission, subject to the approval of the Township Committee, may
acquire property, both real and personal, in the name of the Township by gift,
purchase, grant, bequest, devise or lease for any of its purposes and shall
administer the same for such purposes subject to the terms of the conveyance or
gift. The funds for any such purchase shall be within the limits of and
supplied from the funds appropriated to the Commission. All provisions of the
Local Lands and Buildings Law shall apply with respect to such acquisition and
administration of real property by the Commission.
   (B)    Any such acquisition may be to acquire the fee or any lesser
interest, development right, easement (including conservation easement),
covenant or other contractual right (including conveyance on conditions or with
limitations or reversions), as may be necessary to acquire, maintain, improve,
protect, limit the future use of or otherwise conserve and properly utilize
open spaces and other land and water areas of the Township.
   (C)   Any such acquisition must be in furtherance of the purposes of the
Commission, including but not limited to, for use as living museums, sites for
scientific study, areas for teaching of natural history and conservation,
places of historic or prehistoric interest and scenic beauty and habitat for
rare and endangered plants and animals, passive recreation uses and open space.
(Ord. 957-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 417-2023, passed 2-13-23)
TOWNSHIP MARKETING COUNCIL
§ 32.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In order to actively promote the development of commercial and other
nonresidential property within the Township, with the intent of maximizing the
tax ratable base for the Township with minimal strain on Township and local and
regional school district resources, there is hereby established and created by
this subchapter a committee to be known as the Marketing Council of the
Township.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.056 MEMBERSHIP; CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Council shall consist of seven voting members and one nonvoting
member. Five members shall be residents of the Township, one member shall be
the Mayor or another member of Township Committee as designated by the Mayor,
and one member shall be the Aide to the Mayor. In addition to the foregoing,
one member of the Township Committee shall be appointed by the Township
Committee each year as a nonvoting member of the Council.
   (B)   The Aide to the Mayor shall be the Chairperson of the Council. The
Council shall select from the voting members a Vice Chairperson who shall
perform the duties of Chairperson in the Chairperson's absence. The Vice
Chairperson shall serve for a period of one year.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.057 APPOINTMENTS; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The members of the Council shall be appointed by the Township
Committee. Each member shall be a citizen of the United States of America and a
qualified voter of the state of New Jersey. Each member shall be appointed for
a term of three years. Vacancies on the Council for any cause shall be filled
for the unexpired term of the member being so replaced. Members shall serve for
their respective terms and until their successors are thereafter appointed and
qualified.
   (B)   Each member shall be chosen with a view to his or her qualifications
and fitness for service, shall have had experience in industry and commerce,
and shall be conversant with the economic needs and facilities of the Township.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.058 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Council shall serve without compensation,
but each shall receive actual disbursements for expenses in performing his or
her duties.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.059 QUORUM.
   A majority of the voting members shall constitute a quorum of the Council.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.060 ADOPTION OF BYLAWS.
   To effectuate its purposes, the Council shall have the power to adopt
suitable bylaws for the management of its affairs and to determine the duties
of its members, subject to §
32.061 below.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.061 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Council shall have all powers and duties necessary to accomplish the
purposes stated in §
32.055 above, including, but not limited to, the following: inquire into,
survey and publicize the extent, advantages and utility of the vacant lands of
the Township, whether Township owned or otherwise; classify the vacant lands
according to their adaptability for economic development; study and analyze the
surrounding municipalities with a view to ascertaining the opportunities for
the economic development of the Township; advertise the economic advantages and
opportunities of the Township and the availability of real estate within the
Township for economic development; encourage and accomplish the economic
development of the Township; and any other related activities that will promote
the economic development of the Township. The Council may also confer with the
Tax Assessor and study the tax structure with a view toward making
recommendations to reduce the tax burden of the Township. The Council shall
also periodically review and recommend changes to the Township zoning
regulations, development regulations and procedures, and the Township Master
Plan if, in the exercise of their reasonable business judgment, such changes
would be necessary to accomplish the goals of the Township as enumerated in §
32.055. The Council shall take advantage of all medium in existence to help
accomplish such goals, including, but not limited to, the internet.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
§ 32.062 LIMITATION ON POWERS; MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Council shall not have any powers other than those set forth in this
subchapter and specifically shall have no power to pledge the credit of the
Township or to enter into contracts or to otherwise create debts, except as
herein authorized, and shall operate within the appropriation made by the
Township Committee in its annual budget. The Council shall make a monthly
report to the Township Committee, setting forth in detail its operations and
recommendations covering the preceding calendar month.
(Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98)
RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.115 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION.
   There is hereby created a Recreation Advisory Board consisting of members to
be appointed by the Township Committee. All members of the Board shall be
residents of the Township. The membership of the Recreation Advisory Board
shall include five at-large members as well as a representative of each
recreational group operating in the Township that has been approved by the at-
large members of this Board and approved by Township Committee, in a list,
which shall be reviewed by the at-large members at least annually, identified
as the "Approved Voorhees Recreational Groups List". The appointment of the
members of the Approved Recreational Groups (the "Liaisons") to this Board
shall be based upon the recommendation of the applicable Approved Recreational
Group and approved by the Township Committeeperson who is the Director of Parks
and Recreation. No member of the Board shall receive any compensation for his
or her services.
('74 Code, § 21-1) (Ord. 538-1991, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 49-04, passed 5-10-
04; Am. Ord. 418-2023, passed 2-13-23)
§ 32.116 TERMS; VACANCIES.
   The terms of the six recreational group members of the Board shall be for
one year. All at-large members shall serve for a term of three years. Members
of the Board are subject to removal at any time for any reason that the
Voorhees Code recognizes, after a hearing, by the Mayor and Township Committee.
Any vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of any unexpired term in the same
manner as the original appointment.
('74 Code, § 21-2) (Ord. 538-1991, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 49-04, passed 5-10-
04)
§ 32.117 ADVISORY MEMBERS.
   The Township Committee may appoint two nonvoting advisory members to the
Recreation Advisory Board, one such member representing Voorhees CER or the
Voorhees School District, and one such member from the Township parks and
recreation staff. Such advisory members shall serve for terms of one year.
('74 Code, § 21-3) (Ord. 538-1991, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 49-04, passed 5-10-
04)
§ 32.118 PURPOSE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board is established to assist in the development and implementation of
recreation programs for residents of the Township. In order to carry out these
purposes, the Board shall have the following functions:
   (A)   To promote the recreational programs and facilities of the Township.
   (B)   To plan and implement local recreational programs available to
residents of all ages within the Township, and to inform the public about such
programs.
   (C)   To recommend to the Mayor and Township Committee plans and programs
for the use of Township recreational facilities, including playgrounds.
   (D)   To act as a coordinating agency to the community on recreational
matters and as a liaison between the Township and local, regional, county or
state recreational groups, public or private.
   (E)   To recommend to the Township Committee the establishment of
recreational programs to meet the needs of the residents of the Township.
('74 Code, § 21-4) (Ord. 538-1991, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 49-04, passed 5-10-
04)
§ 32.119 LIAISON OFFICER.
   The member of the Township Committee who is the head of parks and recreation
in the Township shall be the liaison officer between the Township Committee and
the Recreation Advisory Board.
('74 Code, § 21-5) (Ord. 538-1991, passed 3-11-91; Am. Ord. 49-04, passed 5-10-
04)
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE
§ 32.130 APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEE AND RELATED OFFICIALS.
   In January of each year at its reorganization meeting, the Township
Committee shall appoint by resolution the following positions:
   (A)   ADA Compliance Officer. The ADA Compliance Officer shall be a Township
employee who holds a confidential position within the Township and who is a
department head or higher level employee.
   (B)   Township Committee Liaison to the ADA Grievance Committee. The Liaison
shall be a member of Township Committee. This person shall work closely with
the ADA Compliance Officer to ensure that the procedures approved pursuant to
this subchapter are followed.
   (C)   ADA Grievance Committee. The committee shall be comprised of five
members, including the ADA Compliance Officer, the Township Committee Liaison
to the ADA Grievance Committee and three members appointed by the Township
Committee. The Township Committee shall take reasonable steps to appoint
members to the ADA Grievance Committee who are employees of the Township and
who have the background, education or experience that would reasonably suit
them for a position on a committee which may be asked to review issues dealing
with facilities, service and access to qualified individuals with disabilities.
(Ord. 847-97, passed 11-10-97)
Cross-reference:
   ADA procedures adopted by reference, see §
38.50
§ 32.131 COMMITTEE DUTIES AND MEMBERSHIP.
   The ADA Grievance Committee will be subject to the following duties and
conditions:
   (A)   The ADA Grievance Committee will meet as and when deemed necessary by
the ADA Compliance Officer; provided, however, that the ADA Grievance Committee
must meet within 15 days after all information necessary to evaluate a notice
of claim received as provided in the procedures adopted pursuant to this
subchapter and §
38.50. The ADA Compliance Officer will provide at least three days prior
written notice to all members of the ADA Grievance Committee of the date, time
and place of any meeting of the ADA Grievance Committee.
   (B)   A quorum of the ADA Grievance Committee shall be three members. All
decisions of the ADA Grievance Committee must be by the affirmative vote of a
majority of the members. All decisions of the ADA Grievance Committee must be
in writing and certified by the ADA Compliance Officer. Minutes of all meetings
of the ADA Grievance Committee will be maintained by the ADA Compliance
Officer. The ADA Compliance Officer is charged with the safekeeping of all
records with respect to the activities of the ADA Grievance Committee.
   (C)   If any member of the ADA Grievance Committee is disqualified from
participating in the review of any claim made under the ADA pursuant to the
procedures adopted under this subchapter and § 38.50 because of a conflict of
interest or a perceived conflict of interest, such person shall be counted for
purposes of determining whether a quorum is present, but such person shall not
participate in any discussions or review of any materials and shall not vote on
the matter. If for any reason the ADA Grievance Committee shall be unable,
because of a conflict, to have at least three members able to participate in
any review of a claim made under the ADA pursuant to the approved procedures,
temporary representatives to the ADA Grievance Committee shall be appointed by
the Township Committee by special resolution at the request of the Township
Committee Liaison to the ADA Grievance Committee.
(Ord. 847-97, passed 11-10-97)
   BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.140 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created in the Township a Board of Health, pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 26:3-1 et seq., with the membership, powers, duties and
responsibilities hereafter set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 32.141 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION; CHAIRMAN; ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of five members, appointed by the Township
Committee.
   (B)   All members of the Board shall serve without compensation, except that
each member shall be entitled to $2 for each meeting of the Board that such
member attends. Such compensation shall be paid in the same manner as Township
Committee members are paid for their services.
   (C)   The Board shall designate one regular member to serve as Chairman and
presiding officer of the Board.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 32.142 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Initially, two members shall be appointed to serve until December 31,
2000, two members shall be appointed to serve until December 31, 2001 and one
member shall be appointed to serve until December 31, 2002. Thereafter, each
appointment shall be for a three year term and until the appointment and
qualification of such member's successor. A vacancy on the Board occurring
other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the same manner as the original appointment for the remainder of the term of
the vacating member.
   (B)   All members of the Board shall be residents of the Township.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 32.143 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Township Committee may remove any member of the Board for cause, on
written charges served upon the member and after a public hearing thereon, at
which the member shall be entitled to be heard in person or through counsel.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 32.144 RECORDS TO BE KEPT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board shall keep records of its meetings and activities and shall make
an annual report to the Township Committee, which report shall be comprehensive
and detailed, covering operations, receipts, disbursements and expenditures for
the full year.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 32.145 MEETINGS AND RECORDS TO BE OPEN TO PUBLIC; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   The meetings of the Board shall be subject to the Open Public Meetings
Act, and its records shall be considered public documents. In January of each
year, the Board shall hold an organization meeting at which it shall designate
the dates, times and places of its meetings for the ensuing fiscal year, except
for the year 2000, which organizational meeting shall occur as soon as
practicable after the initial members of the Board are appointed by Township
Committee. At least one regular meeting shall occur in each year. Special
meetings may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the State
Department of Health. Notice of all regular and special meetings shall be
published as required under the Open Public Meetings Act.
   (B)   No member may act on any matter, or participate in the discussions or
deliberation on any matter in which she, either directly or indirectly, has any
personal or financial interest.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 32.146 APPROPRIATION; ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Township Committee, each year, shall appropriate funds for the
expenses incurred by the Board. Such appropriation shall be sufficient to
permit the Board to fulfill its duties and powers under §
32.147 below and for the expenses of the Board. Annually, the Board shall
deliver to the Township Committee an annual budget (for the calendar year then
commencing) covering all anticipated costs and expenses of the Board, which
budget shall be used by the Township Committee in setting the appropriation for
such year. In addition, the Township shall also make any and all emergency
appropriations in accordance with N.J.S.A. 26:3-44.
   (B)   The Board may appoint a secretary, who may be an employee of the
Township and who need not be a member of the Board; provided, however, that the
costs, fees and expenses with respect to such secretary must fall within the
limits of funds appropriated by the Township Committee to the Board each year.
All provisions of the Local Public Contracts Law shall apply with respect to
the hiring of any consultants or professionals by the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall appoint the Camden County Health Officer and the
Public Officer for the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities established
by Ordinance No. 318-18 to act as its general agents for the enforcement of its
ordinances and sanitary laws of the State of New Jersey. All costs and expenses
with respect to the services of the Health Officers shall be paid for by the
township from the appropriations for the Board. All provisions of N.J.S.A. 26:
3-1 et seq. applicable to health officers shall apply to the Health Officers
appointed by the Board.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 10-2000, passed 4-10-00; Am. Ord. 322-
18, passed 3-5-18)
§ 32.147 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties within the
jurisdictional limits of the Township:
   (A)   All powers and duties enumerated in N.J.S.A. 26:3-31.
   (B)   The powers set forth in N.J.S.A. 26:3-32 through 26:3-34.
   (C)   Preparation of an annual report in accordance with N.J.S.A. 26:3-35.
   (D)   Enforcement of N.J.S.A. 26:3-45 through 26:3-62.
   (E)   The code established and adopted by this subchapter is described and
commonly known as the “Public Health Nuisance Code of New Jersey (1953)” which
is hereby adopted in its entirety.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 322-18, passed 3-5-18)
§ 32.148 RULE ADOPTION.
   The Board shall adopt such ordinances and rules as it shall deem appropriate
in accordance with N.J.S.A. 26:3-64 through 26:3-69.5, including all
procedures, processes and penalties for the violation of any health ordinance
or code in accordance with N.J.S.A. 26:3-70 through 26:3-82.
(Ord. 08-2000, passed 3-13-00
CITIZENS CULTURAL AND DIVERSITY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 32.160 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   In order to foster positive human relations through education, encouragement
of greater respect and understanding between people and the recognition of the
racial, ethnic, religious and cultural diversity and promote tolerance and
mutual respect between all persons within the municipality, there is hereby
established and created by this chapter a committee to be known as the Citizens
Cultural and Diversity Advisory Committee of the Township of Voorhees.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07)
§ 32.161 MEMBERSHIP; CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Committee so created shall consist of 14 regular members and one
member who shall also be a member of the Township Committee and shall have the
powers hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   The Citizens Cultural and Diversity Advisory Committee shall select
from its regular members one member to serve as its Chairperson and one member
to serve as Vice Chairperson to serve for a period of one year.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07; Am. Ord. 205-12, passed 2-13-12)
§ 32.162 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The members of the Citizens Cultural and Diversity Advisory Committee
shall be appointed by the Township Committee. Each member shall be a citizen of
the United States of America, a qualified voter of the State of New Jersey.
Each member shall be appointed for a term of three years; provided, however,
that the schedule of appointments and terms thereof shall be staggered as
follows: four members shall be appointed to serve until December 31, 2012; five
members shall be appointed to serve until December 31, 2013; and five members
shall be appointed to serve until December 31, 2014. Thereafter, each
appointment shall be for a three-year term until the appointment and
qualification of such member’s successor. A vacancy on the Committee occurring
other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the same manner as the original appointment for the remainder of the term of
the vacating member.
   (B)   All members of the Committee shall be residents of the Township.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07; Am. Ord. 205-12, passed 2-13-12)
§ 32.163 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Committee shall serve without compensation
but each shall receive actual disbursement for expenses in performing his or
her duties.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07)
§ 32.164 QUORUM.
   A majority of the voting members shall constitute a quorum of the Committee.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07)
§ 32.165 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Citizens Cultural and Diversity Advisory Committee shall have all powers
and duties necessary to accomplish the purpose stated in §
32.160, including the following:
   (A)   To provide a forum that will encourage input from our culturally
diverse citizen group for reviewing and establishing our Township’s vision.
   (B)   To advocate and assist in the development of continuing educational
programs for Township Committee and staff that will lead to a greater
understanding of the value of a diverse community to the governance process.
   (C)   To provide outreach to the community in an effort to place the issue
of diversity before our citizens in a positive manner.
   (D)   To identify obstacles that impede access to Township government for
all of our community’s diverse members.
   (E)   To provide for the review and recommendation of culturally diverse
members for consideration of appointment to the Committee’s various boards,
commissions and task forces.
   (F)   To hold regular public meetings at least once a month and to keep a
written record of its proceedings, which shall be a public record.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07)
§ 32.166 LIMITATION ON POWERS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Committee shall not have any powers other than those set forth herein
and specifically shall have no power to pledge the credit of the municipality
or to enter into contracts or to otherwise create debts, except as herein
authorized, and shall operate within the appropriation made by Township
Committee in its annual budget. The Committee shall make annual reports to the
municipality during December of each year, setting forth in detail its
operations and recommendations covering the preceding 12 months.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 2-26-07)
VOORHEES ART COMMISSION
§ 32.170 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   In order to provide a space for local artists to express their creativity
and share their artistic gifts with the community, there is hereby established
and created by this subchapter a commission to be known as the Voorhees Art
Commission of the Township of Voorhees, which may also be known as the Voorhees
Arts Council.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.171 MEMBERSHIP; CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Commission so created shall consist of five regular members and
one non-voting member who shall also be a member of the Township Committee and
shall have the powers hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   The Commission shall select from its regular members one member to
serve as its Chairperson, one member to serve as Vice Chairperson, and one
member to serve as its Secretary to serve for a period of one year.
   (C)   The Commission may be served by an advisory board of non-voting
members who do not need to be residents of the Township of Voorhees.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.172 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The members of the Voorhees Art Commission shall be appointed by the
Township Committee. Each member shall be a citizen of the United States of
America and a qualified voter of the State of New Jersey. Each member shall be
appointed for a term of three years; provided, however, that the schedule of
appointments and terms thereof shall be staggered as follows: one member shall
be appointed to serve until December 31, 2022; two members shall be appointed
to serve until December 31, 2023; and two members shall be appointed to serve
until December 31, 2024. Thereafter, each appointment shall be for a three-year
term until the appointment and qualification of such member’s successor. A
vacancy on the Commission occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be
filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment
for the remainder of the term of the vacating member.
   (B)   All members of the Commission shall be residents of the Township. This
does not apply to the advisory board of non-voting members.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.173 COMPENSATION.
   The members and officers of the Commission shall serve without compensation,
but each shall receive actual disbursement for expenses in performing his or
her duties.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.174 QUORUM.
   A majority of the voting members shall constitute a quorum of the
Commission.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.175 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Voorhees Art Commission shall have all powers and duties necessary to
accomplish the purpose stated in §
32.170, including the following:
   (A)   To provide a forum that will encourage input from our art community
for reviewing and establishing our township’s vision;
   (B)   To advocate and assist in the development of continuing educational
programs for the Township Committee and staff that will lead to a greater
understanding of the value of a growing art community;
   (C)   To hold regular public meetings at least every other month and to keep
a written record of its proceedings, which shall be a public record; and
   (D)   Recommend to the Township Committee and implement and supervise
programs, exhibits, galleries events to display and/or sell art.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.176 ADOPTION OF BYLAWS.
   To effectuate its purposes, the Commission shall have the power to adopt
suitable bylaws for the management of its affairs and to determine the duties
of its members, subject to §
32.177 below.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
§ 32.177 LIMITATION ON POWERS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall not have any powers other than those set forth herein
and specifically shall have no power to pledge the credit of the municipality
or to enter into contracts or to otherwise create debts, except as herein
authorized, and shall operate within the appropriation made by Township
Committee in its annual budget. The Commission shall make annual reports to the
municipality during December of each year, setting forth in detail its
operations and recommendations covering the preceding 12 months.
(Ord. 396-22, passed 2-28-22)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Establishment of court
   
33.02   Jurisdiction and administration
Public Defender
   
33.20   Office established; duties
   
33.21   Indigent defendants
   
33.22   Application fee; fee for services rendered
   
33.23   Funds collected
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COURT.
   There shall be established in the Township of Voorhees a municipal court to
be known as the “Municipal Court of the Township of Voorhees.”
§ 33.02 JURISDICTION AND ADMINISTRATION.
   The Municipal Court shall be administered and shall have all jurisdiction
power and authority as provided in N.J.S.A. 2B:12-1 et seq.
PUBLIC DEFENDER
§ 33.20 OFFICE ESTABLISHED; DUTIES.
   (A)   The office of Public Defender is hereby established.
   (B)   The Township Public Defender shall represent all indigent defendants
in Municipal Court, except in those cases of temporary unavailability or
conflict of interest, who have been charged with an offense in Municipal Court
and are entitled to representation pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2B:24-1 et seq. All
necessary services and facilities of representation, including both expert and
lay investigation and testimony, as well as other preparation, shall be
provided in every case. The Municipal Public Defender shall be responsible for
handling all phases of the defense, including but not limited to discovery,
pre-trial and post-trial hearings, motions, removals to federal district court
and other collateral functions reasonably related to the defense. As used in
this division, POST-TRIAL HEARING shall not include de novo appeals to Superior
Court. It shall also be the responsibility of the Township Public Defender to
verify eligibility of applicants, verify payment of application fees by the
indigent defendants, and to create and use such forms as are necessary to
assure the eligibility of such applicants and the payment of their application
fees.
   (C)   The Municipal Public Defender shall receive compensation as
established through the Township salary ordinance. The Municipal Public
Defender may submit a detailed invoice covering fees and costs expended by him
or her for services which may be required beyond attendance at regular
Municipal Court sessions, which additional fees and charges shall be paid at
the same hourly rate as the hourly rate in effect for the Township Solicitor at
that time out of the funds collected pursuant to this subchapter.
   (D)   The Municipal Public Defender shall appear only at those times and on
those dates that his or her services are required in order to represent
indigent defendants as determined by the Municipal Court Judge.
('74 Code, § 20-1) (Ord. 694-94, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 876-98, passed 6-8-
98)
§ 33.21 INDIGENT DEFENDANTS.
   Each defendant in the Municipal Court who is entitled to be represented by a
Municipal Public Defender pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2B:24-2 shall be represented by
the Municipal Public Defender, provided that such defendant does not have the
present financial ability to secure competent legal representation.
('74 Code, § 20-2) (Ord. 876-98, passed 6-8-98)
§ 33.22 APPLICATION FEE; FEE FOR SERVICES RENDERED.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect from the indigent defendant an
application fee of $200. In accordance with guidelines promulgated by the New
Jersey Supreme Court, the Judge of the Municipal Court may waive a portion or
all of the required application fee, only if the court determines in its
discretion, upon a clear and convincing showing by the applicant, that the
application fee represents an unreasonable burden on the person seeking
representation. The Municipal Court may also permit the indigent defendant to
pay the application fee over a specific period of time not to exceed four
months. A default or failure in making payments of the application fee shall
disqualify the indigent defendant from receiving services by the Municipal
Public Defender.
   (B)   If the indigent defendant has or reasonably expects to have means to
meet some part, though not all, of the costs of the services rendered, the
defendant shall, in addition to the application fee, be required to reimburse
the Township, either by a single payment or in installments in such amount as
he can reasonably be expected to pay; but no default or failure to make
payments to meet some part, or all, of the costs of the services rendered,
shall affect or reduce the rendering of services by the Municipal Public
Defender. The Township shall have a lien on any property to which the indigent
defendant shall have or acquire an interest in for an amount equal to the
reasonable value of the services rendered to the indigent defendant pursuant to
this chapter, as calculated at the same rate as the Office of the Public
Defender bills the Township pursuant to §
33.20 at that time. To effectuate such a lien for the Township, the Township
Solicitor shall file a notice setting forth services rendered to the indigent
defendant and the reasonable value thereof with the Clerk of the Superior
Court. The filing of the notice with the Clerk of the Superior Court shall
constitute a lien on the property for a period of ten years from the date of
filing, unless discharged sooner, and, except for such time limitations, shall
have the force and effect of a judgment. Within ten days after the filing of
the notice, the Municipal Attorney shall send by certified mail or serve
personally a copy of the notice with a statement of the date of the filing to
or upon the indigent defendant at the indigent defendant's last known address.
('74 Code, § 20-2) (Ord. 876-98, passed 6-8-98)
§ 33.23 FUNDS COLLECTED.
   Funds collected by the Municipal Court Clerk for application fees and fees
for services rendered that are paid by indigent defendants shall be deposited
into a dedicated fund administered by the Chief Financial Officer of the
Township. Such funds shall be used exclusively to meet the costs incurred in
providing the services of Municipal Public Defender including, when required,
expert and lay investigation and testimony. Beginning on January 1, 1999, those
funds collected which exceed more than 25% of the amount which the Municipality
expended during the prior year for providing the services of the Municipal
Public Defender shall be forwarded to the Criminal Disposition and Review
Collection Fund administered by the Victims of Crime Compensation Board.
'74 Code, § 20-3) (Ord. 876-98, passed 6-8-98)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Claims Approval
   
34.01   Procedure for submission of claims
   
34.02   Presentation to Clerk; inclusion in agenda
   
34.03   Approval or rejection by Township Committee
   
34.04   Recording of claims and action thereon
   
34.05   Preparation of checks
Payroll Account
   
34.15   Establishment and administration
   
34.16   Manner of making payments from account
   
34.17   Proper records
   
34.18   Third-party payroll disbursement
Hotel and Motel Room Occupancy Tax
   
34.50   Establishment
Cannabis Municipal Tax
   
34.51   Cannabis municipal tax
Open Space Recreation and Farmland Trust Fund
   
34.65   Establishment and purpose
   
34.66   Powers and duties
   
34.67   Funding
   
34.68   Disposition of property or other property rights
   
34.69   Review
Control of Cash Receipts
   
34.75   Purpose
   
34.76   Segregation of duties
   
34.77   Security of assets
   
34.78   Central cashier procedures
   
34.79   Review and reconciliation
   
34.80   Cash management plan
   
34.81   Miscellaneous
   
34.99   Penalty
CLAIMS APPROVAL
§ 34.01 PROCEDURE FOR SUBMISSION OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Any person claiming payment from the Township shall first submit a
detailed statement of the items or demand necessitating such claim to the
responsible municipal department, specifying particularly how the bill or
demand is made up, and a certification of the party claiming payment that it is
correct. No bill, claim or demand shall be considered for payment unless the
voucher has attached to it or includes certification by a department head (or
other municipal official responsible for certain functions) or his duly
designated representative, having personal knowledge of the facts, that the
goods have been received by or the services rendered to the Township and that
those services or goods are consistent with any existing contract or purchase
order. The Chief Financial Officer or administrator shall have the duty to
audit, warrant and make recommendations on all claims and bills.
   (B)   Payments are only to be made for goods and services obtained in
accordance withe the Local Public Contracts Law, N.J.S.A. 40A:11-1 et seq., as
the same may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   All purchases of goods and services shall be pre-approved in
accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   When a contract is awarded, in accordance with the Local Public
Contracts Law, the department head shall prepare a detailed contract/purchase
order specifying in sufficient detail the goods and/or services being acquired
from the vendor/contractor, the name, address, federal tax identification
number of the vendor/contractor, the price of each good or service unit and the
number of units being acquired, the department for whom the goods or services
are being acquired and specifying what type of contract, under the Local Public
Contracts Law, the particular contract is classified (i.e., less than $2,625;
price quotes were obtained; State contract; public bidding or exception to
bidding).
      (2)   The contract/purchase order shall then be submitted to the Chief
Financial Officer who shall certify that funds to satisfy the contract are
available and that the acquisition or service is within the applicable
budgetary appropriation.
      (3)   The contract/purchase order is then presented to the Township
Administrator for approval.
      (4)   Upon approval of the contract/purchase order, the Accounts Payable
Supervisor shall encumber the funds for the good or services, then the
contract/purchase order shall be returned to the appropriate department head.
   (D)   When an item or a service is acquired under an approved contract/
purchase order, the top page of purchase order shall be sent to the vendor/
contract.
      (1)   The vendor/contractor shall sign the purchase order on the "Payee
Declaration" block certifying that the goods have been furnished and/or that
the services have been rendered and that the purchase order is correct in all
particulars.
      (2)   The purchase order shall be certified by the department head
indicating that the goods and/or services have been received.
      (3)   The signed and certified purchase order shall then be returned to
the Accounts Payable Supervisor who will prepare the payment.
      (4)   An original invoice, statement or bill from the vendor/contractor
shall be attached to the executed purchase order. Any an all other pertinent
information must also be attached to the purchase order (i.e. price quotes).
   (E)   Approved, completed and executed purchase orders shall be paid only
after the following procedures are completed:
      (1)   The Chief Financial Officer shall prepare a list of purchase orders
("bills") submitted for payment in accordance with the procedures set forth
above, and this bill will be submitted to the Township Clerk prior to the next
scheduled public meeting of the Township Committee, which bill list will be
included in the official agenda for such public meeting for consideration and
approval by the Township Committee.
      (2)   All approved bills will be submitted to the Accounts Payable
Supervisor who will prepare the necessary checks for payment of such approved
bills.
      (3)   All checks written on Township accounts must be signed by three
persons: a member of Township Committee, the Chief Financial Officer or Deputy
Treasurer and the Township Clerk or the Deputy Clerk. Two of the three required
signatures may be facsimiles but one signature must be an original.
      (4)   The bill list and the action taken by the Township Committed
thereon shall be included in the official minutes of the public meeting at
which such bill list was considered.
      (5)   The Chief Financial Officer shall record all payments in the
appropriate books of account.
      (6)   The Accounts Payable Supervisor shall mail all approved payment
checks to the respective vendor/contract.
      (7)   All records pertaining to approved or disapproved purchase orders
shall be made available to the public for inspection.
('74 Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 46-1977, passed 12-27-77; Am. Ord. 32-00, passed 11-13-
00)
§ 34.02 PRESENTATION TO CLERK; INCLUSION IN AGENDA.
   The list of bills or claims, duly certified, shall be presented to the
Municipal Clerk for inclusion in the agenda of the next immediate formal
meeting of the governing body. All claims or bills to be considered by the
governing body shall be listed systematically without preference, and the list
shall be made available to every member of the governing body at least three
full days prior to formal action by that body.
('74 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 46-1977, passed 12-27-77)
§ 34.03 APPROVAL OR REJECTION BY TOWNSHIP COMMITTEE.
   Claims shall be considered by the Township Committee which shall approve the
same by signing the Clerk's list of bills, and a copy of the list of bills
shall be retained by the Township Chief Financial Officer, except that the
Township Committee may reject any claim presented to it stating the reason for
such rejection. Any disapproved claim shall be referred back to the Municipal
Clerk with such instructions as the governing body may give at the time of
disapproval.
('74 Code, § 6-3) (Ord. 46-1977, passed 12-27-77)
§ 34.04 RECORDING OF CLAIMS AND ACTION THEREON.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to record all claims in the
official minutes or through an appropriate claims register, indicating that the
governing body has, by formal action, approved the same, with appropriate
record as to any claims disapproved or rejected. All records pertaining to
approved and disapproved bills or claims shall be available for public
inspection.
('74 Code, § 6-4) (Ord. 46-1977, passed 12-27-77)
§ 34.05 PREPARATION OF CHECKS.
   After the Clerk has certified that the claims have been approved, she shall
turn the same over to the Chief Financial Officer, who shall forthwith prepare
the necessary checks for the payment thereof, which checks shall be signed by a
Township Committeeperson, the Township Clerk or Deputy Clerk, and the Chief
Financial Officer or Deputy Treasurer. After preparing checks for payment of
claims, the Chief Financial Officer shall record them in proper books of
account and thereafter mail or deliver the checks to the claimants.
('74 Code, § 6-5) (Ord. 46-1977, passed 12-27-77)
PAYROLL ACCOUNT
§ 34.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   There is hereby approved an account to be known as the “Township of Voorhees
Payroll Account,” to be established and administered by the Township Treasurer
who shall from time to time transfer such funds to the payroll account as may
be needed to compensate the officers and employees of the Township. The
transfers of funds shall be credited to the payroll account and charged against
the appropriate budgetary accounts on which they are drawn. Transfer vouchers
shall be submitted for approval or ratification, as the case may be, at regular
meetings of the Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. passed 1-12-67)
§ 34.16 MANNER OF MAKING PAYMENTS FROM ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The Treasurer is hereby authorized to sign checks drawn in favor of
the payroll account and shall draw checks on the account to the officers,
employees and agencies entitled to payment therefrom after written
certification of the amounts due by the department head, administrator or
supervising employee and in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   At each regular meeting of the governing body, the Treasurer shall
submit for approval or ratification, as the case may be, the amount due the
officers, employees and agencies for compensation or payment. The payroll shall
be considered by the governing body in due course and approved or ratified to
be correct and signed by the Mayor and Clerk.
   (C)   In case of error or adjustment in the payroll, the Treasurer shall,
and it shall be his duty to, see that such error or adjustment is properly
corrected and appropriate record made thereof.
('74 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. passed 1-12-67)
§ 34.17 PROPER RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to keep a proper record of the payroll
account in accordance with the requirements of the state statutes, Township
ordinances and the recommendations of the Division of Local Government and the
Township Auditor.
('74 Code, § 15-3) (Ord. passed 1-12-67)
§ 34.18 THIRD-PARTY PAYROLL DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose; definitions.
      (1)   The purpose and intent of these regulations is to abide by the
requirements of N.J.S.A. 52:27D-20.1 and N.J.A.C. 5:30-17.1 et seq., governing
electronic disbursement controls for payroll purposes.
      (2)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:
         APPROVAL OFFICER. Person(s) responsible for authorizing and
supervising the activities of the payroll service.
         PAYROLL SERVICE. Third-party payroll service organization.
         TOWNSHIP. Voorhees Township.
   (B)   Authorization.
      (1)   The Township is authorized to use a payroll service to prepare
payment documentation, take possession of Township funds, and make such
disbursements itself on behalf of the Township.
      (2)   The following payroll service providers shall be required to comply
with these regulations:
         (a)   Payroll service providers who use their own customized
programming process to execute disbursements for the Township; and
         (b)   Payroll service providers who use a third-party processor to
execute disbursements for the Township.
   (C)   Township requirements.
      (1)   The appointment of a payroll service shall be pursuant to the Local
Public Contracts Law, See N.J.S.A. 40A:11-1 et seq., and shall require the
contractor to do the following, not by way of limitation: data collection,
agency report preparation, calculation of withholding, direct deposit of
payroll disbursements, and/or transfer of Township funds to contractor’s
account for subsequent disbursement of payment.
      (2)   Any renewal or extension of a contract under these regulations
shall be by resolution.
      (3)   The Chief Financial Officer is hereby appointed the approval
officer and is responsible for authorizing and supervising the activities of
the payroll service and shall further be charged with the reconciliation and
analysis of all general ledger accounts affected by the activities of the
disbursing organization.
      (4)   If required by the contract between the Township and the payroll
service, the payroll service is permitted to hold Township funds pending
transmittal to a payee.
   (D)   Payroll service requirements.
      (1)   A payroll service must meet all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Report any irregularities that may indicate potential fraud,
noncompliance with appropriate laws, dishonesty, or gross incompetence on the
part of the approval officer; and
         (b)   Report circumstances that could jeopardize its ability to
continue operations or otherwise interrupt the services provided to the
Township.
      (2)   A payroll service must meet the requirements of N.J.A.C. 5:30-17.5,
requiring that the approval officer be assured that the servicer has its own
internal controls and appropriately guard against theft and other adverse
conditions.
      (3)   All contracts entered into pursuant to these regulations and the
laws authorizing the same shall comply with the requirements of N.J.A.C. 5:30-
17.6, which sets out a series of mandatory contractual terms and conditions.
   (E)   Establishment of service. Upon the adoption of these regulations, the
Business Administrator, with the assistance of the Chief Financial Officer and
Township Attorney, as necessary, is hereby authorized and directed to enter
into a contract for payroll service in accordance with all local public
contracting laws and N.J.A.C. 5:30-17.
(Ord. 440-23, passed 9-11-23)
HOTEL AND MOTEL ROOM OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 34.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Hotel and Motel Room Occupancy Tax which
shall be fixed at a uniform percentage rate of 1% on charges of rent for every
occupancy of a hotel or motel room in the Township on or after July 1, 2003,
but before July 1, 2004, and 3% on charges of rent for every occupancy of a
hotel or motel room in the Township on or after July 1, 2004, of a room or
rooms in a hotel subject to taxation pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:32B-3.
   (B)   The Hotel and Motel Room Occupancy Tax shall be in addition to any
other tax or fee imposed pursuant to statute or local ordinance or resolution
by any governmental entity upon the occupancy of a hotel room.
   (C)   The Hotel and Motel Room Occupancy Tax authorized herein shall not be
imposed on the rent for an occupancy if the purchaser, user or consumer is an
entity exempt from the tax imposed on an occupancy under the "Sales and Use Tax
Act" pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:32B-9).
   (D)   In accordance with the requirements of N.J.S.A. 40:48F-1:
      (1)   All taxes imposed by this section shall be paid by the purchaser;
      (2)   A vendor shall not assume or absorb any tax imposed by this
section;
      (3)   A vendor shall not in any manner advertise or hold out to any
person or to the public in general, in any manner, directly or indirectly, that
the tax will be assumed or absorbed by the vendor, that the tax will not be
separately charged and stated to the customer, or that the tax will be refunded
to the customer;
      (4)   Each assumption or absorption by a vendor of the tax shall be
deemed a separate offense and each representation or advertisement by a vendor
for each day that the representation or advertisement continues shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (E)   The tax imposed by this section shall be collected on behalf of the
Township by the person collecting the rent from the hotel or motel customer.
Each person required to collect the tax herein imposed shall be personally
liable for the tax imposed, collected or required to be collected hereunder.
Any such person shall have the same right in respect to collecting the tax from
a customer as if the tax were a part of the rent and payable at the same time;
provided that the Chief Financial Officer shall be joined as a party in any
action or proceeding brought to collect the tax.
(Ord. 33-03, passed 9-9-03)
CANNABIS MUNICIPAL TAX
§ 34.51 CANNABIS MUNICIPAL TAX.
   Pursuant to § 40 of the New Jersey Cannabis Regulatory, Enforcement and
Marketplace Modernization Act (CREAMMA), the following municipal tax shall be
collected from the following cannabis license holders:
   (A)   A 2% municipal transfer tax shall be imposed on the lawful sale of
cannabis produced by any Class I, II and V license holder.
   (B)   A 1% municipal transfer tax shall be imposed on the lawful sale of
cannabis produced by any Class III license holder.
   (C)   Payment of the municipal tax shall be paid directly to Voorhees
Township quarterly on the following dates of the calendar year: February 1, May
1, August 1, November 1.
   (D)   All revenues collected from cannabis taxation of the Voorhees Township
Code imposed by ordinance(s) pursuant to this section shall be remitted to the
Township’s Chief Financial Officer on a quarterly basis payable for the prior
three month’s activities. The revenues due on February 1 of each year shall
include all transfer taxes or user taxes collected for the prior year months of
October, November and December. The revenues due on May 1 of each year shall
include all transfer taxes and user taxes collected for the immediate prior
months of January, February and March. The revenues due on August 1 of each
year shall include all transfer taxes and user taxes collected for the
immediate prior months of April, May and June. The revenues due on November 1
of each year shall include all transfer taxes and user taxes collected for the
immediate prior months of July, August and September.
   (E)   Interest on late payments shall be assessed at 18% per annum. There
shall be a five-day grace period for late payments.
   (F)   In addition to the requirements, an annual report in conformance with
Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 19, Agreed-Upon Procedures
Engagements, or any superseding SSAE, as promulgated by the American Institute
of Certified Public Accounts must be provided to the Township within 90 days of
the entity’s fiscal year end. The report shall contain the following:
      (1)   Confirmation of total taxable receipt activity of the entity broken
out by taxation class.
      (2)   A recalculation of tax due to the Township.
      (3)   A reconciliation of tax due to the Township and tax remitted.
      (4)   Any over or under payment of tax due as a result will be adjusted
on the following quarter’s tax remittance.
   (G)   Failure to comply with the above policies may result in an entity’s
municipal cannabis license being revoked.
(Ord. 387-21, passed 8-9-21; Am. Ord. 437-23, passed 6-26-23; Am. Ord. 442-
2023, passed 10-10-23)
OPEN SPACE RECREATION AND FARMLAND TRUST FUND
§ 34.65 ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established an Open Space Trust Fund, which shall be
administered by the Township Committee. The Open Space Trust Fund shall be used
to finance the acquiring, improving and maintaining conservation or
recreational properties to protect the water quality of Township's rivers,
lakes, and streams, acquiring farmland for farmland preservation, acquiring
open space to preserve it in its natural state, or for the payment of debt
service incurred by the Township for these purposes, to be funded at a rate not
to exceed $0.035 per $100.00 of total Township equalized real property
valuation, with all funds subject to an annual, independent audit.
(Ord. 48-04, passed 5-10-04)
§ 34.66 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Township Committee is authorized to use the Open Space Trust Fund
to acquire all types of interests in real property including but not limited to
fee simple acquisitions, easements, licenses, and/or development rights or any
other lesser interest in real estate in the Township.
   (B)   The Township Committee shall determine the amount of funds to be used
for each acquisition of rights or property. The Township Committee shall also
determine what use may be made of any real property or property rights acquired
by use of the Open Space Trust Fund.
   (C)   The Open Space Trust Fund may also be used to acquire real property
that has improvements upon it at the time of acquisition, provided that the
Township Committee determines the principal purpose of the acquisition is
consistent with the goals expressed herein.
(Ord. 48-04, passed 5-10-04)
§ 34.67 FUNDING.
   (A)   The Open Space Trust Fund shall be established and maintained as a
separate account and shall be known and designated as the "Open Space Trust
Fund". A separate bank and/or investment account shall be opened and maintained
for this purpose. The Township Committee may invest funds in the Open Space
Trust Fund as provided in the Township's Cash Management Plan and Investment
Policy. Funds in the Open Space Trust Fund shall be used solely for the
purposes set forth in this chapter. Each year, the Open Space Trust Fund
account shall be introduced, adopted and included as part of the annual budget
approved by the State of New Jersey.
   (B)   The Open Space Trust Fund shall be funded through the collection of an
amount of $0.035 per $100.00 of assessed valuation of each annual Township
property tax levy commencing with the 2004 tax year and each year thereafter.
The Open Space Trust Fund shall also be permitted to accept grants, gifts,
donations and testamentary bequests. The funds accumulated within the Open
Space Trust Fund may be utilized to acquire all types of interests in real
property, including but not limited to, fee simple acquisitions, easements,
licenses, and/or development rights or any other lesser interest in real estate
in the Township for the purposes as provided in this Chapter or as a down
payment for the issuance of bonds for the same purpose at the discretion of the
Township Committee. Any and all interest accruing shall remain in the Open
Space Trust Fund and may be utilized for the above-described purposes.
(Ord. 48-04, passed 5-10-04)
§ 34.68 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY OR OTHER PROPERTY RIGHTS.
   No property or rights acquired with funds from the Open Space Trust Fund
shall be sold or otherwise disposed of by the Township unless the Township
Committee has authorized such disposition after and in accordance with a
binding public referendum.
(Ord. 48-04, passed 5-10-04)
§ 34.69 REVIEW.
   In the event that no property or property rights are acquired under this
subchapter for a period of five consecutive years, then the Township Committee
shall review its activities and issue a report with recommendations and
conclusions concerning the future use and disposition of the Open Space Trust
Fund. The Open Space Trust Fund may not be closed except in accordance with a
binding public referendum.
(Ord. 48-04, passed 5-10-04)
CONTROL OF CASH RECEIPTS
§ 34.75 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Township Committee wishes to impart to its employees the proper
methods in which to protect, accurately process, and properly report township
assets.
   (B)   CASH is defined as currency, coins, checks, money orders, credit and
debit cards, ACH online payments and electronic file transfers.
   (C)   All township departments are subject to audit, and each department
head must ensure that the department complies with all state regulations,
township policies and procedures, and any recognized standards for internal
controls as they relate to cash. (See N.J.S.A. 40A:5-9.)
   (D)   All employees assigned cash handling responsibilities must be
instructed regarding cash regulations and guidelines that their department must
follow.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.76 SEGREGATION OF DUTIES.
   (A)   Proper separation of duties reduces the likelihood that errors will
remain undetected by providing for independent reviews of work performed.
   (B)   No single employee, or group of employees, should be in a position to
perpetrate or conceal errors in the normal course of their duties.
   (C)   The job functions to be segregated are:
      (1)   Authorization to receive cash;
      (2)   Physical custody of cash; and
      (3)   Recording or reporting the transaction.
   (D)   Control over processing a transaction should not be performed by the
same individual responsible for recording or reporting the transaction.
   (E)   The Administration and/or Chief Financial Officer are responsible for
assigning job duties to enhance the protection of assets.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.77 SECURITY OF ASSETS.
   (A)   The township’s cash control guidelines are governed by the New Jersey
Local Fiscal Affairs Law. (See N.J.S.A 40A:5 et seq.)
   (B)   All funds received by any department shall, within 48 hours after the
receipt, either:
      (1)   Be turned over to the Chief Financial Officer, who shall deposit
the funds within 48 hours; or
      (2)   Be deposited by the department head.
   (C)   Any cash collected and not yet deposited, shall be kept in a locked,
secure storage area to which only designated individuals have access.
   (D)   Cash receipts should not be used for petty cash disbursements, check
cashing, making change, or for any personal purpose.
   (E)   Deposits made on a regular basis shall be transported by the Police
Department, or another employee designated by the Administrator and/or Chief
Financial Officer.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.78 CENTRAL CASHIER PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each township department should have its own pre-numbered receipt or
handwritten log.
   (B)   Each individual cash receipt should be identified and controlled by a
unique, sequential transaction number.
   (C)   All receipts should be turned over to the Tax Collector’s office on a
daily basis, who shall then prepare the deposit slip.
   (D)   Deposits shall be taken to the bank by the Tax Collector’s office on a
daily basis, pursuant to §
34.77(E).
   (E)   All receipts shall be recorded in the general ledger by the Chief
Financial Officer.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.79 REVIEW AND RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   Cash receipts must be counted and balanced to the cash recordings at
the end of each business day.
   (B)   A receipt for each deposit will be sent by the Tax Collector’s office
back to each department for their review.
   (C)   The Chief Financial Officer will verify that each cash receipt was
deposited to the proper account.
   (D)   Cash receipt and bank account reconciliations shall be done on at
least a monthly basis.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.80 CASH MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The plan shall be prepared by the Chief Financial Officer and adopted
by the Township Committee on an annual basis.
   (B)   The plan shall include a list of designated legal depositories as well
as an acknowledgment that each depository is GUDPA certified.
   (C)   The plan shall be subject to the annual audit.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.81 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Any significant change in cash receipt functions or responsibilities
must be approved by the Administrator and/or Chief Financial Officer.
   (B)   Any suspected loss or theft of funds must be immediately reported to:
      (1)   Department head; then
      (2)   Chief Financial Officer; then
      (3)   Administrator; then
      (4)   Police Department.
   (C)   Ordinary operating errors should be reported as overage/shortages, as
long as the amount is de minimis in nature.
(Ord. 221-12, passed 11-26-12)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of §
34.50 shall be a fine not to exceed $1,000 for each offense.
(Ord. 33-03, passed 9-9-03)
CHAPTER 34A: BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
Section
General Provisions
   
34A.01   Purpose
   
34A.02   Findings
Establishment of BID;
Special Assessments; Appeals
   
34A.10   Voorhees Town Center Business Improvement District
   
34A.11   Special assessments
   
34A.12   Appeal from inclusion in a BID
Establishment of BID Advisory Board;
Authority; Organization; Duties; Municipal Liaison
   
34A.20   BID Advisory Board established
   
34A.21   Authority of the Advisory Board; duties and responsibilities
   
34A.22   Members; terms; removal or resignation
   
34A.23   Officers; duties
   
34A.24   Municipal Liaison
Conduct of Meetings;
Rules and Regulations of Advisory Board
   
34A.30   Conduct of meetings
   
34A.31   Advisory Board rules and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34A.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish the Voorhees Town Center
Business Improvement District, (hereinafter the “BID”), within the Township of
Voorhees and to establish rules and regulations governing the organization,
operations and authority of the BID Advisory Board towards the goal of ensuring
that the statutory purposes of the BID, namely to promote economic and
employment growth within the BID and preserve and enhance the function and
appearance of the BID, is achieved.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.02 FINDINGS.
   In furtherance of the stated purpose, the Voorhees Township Committee finds
and declares as follows:
   (A)   That it is in the best interests of the Township of Voorhees to
maintain a business improvement district and that the areas within the Township
of Voorhees identified by block, lot and street number on Schedule A attached
to Ordinance No. 325-18 will benefit from being designated as the “Voorhees
Town Center Business Improvement District.”
   (B)   That the BID shall be governed by an Advisory Board, the members of
which shall be appointed by the Mayor pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:56-79, which
Advisory Board shall assist the Voorhees Township Committee in the management
of the BID towards the goal of benefitting the businesses, employees, residents
and consumers within the BID.
   (C)   That the BID shall be managed by the Township Committee, with the
advice and assistance of the Advisory Board, in the manner contemplated by law.
   (D)   That it is the intent of the Township Committee to establish the
Voorhees Town Center BID and to establish the Advisory Board in accordance with
the rules, regulations and/or guidelines for the organization and operation of
the Advisory Board as outlined in the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
ESTABLISHMENT OF BID; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; APPEALS
§ 34A.10 VOORHEES TOWN CENTER BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   There is hereby created and designated within the Township of Voorhees a
business improvement district to be known as the “Voorhees Town Center Business
Improvement District,” consisting of the properties identified and listed by
block, lot and street address on Schedule A attached to Ordinance No. 325-18,
as same may be amended from time to time by resolution of the governing body in
which a special assessment on property within said district shall be imposed
for the purposes of promoting the economic and general welfare of the district.
As used herein, “Voorhees Town Center Business Improvement District” also may
be referred to as the “Voorhees Town Center District,” “Voorhees Town Center
BID” or the “Voorhees Town Center Special Improvement District.”
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.11 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:56-65 et seq., the Voorhees Town Center BID
shall be subject to a special assessment on all properties within the Voorhees
Town Center District as identified in Schedule A attached to Ordinance No. 325-
18 for the purposes of promoting the economic and general welfare of the
Voorhees Town Center BID.
   (B)   All business properties within the Voorhees Town Center BID, including
all private, non-residential assessed properties or any residential properties
whose primary use is the operation of a business or commercial venture, are
deemed included in the assessing provisions of this chapter and are expressly
subject to potential assessment made for the purposes of supporting the
Voorhees Town Center BID.
   (C)   All properties consisting of rental apartments but also containing
retail, commercial or office use shall be subject to the special assessment
established herein for the benefit of the Voorhees Town Center BID, which
special assessment shall be based upon a pro-rata calculation of the ratio of
the retail, commercial or office use to the apartment use as shall be
established by the Voorhees Township Tax Assessor exercising reasonable
discretion.
   (D)   All of the monies collected by assessment pursuant to this chapter
shall be spent solely to benefit the Voorhees Town Center District consistent
with the goals and objectives set forth herein.
   (E)   The township shall transfer assessed payments to the BID Advisory
Board, quarterly on the fifteenth day of February, May, August and November, as
collected.
   (F)   Failure of any property owner to pay annual assessments shall be
treated in the same manner as a failure to pay property taxes, as provided for
in Title 54 of the New Jersey Statutes (N.J.S.A. Title 54).
   (G)   All costs of improvements and maintenance, other than those costs of
improvements and maintenance normally incurred by the Township of Voorhees out
of general funds, shall be determined and approved pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:56-
80 or N.J.S.A. 40:56-85, as determined by the BID Advisory Board. Assessments
shall be determined by multiplying the current assessed valuation, as
determined by the Tax Assessor of the township for real estate tax purposes,
multiplied by a rate or rates to be established based upon the tier
classification of each property. Such rates for the respective tiers shall be
subject to amendment and adjustment by the BID Advisory Board as is necessary
to assure a consistent and fair apportionment among the various property owners
within each tier classification. The basis for the different ratios between the
respective tiers is to apportion the assessments so that the assessment charged
most closely approximates the respective benefits received.
   (H)   Assessments shall be due and payable quarterly on February 1, May 1,
August 1 and November 1 of each year, with a ten-day grace period, after which
dates, if unpaid, shall become delinquent, with interest charged as set forth
below and reverting back to the due date on any quarterly installment of
assessments.
      (1)   For the first $1,500, the rate shall be 8% per annum.
      (2)   For all amounts in excess of $1,500, the rate shall be 18% per
annum.
   (I)   The Voorhees Township Tax Collector may affix a penalty not to exceed
6% of the delinquent assessment as billed prior to the end of the fiscal year
for the most recent fiscal year only.
   (J)   Unpaid special assessments shall become a lien against the underlying
property and shall be collectible in the same manner as any other municipal
property taxes and assessments as provided by the laws of the State of New
Jersey.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.12 APPEAL FROM INCLUSION IN A BID.
   (A)   Any owner of property included within a BID and subject to the special
assessment provisions of this chapter may file a written appeal to the Tax
Assessor requesting to be excluded from such BID and from the special
assessment provisions of this chapter. The written appeal shall detail the
factual basis for the request to be excluded from the BID and from the special
assessment provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a written appeal, the Tax Assessor shall investigate
the matter and conduct an informal hearing or conference within 30 days of
receipt of the appeal. Within ten days after the conclusion of the informal
hearing or conference, the Tax Assessor shall file a report and recommendation
with the Advisory Board and the governing body. The governing body shall review
the report and act upon the request to be excluded within 30 days of receipt of
the Tax Assessor’s report.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, the right to appeal
granted in this section shall be for the sole purpose of determining whether a
property should be included within a BID under the standards set forth in §
34A.11. It shall not be an appeal with regard to the amount of any special
assessment imposed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
ESTABLISHMENT OF BID ADVISORY BOARD; AUTHORITY; ORGANIZATION;
DUTIES; MUNICIPAL LIAISON
§ 34A.20 BID ADVISORY BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a BID Advisory Board which shall consist of seven or
more persons appointed by the Mayor pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:56-79, at least a
majority of whom shall be owners or occupants of properties included in the BID
pursuant to this chapter, or representatives of said owners or occupants; at
least one of which shall be a member of the governing body of Voorhees; and at
least one of which shall be a property owner or owner of a business or property
located within the geographic area identified in Schedule A attached to
Ordinance No. 325-18 and known as the “Voorhees Town Center BID.” As used
herein, “BID Advisory Board” may also be referred to as the “Advisory Board” or
the “Board.”
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.21 AUTHORITY OF THE ADVISORY BOARD; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall act in an advisory capacity to the governing
body in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and applicable law.
The Advisory Board shall have only the authority delegated to it in this
chapter in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   The duties and authority of the Advisory Board shall include the
following:
      (1)   To meet regularly to conduct the business of the Advisory Board as
set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   To establish, on an annual basis or such other interval requested
by the governing body, the goals of the BID and policies for the achievement of
those goals, and to evaluate the performance of and effectiveness of the
Advisory Board in achieving those goals;
      (3)   To prepare an annual budget for the BID no later than the Advisory
Board’s November meeting so as to ensure the budget will be reviewed and
approved by the full membership of the Board in time to present it to the
governing body by such date in December as the Township Clerk shall require;
      (4)   To establish all necessary procedures to properly discharge the
responsibility of sound financial management of the BID, including the regular
development and review of updated financial statements at all regular meetings
of the Board;
      (5)   To cause a financial audit to be conducted annually by an
independent accountant to be reviewed by the Board and submitted to the
governing body within four months of the close of the fiscal year;
      (6)   To seek bids for the products and services of professionals, such
as marketing agencies, designers, planners and/or engineers, as it deems
appropriate to fulfill its mission and to submit written recommendations to the
governing body for authorization and/or award of such bids prior to the
purchase of products or services and/or prior to payment of compensation for
same;
      (7)   To initiate and facilitate communications with the Voorhees
Township Planning Board, Voorhees Township Zoning Board of Adjustment and such
other township agencies and/or offices to better inform all decisions affecting
the business communities within the BID;
      (8)   To furnish recommendations and advice to the governing body with
respect to the development of a vision plan and/or overlay plan to guide the
development and/or improvement of properties within the BID, including
investigation of issues involving land use, zoning and development of
properties within the BID and preparation of reports and/or other written
recommendations thereon;
      (9)   To receive comments and requests from owners or occupants of
properties within the BID and from members of the public regarding activity,
improvement and/or events within the BID;
      (10)   To advocate for economic development activities that incorporate
sustainable development and smart growth principles;
      (11)   To nominate prospective new members of the Board for consideration
by the Mayor;
      (12)   To establish such committees as the Advisory Board deems necessary
for the thorough and efficient operation of the Board, including but not
limited to a nominating committee in furtherance of its authority to nominate
prospective new members of the Board as set forth above;
      (13)   To engage in such other activities as are customary for similarly-
situated boards with authority to oversee special improvement districts,
subject to the review and approval of the Township Engineer and/or governing
body, as the case may be, with respect to such activities as: litter clean-up
and control; providing recreational and rest areas and facilities; publicizing
and marketing the BID and the businesses therein; recruiting new businesses to
fill vacant commercial spaces within the BID towards the goal of balancing the
mix of business types and/or uses therein; organizing special events; and
providing temporary decorative lighting and/or greenery on properties within
the BID;
      (14)   To hire or retain a managing director, subject to the review and
approval of same by the governing body, to assist the Advisory Board in the
completion of its duties as set forth herein; and
      (15)   To hire or retain professionals or non-professionals, subject to
the review and approval of same by the governing body, to carry out services
deemed to benefit the businesses, employees, residents and consumers in the
BID.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.22 MEMBERS; TERMS; REMOVAL OR RESIGNATION.
   (A)   The members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall total no less than seven members who shall satisfy the criteria set forth
in this chapter.
   (B)   The term of each Board member shall be for a period of two years and
shall be staggered such that no less than three nor more than four of the terms
shall expire in any given year. The Mayor may appoint up to four members for a
longer term in order to achieve the intent of this section; provided that such
terms are only as long as is necessary to establish the staggered terms
contemplated herein. Once the staggered terms have been achieved, the maximum
two-year term shall be imposed for as long as this chapter is in effect.
   (C)   Advisory Board members shall serve no more than three consecutive
terms, and after at least a one-year hiatus, may serve for a maximum of three
additional consecutive terms.
   (D)   A member of the Advisory Board may resign but such resignation shall
not be effective unless it is provided in a written notice to the governing
body. The Mayor may remove any member of the Advisory Board upon 30 days’
written notice to the member to be removed, a copy of which notice also shall
be sent to the chairperson and secretary of the Board. The removal shall become
effective on the thirty-third day after such notice is placed in the mail or 30
days from the date such notice is hand-delivered and/or personally served upon
the member that is to be removed.
   (E)   The Mayor shall appoint a new member to fill any unexpired term of a
vacant seat created by resignation or removal pursuant to this section;
provided that if the unexpired term will expire less than 90 days after the
acceptance of resignation or effective date of removal as determined pursuant
to division (D) above, the Mayor may elect to wait to appoint a new member
until the expiration date of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.23 OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The BID Advisory Board shall have a chairperson, vice chairperson,
secretary and treasurer. The chairperson and vice-chairperson shall be
appointed annually by the Mayor. The positions of secretary and treasurer shall
be filled annually by township employees or other individuals designated by the
Mayor.
   (B)   Chairperson. The chairperson shall be responsible for the general
charge and supervision of the activities and affairs of the Advisory Board as
set forth herein. The chairperson’s duties shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   To preside at all meetings and/or hearings of the Advisory Board;
      (2)   To appoint members to standing and special committees pursuant to
§§
34A.30 and
34A.31;
      (3)   To serve as the officially recognized spokesperson for the Advisory
Board in communications with the governing body, including communicating the
majority viewpoints and positions of the Advisory Board as expressed at
scheduled meetings thereof;
      (4)   To prepare and/or approve the meeting agenda and supportive
literature, if any, at least 48 hours prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of
the Advisory Board;
      (5)   To call emergency meetings in accordance with the requirements of
the Open Public Meetings Act;
      (6)   To appoint liaisons with other official agencies or offices of the
township;
      (7)   To prepare annually a report of the activities of the Advisory
Board for each fiscal year and deliver same to the governing body within 60
days of the close of each fiscal year;
      (8)   To assure meetings of the Advisory Board are conducted in
accordance with Roberts Rules of Order and as otherwise provided in §§
34A.30 and
34A.31;
      (9)   To receive and distribute all correspondence of the Advisory Board,
as appropriate;
      (10)   To delegate to another officer of the Advisory Board, from time to
time, such of the chairperson’s duties set forth herein as may be appropriate;
and
      (11)   To perform such other duties of an Advisory Board chairperson as
may be prescribed by law and/or established in §§
34A.30 and
34A.31.
   (C)   Vice-chairperson. The duties of the vice-chairperson shall be as
follows:
      (1)   To preside over meetings in the absence of the chairperson;
      (2)   To perform the other roles and functions of the chairperson when so
directed by the chairperson or in the event the chairperson is unable to act as
determined pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§
34A.30 and
34A.31; and
      (3)   To perform such other duties of an Advisory Board vice-chairperson
as may be prescribed by law and/or established in §§
34A.30 and
34A.31.
   (D)   Secretary. The duties of the secretary shall be as follows:
      (1)   To record Board member attendance at all meetings;
      (2)   To record minutes at each meeting of the Advisory Board and present
the minutes to the members of the Advisory Board at least 48 hours prior to the
next meeting of the Board;
      (3)   To present the previous meeting’s minutes at scheduled meetings for
corrections, additions and/or approval by the Board;
      (4)   To keep records of the terms of the members of the Board and notify
each member and the Mayor by December 1 of each year of the expiring terms for
January appointments; and
      (5)   To perform such other duties of an Advisory Board secretary as may
be prescribed by law and/or established in §§
34A.30 and
34A.31.
   (E)   Treasurer. The duties of the treasurer shall be as follows:
      (1)   To prepare an annual budget for the BID no later than the November
meeting to be reviewed and approved by the Advisory Board for its presentation
to the governing body by the December deadline specified by the Township Clerk;
      (2)   To provide a regular account of the financial status of the BID,
including but not limited to preparing regular financial reports which shall be
presented at each Advisory Board meeting; and
      (3)   To oversee the preparation of an annual audit of the books,
accounts and financial transactions of the Advisory Board to be filed with the
governing body within four months of the close of the fiscal year in accordance
with N.J.S.A. 40:56-88 and to be filed with the New Jersey Department of
Community Affairs within five days of the filing of the audit with the
governing body; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties of an Advisory Board treasurer as may
be prescribed by law and/or established in §§
34A.30 and
34A.31.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.24 MUNICIPAL LIAISON.
   The township’s Director of Community and Business Development shall serve as
the Municipal Liaison, unless the governing body appoints, by resolution,
another individual to serve as the Municipal Liaison. The duties of the
Municipal Liaison shall include, but not be limited to, facilitating open
communications between the Board and the governing body and such other duties
and/or functions as the governing body may deem necessary to ensure such open
communications and to promote the coordination of efforts between the governing
body and the Board in furtherance of the purpose of the BID.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
CONDUCT OF MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS OF ADVISORY BOARD
§ 34A.30 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall hold regular meetings not less than six times
per year. The chairperson has authority to cancel and/or reschedule any meeting
or change the location thereof, provided that the secretary shall have
sufficient time to publish notice of cancellation in the time required by law.
The chairperson also may call a special meeting of the Advisory Board upon
adequate public notice as specified in the New Jersey Open Public Meetings Act.
   (B)   All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Open Public
Meetings Act, including the notice provisions thereof. It shall be the duty of
the secretary to give appropriate notice of the time, place and purpose of all
regularly-scheduled and special meetings. Such notice shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Township of Voorhees and shall be
posted in the Voorhees Township Municipal Building in accordance with law. If
possible, the notice required herein also may be posted on the official website
of the Township of Voorhees.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Advisory Board shall
constitute a quorum. A quorum shall be required to conduct any business of the
Advisory Board. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Advisory
Board, the members present shall cancel the meeting without any notice other
than an announcement to all those present. In the event a meeting is canceled
for lack of a quorum, the agenda shall be added to the agenda for the next
meeting of the Advisory Board and all action to be taken thereon shall be taken
at the next meeting of the Advisory Board where a quorum is present.
   (D)   Voting. All action of the Advisory Board shall require the affirmative
vote of a majority of those present (so long as same constitutes a quorum), it
being the intent that a MAJORITY shall mean at least one member in excess of
50% of the members present. Voting by proxy and/or voting by mail or email are
not valid methods of voting and any votes attempted to be cast by such methods
shall not be counted. A vote by a member who is participating by telephone
conference call pursuant to §
34A-31(F) shall be valid and shall be counted.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
§ 34A.31 ADVISORY BOARD RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The conduct of the Advisory Board and all members thereof shall be subject
to and in conformance with the following:
   (A)   All expenditures of the Advisory Board for any and all products or
services must be authorized in advance and in writing by the governing body.
   (B)   No part of the BID’s financial resources shall inure to the personal
benefit, either directly or indirectly, of any member of the Advisory Board, or
any relative thereof, or any business or business entity owned, either in whole
or in part, by any member of the Board, nor for the benefit of any other
private individual.
   (C)   Neither the Advisory Board nor any member thereof shall, in any manner
or to any extent, participate or intervene in any political campaign on behalf
of any candidate for public office of the Township of Voorhees, including the
publication and/or distribution of any statement, advertisement and/or
propaganda regarding same.
   (D)   All Advisory Board members are expected to attend every scheduled
meeting of the Board or, if a member is unable to attend, such member shall be
responsible for notifying the chairperson or secretary of their anticipated
absence, such notice being provided in advance of the meeting at which they are
unable to attend.
   (E)   All Advisory Board members are expected to serve on any committee to
which he or she is appointed and to attend said committee’s regularly scheduled
meetings. Nothing hereinabove shall be construed to prohibit any Board member
from attending a meeting of a committee to which he or she was not appointed;
provided, however, that the attendance of such member shall not be permitted if
such attendance would create a quorum of the Board; and provided further that
such member, if properly permitted to attend, shall not have a vote in any
action taken by the committee.
   (F)   A Board member may participate in a meeting of the Board or any
committee thereof by means of a telephone conference call; provided, however,
that the Board member must first notify the chairperson and secretary of his or
her intent to do so and shall make all necessary arrangements to ensure that
the telephonic conference call will operate as intended and will not cause a
nuisance, distraction or otherwise impede the progress of the meeting.
   (G)   Committees. Standing committees and special committees may be
established or dissolved by the chairperson of the Advisory Board as needed,
provided that any member of the Board may suggest the formation of a new
committee. Committees shall consist of as many Board members as do not
constitute a quorum of the full Advisory Board. Committees also may consist of
owners or occupants of properties within the BID who are not members of the
Advisory Board and/or such other persons who are not members of the Advisory
Board but who have an interest or stake in the success of the BID, including
but not limited to appropriate employees of the Township of Voorhees and
residents of the township and/or volunteers so long as such persons are not
related to or have an ownership interest in any business or property the owner
of which is a member of the Advisory Board. The chairperson shall, with their
consent, appoint members to committees and may appoint such other persons who
meet the requirements of this division (G) and agree to serve as a member
thereof. Actions taken by any committee shall be reported to the Advisory Board
at the next meeting following the committee meeting at which such action was
taken.
   (H)   The Township of Voorhees shall, to the extent legally permissible,
indemnify each person who may serve or who has served at any time as an officer
of the Advisory Board against all expenses and liabilities, including without
limitation, reasonable counsel fees, judgments, fines, penalties and settlement
payments reasonably incurred by or imposed upon such person in connection with
any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding in which he or
she may become involved by reason of his or her service in such capacity;
provided that no indemnification shall be provided for any such person with
respect to any matter as to which he or she shall have been found in any
proceeding not to have acted in good faith in the reasonable belief that such
action was in the best interests of the BID. The indemnification provided
hereunder shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators
of persons entitled to indemnification hereunder.
(Ord. 325-18, passed 5-29-18)
CHAPTER 34B: TAX ABATEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34B.01   Repealer and superseding
   
34B.02   Time of taking effect
   
34B.03   Tax exemptions and abatements authorized
   
34B.04   Improvements to multiple dwellings.
   
34B.05   Improvements to mixed-use, commercial and industrial structures
   
34B.06   Construction of new dwellings and multiple dwellings
   
34B.07   Construction of new, mixed-use, commercial and industrial structures
   
34B.08   Definitions
   
34B.09   Specific requirements
   
34B.10   Application procedure
   
34B.11   Approval process
   
34B.12   Payments in lieu of full property taxes
   
34B.13   Eligibility for additional construction or improvement
   
34B.14   Applicability of statutory and regulatory provisions
   
34B.15   Applicability of federal, state and local laws
   
34B.16   Equalization
   
34B.17   Application fee
   
34B.18   Escrow
Exemption for Home Improvements
   
34B.19   Definitions
   
34B.20   Eligibility; amount and duration; exception
   
34B.21   Method of determination of abatement
   
34B.22   Additional improvements
   
34B.23   Application requirement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34B.01 REPEALER AND SUPERSEDING.
   Chapter 34, §§ 34.30 to 34.39, inclusive, of the Township of Voorhees Code
are hereby superseded by this chapter.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.02 TIME OF TAKING EFFECT.
   This chapter authorizes the Township of Voorhees to grant exemptions and
abatements to commence and take effect in the 2019 tax year and thereafter.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.03 TAX EXEMPTIONS AND ABATEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   The Township hereby authorizes the utilization of tax exemption and tax
abatement in accordance with Chapter VIII, Section 1, paragraph 6 of the New
Jersey Constitution and establishes the eligibility of dwellings, multiple
dwellings, mixed-use structures, commercial and industrial structures for five-
year tax exemptions and abatements as authorized by N.J.S.A. 40A:21-1 et seq.,
throughout the entire municipality, only to the extent set forth herein.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.04 IMPROVEMENTS TO MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   Improvements to multiple dwellings are eligible for tax exemption for a
period of five years commencing with the completion of an improvement only if
in an area determined to be in need of redevelopment pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:
12A-6. The Tax Assessor’s full value of the improvements shall be regarded as
not increasing the value of the property for a period of five years commencing
with the completion of an improvement, notwithstanding that the value of the
property to which the improvements are made is increased thereby. During the
exemption period, the assessment on the property shall not be less than the
assessment existing thereon immediately prior to the improvement unless there
is damage to the multiple dwellings through action of elements or force majeure
sufficient to warrant a reduction. As used in this section, “improvements”
shall not be construed to include an increase in the number of dwelling units
nor the reduction of the total number of dwelling units to less than three. Any
such exemption or abatement shall be subject to the owner and Township entering
into a tax agreement as provided by N.J.S.A. 40A:21-10.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.05 IMPROVEMENTS TO MIXED-USE, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES.
   Improvements to mixed-use, commercial and industrial structures are eligible
for tax exemption for a period of five years commencing with the completion of
all improvements. The Tax Assessor’s full and true value of the improvements
shall be regarded as not increasing the value of the property, notwithstanding
that the value of the property to which the improvements are made is increased
thereby. During the exemption period, the assessment on the property shall not
be less than the assessment existing thereon immediately prior to the
improvements unless
there is damage to the structure through action of the elements or force
majeure sufficient to warrant a reduction.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.06 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW DWELLINGS AND MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   Construction of new dwellings and multiple dwellings shall be eligible for
tax exemption or abatement or both, commencing with the completion of each
individual dwelling unit only if in an area determined to be in need of
redevelopment pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-6.
   (A)   The applicant shall furnish to the municipality all the information
required by N.J.S.A. 40A:21-9. In addition, every applicant shall file the
application form prescribed by the Director of the New Jersey Division of
Taxation in the Department of Treasury with the Tax Assessor, as condition to
approval, within 30 days, including Saturdays and Sundays and legal holidays,
following the completion of the improvement. Every application for exemption or
abatement or both so filed shall be approved and allowed by the Tax Assessor to
the degree that the application is consistent with the provisions of this
chapter, provided that the improvements for which the application is made
qualifies as such pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and the tax
agreement. The granting of an exemption or abatement or both and tax agreement,
if appropriate, shall be recorded and made a permanent part of the official tax
records of the Township, which record shall contain a notice of termination
date thereof.
   (B)   No tax exemption or abatement shall be granted unless approved by
ordinance of the Township Committee on an individual basis after review,
evaluation and approval of each application for compliance with the terms of
this chapter and the underlying statute, rules and regulations.
   (C)   The tax agreement shall provide for the applicant to pay to the
Township in lieu of full property, tax payments to an amount annually to be
computed on a “Tax Phase-in” basis.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.07 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW, MIXED-USE, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURES.
   Construction of new mixed-use, commercial and industrial structures shall be
eligible for tax exemption or abatement or both, commencing with the completion
of the Project. Any such exemption or abatement shall be subject to the owner
and Township entering into a tax agreement as provided by N.J.S.A. 40A:21-10.
   (A)   The applicant shall furnish to the municipality all the information
required by N.J.S.A. 40A:21-9. In addition, every applicant shall file the
application form prescribed by the Director of the New Jersey Division of
Taxation in the Department of Treasury with the Tax Assessor, as condition to
approval, within 30 days, including Saturdays and Sundays and legal holidays,
following the completion of the improvement. Every application for exemption or
abatement or both so filed shall be approved and allowed by the Tax Assessor to
the degree that the application is consistent with the provisions of this
chapter, provided that the improvements for which the application is made
qualifies as such pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and the tax
agreement. The granting of an exemption or abatement or both and tax agreement,
if appropriate, shall be recorded and made a permanent part of the official tax
record of the taxing district, which record shall contain a notice of the
termination date hereof.
   (B)   No tax exemption or abatement shall be granted unless approved by
ordinance of the Township Committee on an individual basis after review,
evaluation and approval of each application for compliance with the terms of
this chapter and the underlying statute, rules and regulations.
   (C)   The tax agreement shall provide for the applicant to pay to the
Township in lieu of full property, tax payments an amount annually to be
computed on a “Tax Phase-in” basis.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACUTE CARE FACILITY. A facility providing nursing care to sick, invalid,
infirm, disabled or convalescent persons in addition to lodging and board or
health related service, or any combination of the foregoing.
   COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE. A structure or part thereof used for the
manufacturing, processing or assembling of materials or manufactured products
or for research, office, industrial, commercial, retail, recreational, hotel or
motel facilities or warehousing purposes, or for any combination thereof, which
the Township Committee determines will tend to maintain or provide gainful
employment within the Township, assist in economic development of the Township,
maintain or increase the tax base of the Township and/or maintain or diversify
and expand commerce within the Township. COMMERCIAL or INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE
shall not include any structure or part thereof used or to be used by any
business relocated from another qualifying municipality unless the total square
footage of the floor area of the structure or part thereof used or to be used
by the business at the new site together with the total square footage of the
land used or to be used by the business at the new site exceeds the total
square footage of the structure and the land utilized by the business at its
current site of operations by at least 10% and the property that the business
is relocating to has been the subject of a remedial action plan costing in
excess of $250,000, performed pursuant to an Administrative Consent Order
entered into pursuant to authority vested in the Commissioner of the Department
of Environmental Protection under N.J.S.A. 13:1D-1 et seq., the Water Pollution
Control Act, N.J.S.A. 58:10A-1 et seq., Solid Waste Management Act, N.J.S.A.
13:1E-1 et seq., and/or the Spill Compensation and Control Act, N.J.S.A. 58:10-
23.11 et seq.
   CONSTRUCTION. The erection or provision of a new commercial, industrial,
residential or mixed-use structures on vacant land within the Township.
   DWELLING. A building or part of a building used, to be used or held for use
as a home or residence, including accessory buildings located on the same
premises, together with the land upon which said building or buildings are
erected and which may be necessary for the fair enjoyment thereof, but shall
not include a building or part of a building defined as a ‘multiple dwelling’
pursuant to the Hotel and Multiple Dwelling Law, P.L.1967, c.76. A dwelling
shall include, as they are separately conveyed to individual owners, individual
residences within a cooperative, if purchased separately by the occupants
thereof, and individual residences within a horizontal property regime or a
condominium, but shall not include “general common elements” or “common
elements” thereof where residential units are owned separately.
   IMPROVEMENT. A modernization, rehabilitation, renovation, alternation or
repair which produces a physical change in an existing building or structure
that improves the safety, sanitation, decency or attractiveness of the building
or structure as a place for human habitation or work, and which does not change
its permitted use. In the case of a multiple dwelling, it includes only
improvements which affect common areas or elements, or three or more dwelling
units within the multiple dwelling. In the case of a multiple dwelling or
commercial or industrial structure, it shall not include ordinary painting,
repairs or replacement of maintenance items, or an enlargement of the volume of
an existing structure by more than 30%. In no case shall it include the repair
of fire or other damage to a property for which payment of a claim was received
by any person from  an insurance company at any time during the three year
period immediately preceding the filing of an application pursuant to this act.
   NURSING HOME. A facility providing nursing care to sick, invalid, infirm,
disabled or convalescent persons in addition to lodging and board or health
related service, or any combination of foregoing.
   PROJECT. The construction, improvement or conversion of a structure in an
area in need of redevelopment that would qualify for an exemption or an
exemption and abatement, pursuant to P.L. 1991, c.441 (C.40A:21-1 et seq.).
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.09 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   To be considered for tax abatement, a new commercial or industrial structure
must contain a minimum of 5,000 square feet of floor space for use. An
enlargement of an existing commercial or industrial structure must be more than
30% of the existing volume of the structure as defined in N.J.S.A. 40A:21-3g.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.10 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   A property owner or developer who believes that its project is an eligible
project may apply for the five year tax exemption and abatement program by
filing with the Township Committee an application for such program on the form
prescribed by the Director of the Division of Taxation, Department of Treasury,
if any, copies of which will be available through the Township Clerk. Such
application shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
   (A)   A general description of a project for which the exemption is sought.
   (B)   A legal description of all real estate necessary for the project.
   (C)   Plans, drawings and other documents to demonstrate the structure and
design of the project. If site plan approval is necessary for the project, a
copy of the full set of site plan drawings and architectural plans shall be
submitted.
   (D)   A description of the number, classes and type of employees to be
employed at the project site within two years of completion of the project.
   (E)   A statement of the reasons for seeking tax exemption on the project
and a description of the benefits to be realized by the applicant and the
Township if a tax exemption is granted.
   (F)   Estimates of the cost of completing the project, together with the
expected method or plan of financing the improvements.
   (G)   A construction time schedule and projected implementation schedule.
   (H)   A statement showing the real property taxes currently being assessed
at the project site; estimated payments in lieu of taxes that would be made
annually by the applicant on the project during the period of the exemption;
and estimated tax payments that would be made by the applicant on the project
during the first full year following the termination of the exemption.
   (I)   A description of any lease agreement between the applicant and
proposed users of the project and a history and description of the users’
businesses.
   (J)   A disclosure statement of the interests of all parties, including
subsidiary companies, in the property project.
   (K)   The original signature of the applicant and, if the applicant is not
the owner, the owner notarized, accompanied by a corporate resolution, if
appropriate, authorizing the execution and delivery of application and the tax
abatement agreement if approved.
   (L)   A Contribution Disclosure Statement (as defined in § 150.10 of the
Township Code).
   (M)   Evidence that all real property taxes currently assessed against the
property are paid in full
and that the Township holds no outstanding tax lien against the property.
   (N)   A description of other projects the applicant has completed in the
Township and Camden County within the last five years.
   (O)   Such other pertinent information as the Township Committee may require
on a case- by-case basis.
   (P)   In the event a construction permit is not issued within one year from
the date the application is filed, the application shall be deemed null and
void.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.11 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   An application for the five-year tax exemption and must be filed with
the Township Clerk no sooner than the date the applicant receives preliminary
site plan approval for the project from the applicable reviewing board and no
later than the date the applicant receives a building permit to construct an
eligible structure on the property.
   (B)   The Clerk shall make a determination as to whether the applicant has
provided all of the materials and information required under this chapter. If
the Clerk determines that all of the materials and information have been
provided, the application will be deemed complete and the Clerk shall forward
the application to the Township Committee for determination, including with the
application the date that the application is deemed complete and the date that
the 45 day period referenced in division (E) below shall expire.
   (C)   If the Township Committee determines that the project complies with
the intent and purpose of this chapter and qualifies for participation in the
five year tax exemption, the Township Committee shall adopt an ordinance
authorizing the Township to enter into a five year tax exemption and abatement
agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Township.
   (D)   No exemptions shall be granted for any property for which property
taxes or any other municipal charges are delinquent or remain unpaid or for
which penalties for nonpayment are due.
   (E)   Each application shall be reviewed and acted upon on an individual
basis by project. The Township Committee shall either approve or deny the
application within 45 days after the application is deemed complete. Failure of
the Township Committee to act within the required time shall be deemed a denial
without prejudice, allowing the applicant to reapply. If the application is
denied, the notice of the decision shall state the reasons for the denial.
   (F)   The agreement shall provide that the payment in lieu of taxes shall be
billed and collected in the same manner as conventional taxes, and any
arrearages, in addition to accruing interest at the rate charged for delinquent
real estate taxes, shall be subject to lien and foreclose.
   (G)   The agreement shall also provide that it is terminable by the Township
if, within ten days after receiving written notice of the amount due, the
taxpayer fails to pay all amounts due under the agreement in full. If the
Township exercises this right, upon termination, the local property taxes due
for all the prior years subject to exemption and for the current year shall be
payable as if no exemption had been granted. The Township Committee shall
notify the property owner and the Tax Collector of such disqualification and
the Tax Collector shall notify the property owner within 15 days of the date of
termination of the amount of taxes due.
   (H)   The Township Clerk shall forward a copy of all executed tax exemption
agreements to the Director of the Division of Local Government Services in the
Department of Community Affairs within 30 days after the date of execution.
   (I)   In the event that a property owner subject to a tax exemption and
abatement agreement ceases to operate or disposes of the property or fails to
meet the conditions for qualifying for the exemption, the local property taxes
due for all the prior years subject to exemption and for the current year shall
be payable as if no exemption had been granted. The Township Committee shall
notify the property owner and the Tax Collector of such disqualification and
the Tax Collector shall notify the property owner within 15 days of the date of
disqualification of the amount of taxes due. In the event the subject property
has been transferred to a new owner and it is determined that the new owner
will continue to use the property pursuant to the qualifying conditions, no tax
shall be due, the exemption shall continue and the agreement shall remain in
effect.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.12 PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF FULL PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   All tax abatement agreements must be authorized by a separate
ordinance for each application.
   (B)   A tax abatement agreement shall provide for the applicant to pay to
the Township in lieu of full property tax payments an amount annually to be
computed by the following formula:
Tax phase-in basis — The applicant must pay to the Township in lieu of full
property tax payments an amount equal to a percentage of taxes otherwise due,
according to the following schedule:
      (1)   In the first full tax year from date of completion, no payment in
lieu of taxes unless otherwise due;
      (2)   In the second tax year from date of completion, an amount not less
than 20% of taxes otherwise due;
      (3)   In the third tax year from date of completion, an amount not less
than 40% of taxes otherwise due;
      (4)   In the fourth tax year from date of completion, an amount not less
than 60% of taxes otherwise due;
      (5)   In the fifth tax year from date of completion, an amount not less
than 80% of taxes otherwise due.
   (C)   All tax agreements entered into by virtue of this chapter shall be in
effect for no more than five full tax years from the date of completion of the
project. Within 30 days of the execution of a tax abatement agreement, the
Township shall forward a copy of said agreement to the Director of the Division
of Local Government Services in the Department of Community Affairs.
   (D)   No exemption or abatement shall be granted, or tax agreement entered
into, with respect to any property for which property taxes are delinquent or
remain unpaid, or for which penalties for non-payment of taxes are due.
   (E)   If during any tax year prior to the termination of the tax agreement,
the property owner
ceases to operate or disposes of the property, or fails to meet the conditions
for qualifying, then the tax which would have otherwise been payable for each
tax year shall become due and payable from the property owner as if no
abatement had been granted. The Township governing body shall notify the
property owner and the Tax Collector of the disqualification, and upon such
notice, the Tax Collector shall within 15 days thereof notify the owner of the
property of the taxes due and payable to the Township. With respect to the
disposal of property, where it is determined that the new owner of the property
will continue to use the property pursuant to the conditions which qualified
the property for tax abatement, no tax shall be due, the abatement shall
continue and the agreement shall remain in effect.
   (F)   At termination of the tax abatement agreement, the property shall be
subject to all applicable real property taxes as provided by law; but nothing
herein shall prohibit a project, at the termination of an agreement, from
qualifying for and receiving the full benefits of any other tax preferences
provided by law.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.13 ELIGIBILITY FOR ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION OR IMPROVEMENT.
   An additional improvement or construction, completed on a property granted a
previous exemption or abatement during the period in which such previous
exemption or abatement is in effect, shall be qualified for an exemption and/or
abatement just as if such property had not received a previous exemption or
abatement. In such case, the additional improvements or construction shall be
considered as separate for the purposes of calculating exemptions and
abatements, except that the assessed value of any previous improvement or
construction shall be added to the assessed valuation of the property from
which any additional abatement is to be subtracted.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.14 APPLICABILITY OF STATUTORY AND REGULATORY PROVISIONS.
   Every application for exemption or abatement and every exemption and
abatement granted shall be subject to all of the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40A:21-
1 et seq. and all rules and regulations issued thereunder.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.15 APPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL LAWS.
   All tax abatement and exemption agreements shall provide that the applicant
is subject to all federal, state and local laws and regulations.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.16 EQUALIZATION.
   The percentage which the payment in lieu of taxes bears to the property
taxes which would have been paid had an abatement not been granted for the
property under the agreement shall be applied to the valuation of the property
to determine the reduced valuation of the property to be included in the
valuation of the municipality for determining equalization for county
appointment and school aid during the term of the tax abatement agreement
covering the property.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.17 APPLICATION FEE.
   An application fee in an amount required under the Township Fee Ordinance
shall be paid by the applicant at the time of application. The application fee
will provide for the administrative services to be undertaken by the Township
Tax Assessor, and any other Township official, in order to render a
determination on the applicant’s eligibility for a tax abatement. The filing
fee shall cover the cost for both the application and application review and
determination process.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.18 ESCROW.
   (A)   Every tax abatement agreement required by this chapter shall be
subject to payment of a nonrefundable escrow in the amount of $1,000 to be paid
by the applicant at the time the applicant submits an application. The required
escrow shall be used to pay the cost of professional review by the Township
Solicitor, Engineer, and other professionals employed by the Township to review
and make recommendations regarding the tax abatement agreement.
   (B)   At the time of submission of an application to the Township, the
applicant shall be required to execute an escrow agreement with the Township to
cover all necessary and reasonable costs incurred for the technical and
professional review of the tax abatement agreement. The amounts specified for
escrow are estimates which shall be paid prior to the Township’s review of the
tax abatement application. In the event an additional amount is required for
more than the amount specified in the escrow agreement, the applicant shall pay
all additional sums required prior to the Township’s execution of the tax
abatement agreement.
   (C)   To the extent not otherwise inconsistent with this section, the escrow
fee required by this chapter shall be administered by the Chief Financial
Officer of the Township in the manner and as set forth generally in the Code of
the Township of Voorhees.
   (D)   The Township Clerk or his/her designee shall maintain an itemized
account of the escrow on deposit for each application and shall, upon the
request of the applicant, supply a copy of said account.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
EXEMPTION FOR HOME IMPROVEMENTS
§ 34B.19 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLETION. Substantially ready for the use for which an improvement is
intended.
   DWELLING. A building or part of a building used, to be used or held for use
as a home or residence, including accessory buildings located on the same
premises, together with the land upon which said building or buildings are
erected and which may be necessary for the fair enjoyment thereof, but shall
not include a building or part of a building defined as a “multiple dwelling”
pursuant to the Hotel and Multiple Dwelling Law, P.L. 1967, c.76. A dwelling
shall include, as they are separately conveyed to individual owners, individual
residences within a cooperative, if purchased separately by the occupants
thereof, and individual residences within a horizontal property regime or a
condominium, but shall not include general common elements” or ‘common
elements’ thereof where residential units are owned separately.
   IMPROVEMENT. A modernization, rehabilitation, renovation, alteration or
repair of a dwelling which produces a physical change in the  existing building
or structure that improves the safety, sanitation, decency and attractiveness
of the building or structure as a place for human habitation and which does not
change its permitted use.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.20 ELIGIBILITY; AMOUNT AND DURATION; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   In determining the value of real property for the purpose of taxation,
the first $25,000 of the Tax Assessor’s full and true value of improvements
made to each dwelling primarily and directly affected by completion of an
improvement in any single or multi-dwelling property more than 20 years old
shall be regarded as not increasing the value of such property for a period of
five years, notwithstanding that the value of the dwelling to which said
improvements are made has increased thereby. In no event, however, shall the
assessment during that period be less than the assessment thereon existing
immediately prior to such home improvements unless there shall be destruction
through the action of the elements sufficient to warrant a reduction.
   (B)   Exception. Eligibility for a tax abatement pursuant to this chapter
shall not apply, and a tax abatement applied to any property pursuant hereto
shall automatically terminate, during any tax year in which a municipal-wide
property revaluation takes effect in accordance with the New Jersey Tax Law, it
being the intent and purpose that the revaluation year tax assessment shall
include and/or account for the value of improvements that are otherwise
eligible for abatement in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.21 METHOD OF DETERMINATION OF ABATEMENT.
   The true taxable value of improvements up to $25,000 shall be deducted by
the Tax Assessor on October 1 of any year, following the completion of the
improvements, and shall continue to be so treated for a total of five
successive tax years including the initial tax year for which the original
determination by the Tax Assessor was made.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.22 ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   Additional improvements completed during the period in which the improved
property is subject to a previously granted abatement under this chapter in an
amount less than the maximum abatement amount shall likewise qualify for
abatement pursuant to this chapter, provided that in no year shall the total
abatement for any single property exceed $25,000.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
§ 34B.23 APPLICATION REQUIREMENT.
   A property owner andlor claimant seeking an abatement pursuant to this
chapter shall file a written application with the Tax Assessor in the form
required by the Township.
(Ord. 355-19, passed 10-28-19)
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Establishment of policies and procedures
   
35.02   Objectives
   
35.03   Distribution of policies; amendments; access to records
   
35.04   Construal of provisions
   
35.05   Residency preference for employment
   
35.06   Salaries and compensation
   
35.07   Employee Handbook adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Indemnification for legal liabilities and expenses, see §
38.20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Township Committee, from time to time, may adopt and implement policies
and procedures regulating the employees of the Township. such policies and
procedures will be in conformance with the Department of Personnel laws and
regulations, N.J.S.A. 11A-1 et seq. and N.J.A.C. 4A:1-1 et seq., and any
collective bargaining or other employment agreement or contract affecting the
specific employee.
§ 35.02 OBJECTIVES.
   In its personnel notices and practices, it is the aim of the Township:
   (A)   To promote efficiency in the conduct of public business.
   (B)   To provide all employees with proper supervision, instruction and
working conditions so that they may render the best possible service.
   (C)   To make the best possible use of employee skills and abilities.
   (D)   To expect each employee consistently to perform to the best of his or
her ability and to be conscientious in his or her work.
   (E)   To pay fair and adequate salaries or wages for each position and in
return to expect a consistently good job.
   (F)   To assure fair and impartial treatment for all employees.
('74 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 149-1981, passed 3-9-81)
§ 35.03 DISTRIBUTION OF POLICIES; AMENDMENTS; ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (A)   Each full-time employee shall receive a copy of the personnel policies
and practices of the Township, and will study the policies, practices and rules
set forth therein. Each is expected to sign a statement signifying that he
received a copy of the policies, practices, and rules, and agrees to conform to
them and to return the statement to the Administrator for placement in his
personnel file.
   (B)   Copies of all changes, additions or deletions will be issued to each
employee to be kept with his or her copy of the personnel policies and
practices of the Township. Each employee will sign an acknowledgment of the
change to be given to the Administrator for placement in the employee's
personal history file.
('74 Code, § 16-14) (Ord. 149-1981, passed 3-9-81)
§ 35.04 CONSTRUAL OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed in derogation of any federal or state
statutes or rules promulgated thereunder, nor shall it be construed in
derogation of any lawful provision of any contract duly executed between the
Township and any of its employees.
('74 Code, § 16-15) (Ord. 149-1981, passed 3-9-81)
§ 35.05 RESIDENCY PREFERENCE FOR EMPLOYMENT.
   Preference for employment in all positions with the Township, which
employment requires the applicant to pass an open, competitive examination to
be eligible for such employment, wherever possible and as the Township
Committee deems appropriate, shall be given to applicants who are full-time
residents of the Township at the time of application, as of the announced
closing date of the examination and from the announced closing date up to and
including the date of appointment.
('74 Code, § 16-15.1) (Ord. 794-97, passed 4-28-97)
§ 35.06 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The currently effective salary ordinance of the Township is on file in
the office of the Township Clerk and is available for examination during office
hours.
   (B)   (1)   All full time employees and elected public officials who receive
compensation from the Township are mandated to have direct deposit of their
compensation as of January 1, 2017, in accordance with state law.
      (2)   Seasonal and temporary employees who are employed by the Township
are exempt from the direct deposit mandate.
('74 Code, Ch. 23) (Am. Ord. 291-16, passed 11-14-16)
§ 35.07 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Employee Handbook attached to ordinance 04-2000 is hereby adopted in its
entirety. A copy of this Employee Handbook shall be immediately delivered to
all employees, professionals and volunteers of the Township. Upon adoption of
this section, the Township Administrator is hereby instructed to apply for MEL
Employment Practices Liability Coverage.
(Ord. 04-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 38-03, passed 12-29-03; Am. Ord. 132-
08, passed 5-12-08; Am. Ord. 136-08, passed 9-8-08; Am. Ord. 137-08, passed 12-
8-08; Am. Ord. 144-09, passed 5-11-09)
CHAPTER 36: FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Fees to be charged and collected
   
36.02   Transcripts
   
36.03   Returned check fee
   
36.04   Escrow fees
   
36.05   Return of fees paid upon withdrawal of application
   
36.06   Schedule of domestic consumer units for sewer service charges
   
36.07   Exemption from sewer service fees
   
36.08   Rounding of fees
   
36.09   Marriage and civil union ceremonies
   
36.10   Fees for marriage and civil union ceremonies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 FEES TO BE CHARGED AND COLLECTED.
   The Township is hereby authorized and directed to charge fees for services
and materials extended and furnished to or for the benefit of any individual
person or entity. The Township committee shall adopt annually a schedule of
fees by ordinance. Such fees and charges may be amended from time to time by
the Township Committee. If any fee established by the Township Committee
conflicts with a mandatory fee established by state or federal law, regulation,
order, or rule, such state or federal fee will govern.
(Am. Ord 909-99, passed 2-22-99; Am. Ord. 915-99, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord 931-
99, passed 4-26-99; Am. Ord. 943-99, passed 8-9-99; Am. Ord. 951-99, passed 9-
27-99; Am. Ord. 30-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 36.02 TRANSCRIPTS.
   Whenever an applicant requests a verbatim transcript of a recorded
proceeding, he shall be given the option to arrange, through the Township
Clerk, for the transcription of the recording by anyone on his own selection,
the cost of which is to be paid by the applicant; or the Township will, through
the Township Clerk, arrange for the transcription, the cost of which will be
paid by the applicant.
('74 Code, § 61-1)
§ 36.03 RETURNED CHECK FEE.
   (A)   If a check or other negotiable instrument delivered to the Township or
any agency or instrumentality thereof in payment of any tax, fee, assessment,
fine, interest, late charge escrow, judgment or other debt due and owing from
such person or entity pursuant to any law, rule, regulation, ordinance,
resolution or code provision of the state, county or the Township or pursuant
to any contract or agreement to which the Township is a party is returned to
the Township as uncollectible due to insufficient funds or other reasons, there
shall be added to the amounts due from such person or entity to the Township a
service charge as established by the Township Committee per check or other
negotiable instrument per return.
   (B)   Service charges which become due pursuant to division (A) above shall
be collected in the same manner as the original tax, fee, assessment, fine,
interest, late charge, escrow, judgment or other debt may be collected. Such
service charges attributable to payment of taxes or special assessments shall
be included on the list of delinquent accounts prepared for the enforcement of
the lien of such tax or special assessment.
   (C)   Payment of the original tax, fee, assessment, fine, interest, late
charge, escrow, judgment or other debt and all service charges due pursuant to
this chapter after any check or other negotiable instrument for the original
payment thereof is returned uncollected due to insufficient funds or other
reasons shall only be accepted by the Tax Collector or other authorized officer
if presented in the form of cash or a certified or cashier's check.
('74 Code, § 61-3) (Ord. 539-1991, passed 3-11-91)
§ 36.04 ESCROW FEES.
   (A)   All fees other than application fees and miscellaneous fees shall be
escrow fees to pay the services of any professional personnel employed by the
Planning Board, Zoning Board or Township Committee to process, review, inspect,
study or make recommendations to such Planning Board, Zoning Board or Township
Committee concerning the nature and substance of the applicant's application
and/or to pay the services of any such professional personnel and the costs and
expenses incurred by such professional personnel and/or the Planning Board,
Zoning Board and/or Township Committee to create, amend or modify, including
but not limited to the costs and expenses to draft, finalize and publish the
official Tax Map and/or Zoning Map of the Township, which creation, amendment
and/or modification is necessitated by the approval of the applicant's
application.
   (B)   If during the existence of this escrow account the balance of funds
held by the Township shall be insufficient to cover vouchers submitted by the
professionals, the applicant shall deposit additional sums with the Township to
cover the amount of the deficit and the anticipated amount to cover all
remaining work within ten days after receipt of written notice from the
Township Finance Office of the amounts owed. In the event that an applicant
fails to deposit the additional escrow moneys as required within the time set
forth in this division, the Township, through its agents and employees, shall
take whatever action deemed necessary in order to compel the payment of the
escrow amount. In addition, the professional personnel may take any action
individually as they deem necessary to satisfy the vouchers submitted.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any applicant who does not deposit such
additional escrow moneys within 30 days after receipt of written notice from
the Township Finance Office of the amounts owed shall be charged a late fee
equal to 1½% times the amounts owed from the date such sums were due pursuant
to such notice until paid in full (including all accrued late fees). No permit,
approval or certificate shall be issued to any applicant or property owner by
the Planning Board, Zoning Board of Adjustment, Zoning Officer, Township
Committee, Township Clerk or any other agency of the township unless all
amounts owed pursuant to this section by such applicant or owner or with
respect to the subject property are paid in full.
   (C)   All excess moneys in the escrow account will be returned at the time
of final release of maintenance bonds for improvements to the applicant with a
statement of money expended against the account. If at any time prior to final
approval the applicant elects to withdraw his request for approval and abandon
the project, any moneys remaining in the escrow account, after all proper
charges have been paid, will be returned to the applicant with a statement of
money expended against the account.
('74 Code, § 61-7) (Ord. 440-1989, passed 3-13-89; Am. Ord. 535-1991, passed 2-
25-91; Am. Ord. 545-1991, passed 4-22-91)
§ 36.05 RETURN OF FEES PAID UPON WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   If an applicant for site plan approval, subdivision approval, a marriage,
birth or death certificate or a zoning permit or certificate of conformance
withdraws such application or request prior to action by the Planning Board or
Zoning Board of Adjustment or issuance of the permit or certificate, the fees
paid for such approval, permit or certification pursuant to this Chapter 36
shall be refunded to the applicant, except that the Township shall be permitted
to retain such portion of such fees as shall pay for actual out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by the Township in connection with such application
(including but not limited to engineering and legal review charges) and an
administrative charge equal to 25% of the fees paid by such applicant.
('74 Code, § 61-8) (Ord. 586-1991, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 629-1992, passed
12-30-92)
§ 36.06 SCHEDULE OF DOMESTIC CONSUMER UNITS FOR SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The following schedule will be used to calculate the sewer service charge
for each customer or property:
User Category Domestic Customer Units Schedule Category Domestic Customer Units
User Category               Domestic Customer Units     Domestic Customer Units
                            Schedule Category
1-family unit               Per residential unit        1.00
                            The greater of: per 3,000
Commercial property not     square feet or per 300
specifically covered        gallons per day of          1.00
elsewhere herein            wastewater discharged or
                            fraction thereof to local
                            sewerage
Rented rooms                Per room for rent           0.25
                            For the residential unit
                            and business without sewer
Single-family property with use                         1.00
place of business           1. For business with sewer  xxx
                            use: see applicable
                            category
                            Per room
                            Plus units for the
                            following facilities
                            therein:
                            1. For each swimming pool
                            facility
                            2. For each restaurant,     0.33
                            diner, fountain or bar, for 1.00
Hotels and motels           every 25 seats or fraction  1.00
                            thereof                     1.00
                            3. For each banquet or      0.50
                            catering facility, for
                            every 100 seats or fraction
                            thereof
                            4. For each washing
                            machine, regardless of
                            capacity
Apartments                  Per residential unit        1.00
Schools (public or          Per 30 students, faculty,
private); day-care          staff, employees or         1.00
facilities                  fraction thereof
                            Per church/house of worship
                            Plus units for the
Churches/religious          following facilities
institutions; schools or    therein:                    1.00
day-care facilities herein  1. School and/or day-care
                            facilities therein, for
                            every 30 persons or
                            fraction thereof
                            For every 4 employees or
                            fraction thereof
                            Plus units for the
                            following facilities
                            therein:
Clubs, societies, service   1. For each swimming pool   1.00
organizations, recreation   facility therein            1.00
centers, indoor tennis/     2. For each restaurant,     1.00
racket ball clubs, etc.     diner, fountain or bar, for 1.00
                            every 25 seats or fraction
                            thereof
                            3. For each banquet or
                            catering facility, for
                            every 100 seats or fraction
                            thereof
Correctional facility and
24-hour health-care         For every bed               0.50
facilities
Public buildings            Per 30 employees or         1.00
                            fraction thereof
Service stations with car
wash; garages
Car wash (with or without   Per location                3.00
service stations) includes
self-service
Service stations without    Per location                2.00
car washing facilities
                            For each restaurant, diner,
                            fountain or bar, for every
Diners, taverns and         25 seats or fraction
restaurants; banquet/       thereof 1. For each banquet 1.00
catering facilities         or catering facility, for
                            every 100 seats or fraction
                            thereof
Laundromat or self-service  For each washing machine,   0.50
laundry                     regardless of capacity
Supermarkets                Per 5 employees or fraction 1.00
                            thereof
                            The greater of: per 12
                            employees or fraction
Industrial plants;          thereof or per 300 gallons  1.00
warehouses                  per day of wastewater
                            discharge or fraction
                            thereof to local sewerage
Bakeries; retail            Per location                2.00
                            Per 100 seating capacity or
Theaters or movie houses    car stalls or fraction      1.00
                            thereof
Hospitals                   Per every 2 beds or         1.00
                            fraction thereof
Combination of above        As provided in each
categories                  category
§ 36.07 EXEMPTION FROM SEWER SERVICE FEES.
   The following properties shall be exempt from the sewer service fee:
   One-family detached and attached townhomes and condominium units which are
occupied solely by persons who are:
   (A)   Sixty-five years old or older;
   (B)   Permanently and totally disabled; or
   (C)   The surviving spouse of the household who is over the age of 55 years;
and
   (D)   Qualify for a tax deduction under N.J.S.A. 54:4-8:40 et seq.
§ 36.08 ROUNDING OF FEES.
   All provisions of the Township Code providing for enforcing plan reviews,
construction permits, certificates of occupancy, certificates of continued
occupancy, demolition permits, elevator permits and sign permits, including,
but not limited to, inspection fees and performance guarantees, which are not
specifically stated in the Township Code as a set dollar amount, shall be
calculated and then rounded to the nearest dollar. All calculated amounts where
the fractional amount is .50000 or less will be rounded down. All calculated
amounts where the fractional .50001 or higher will be rounded up.
(Ord. 854-97, passed 12-8-97)
§ 36.09 MARRIAGE AND CIVIL UNION CEREMONIES.
   There is hereby established by and within the Township a section setting
forth policies and procedures concerning the payment of and/or disbursement of
fees to the Mayor for services in connection with the performance of marriage
and civil union ceremonies.
(Ord. 102-07, passed 4-10-07)
§ 36.10 FEES FOR MARRIAGE AND CIVIL UNION CEREMONIES.
   (A)   Persons seeking to be married or joined in civil union by the Mayor or
Deputy Mayor of the Township shall pay to the Township a fee of $150 for such
services. The Mayor or Deputy Mayor is authorized to waive such fee for
residents of the Township.
   (B)   The Township shall be paid for all marriage and civil union ceremonies
immediately upon completion of any such marriage or civil union ceremony. The
fees shall be deposited into the current fund, payable to the Township of
Voorhees.
   (C)   The Township shall disburse to the Mayor or Deputy Mayor the full
amount collected for any such marriage or civil union ceremony on a monthly
basis and shall pay the Mayor or Deputy Mayor accordingly.
(Ord. 102-07, passed 4-10-07; Am. Ord. 223-12, passed 12-10-12)
CHAPTER 37: ETHICS
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Candidates to be informed of Code of Ethics
   
37.03   Code of Ethics
   
37.04   Procedures relating to conflicts of interest
   
37.05   Statements required
   
37.06   Maintenance of records
   
37.07   Prohibited conduct
   
37.08   Reporting required
   
37.09   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Indemnification for legal liabilities and expenses, see §
38.20
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint-stock company, receivership, trust, union or other legal
entity.
   BUSINESS WITH WHICH HE IS ASSOCIATED. Any business in which the person or a
member of the person's immediate family is a director, officer, owner, employee
or owns or controls more than 10% of the profits, assets or stock of a business
(excluding control of assets in a nonprofit entity or labor union).
   CANDIDATE FOR PUBLIC OFFICE. Any person who has filed a declaration of
candidacy or a petition to appear on the ballot for election as a Township
official, and any person who has been nominated by a Township official or
Township body for appointment to serve as a Township official.
   CODE OF ETHICS. The New Jersey Local Government Ethics Law, N.J.S.A. 40A:9-
221 et seq.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than the duly authorized salary or
compensation for his services to the Township) to the Township official or
Township employee or to any person employing or retaining the services of the
Township official or Township employee,
   GIFT.  A payment, subscription, advance, forbearance, rendering or deposit
of money, services or anything of value. GIFT shall not include a political
contribution otherwise reported as required by law.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A spouse, parent or dependent child or any other relation
residing in the same household.
   INCOME.  Any money or thing of value received or to be received as a claim
on future services, whether in the form of a fee, salary, expense, allowance,
forbearance, forgiveness, interest, dividend, royalty, rent, capital gain or
any other form of recompense or any combination thereof.
   INTEREST. The ownership or control of more than 10% of the profits, assets
or stock of a business organization, but shall not include the control of
assets in a nonprofit entity or labor union.
   OFFICIAL ACTION.  An action that a person performs in a given state of facts
in a prescribed manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority, without
regard to or the exercise of the person's own judgment upon the propriety of
the action being taken.
   PERSON. A business, individual, corporation, union, association, firm,
partnership, committee, club or other organization or group of persons.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTION. Any advance, conveyance, deposit, distribution,
transfer of funds, loan, payment, pledge, purchase of a ticket to a testimonial
or similar fund-raising affair or subscription of money or anything of value,
except volunteer services, in connection with a political campaign, and any
contract, agreement, promise or other obligation, whether or not legally
enforceable, to make a POLITICAL CONTRIBUTION.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. Any two or more persons acting jointly, or any
corporation, partnership or any other incorporated or unincorporated
association which is organized to, or does, aid or promote the nomination,
election or defeat of any candidate or candidates for federal, state, county,
municipal or school board office. POLITICAL ORGANIZATION includes, but is not
limited to, organizations otherwise defined as "political committee," "joint
candidates committee," and "legislative leadership committee."
   SOLICIT. To seek by oral or written communication a contribution as the same
defined in § 150.10 of the Township Code.
   TOWNSHIP BODY. Any agency, board, body, including the Township Committee,
bureau, division, office, commission or other instrumentality within the
township, including any entity created by more than one county or municipality,
but shall not include a school board.
   TOWNSHIP EMPLOYEE.  Any person, whether compensated or not, whether part-
time or full-time, employed by or serving on a township body who is not a
township official, but shall not mean any employee of a school.
   TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. Any person, whether compensated or not, whether part-time
or full-time, elected to any office of a township body, serving on a township
body which has the authority to enact ordinances, approve development
applications or grant zoning variances, who is a member of an independent
municipal, county or regional authority or who is a managerial executive or
confidential employee of a township body, as defined in § 3 of the New Jersey
Employer-Employee Relations Act, (N.J.S.A. 34:13A-3), but shall not mean any
employee of a school district or member of a school board.
('74 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 355-1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. 578-1991, passed 9-
23-91; Am. Ord. 942-99, passed 8-9-99)
§ 37.02 CANDIDATES TO BE INFORMED OF CODE OF ETHICS.
   In order to conform to the Code of Ethics, candidates for the Township
Committee shall be informed of the contents of this chapter and the Code of
Ethics at the time petitions are filed.
('74 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. 355-1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. 578-1991, passed 9-
23-91; Am. Ord. 616-1992, passed 8-10-92)
§ 37.03 CODE OF ETHICS.
   The Code of Ethics applicable to public officials and promulgated by the
state of New Jersey is hereby adopted by the Township as its Code of Ethics,
except to the extent any provision of this
Chapter 37 imposes a more stringent standard, in which event the provision of
this Chapter 37 will govern and control.
Statutory reference:
   Local Government Ethics Law, see N.J.S.A. 40A:9-22.1 et seq.
§ 37.04 PROCEDURES RELATING TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Any Township official or Township employee who, in the discharge of his/her
official duties, would be in violation of any provision contained in the Code
of Ethics, shall take the following actions:
   (A)   Announce the conflict and refrain from voting, deliberating or taking
any action on the matter;
   (B)   Request and receive an advisory opinion from the Local Finance Board;
or
   (C)   If time does not permit, request and receive an advisory opinion from
the Solicitor of the Township body of which he/she is a member.
('74 Code, § 9-4) (Ord. 355-1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. 578-1991, passed 9-
23-91; Am. Ord. 616-1992, passed 8-10-92)
§ 37.05 STATEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each Township official and Township employee shall file a statement on
or before January 31 of each year that he/she holds such a position, affirming
that he/she has read the Code of Ethics and that he/she is in full compliance
with all the applicable provisions thereof.
   (B)   The following Township officials or township employees shall file a
statement of financial interests on or before January 31 of each year, covering
the prior calendar year, pursuant to division (C) below:
      (1)   Members of the Township Committee.
      (2)   Township Administrator.
      (3)   Township Solicitor.
      (4)   Planning Board Solicitor.
      (5)   Zoning Board Solicitor.
      (6)   Municipal Court Prosecutor.
      (7)   Municipal Public Defender.
      (8)   Township Engineer.
      (9)   Planning Board Engineer.
      (10)    Zoning Board Engineer.
      (11)   Superintendent of Public Works.
      (12)    Construction Official.
      (13)    Subcode Officials.
      (14)    Code Enforcement Officer.
      (15)    Director of C.E.R.
      (16)    Tax Assessor.
      (17)    Tax Collector.
      (18)    Controller.
      (19)    Purchasing Agent
      (20)    Chief Financial Officer.
      (21)    Township Planner.
      (22)    Township Clerk.
      (23)    Chief of Police.
      (24)    Environmental Engineer.
      (25)    Assistant Superintendent of Public Works.
      (26)    Superintendent of Sanitation.
      (27)    Assistant Superintendent of Sanitation.
      (28)    Supervisor of Sewer Department.
      (29)    Supervisor of Parks and Recreation Department.
      (30)    Members of the Planning Board.
      (31)    Members of the Zoning Board.
      (32)    Members of the Environmental Advisory Board.
      (33)    Members of all other advisory boards.
   (C)   Information to be included; filing.
      (1)   Township officials and Township employees covered by division (B)
above shall annually file a financial disclosure statement on those form(s)
prepared and distributed by the Local Finance Board of the state of New Jersey
pursuant to the Local Government Ethics Law, N.J.S.A. 40A:9-22.1 et seq. (the
Act). All financial disclosure statements filed pursuant to this chapter and
the Act shall include the following information, which shall specify, where
applicable, the name and address of each source and the township official's job
title:
         (a)   Each source of income, earned or unearned, exceeding $2,000
received by the township official or a member of his/her immediate family
during the preceding calendar year. Individual client fees, customer receipts
or commissions on transactions received through a business organization need
not be separately reported as sources of income. If a publicly traded security
is the source of income, the security need not be reported unless the township
official or member of his/her immediate family has an interest in the business
organization.
         (b)   Each source of fees and honorariums having an aggregate amount
exceeding $250 from any single source for personal appearances, speeches or
writings received by the township official or a member of his/her immediate
family during the preceding calendar year.
         (c)   Each source of gifts, reimbursements or prepaid expenses having
an aggregate value exceeding $400 from any single source, excluding relatives,
received by the township official or a member of his/her immediate family
during the preceding calendar year.
         (d)   The name and address of all business organizations in which the
township official or a member of his/her immediate family had an interest
during the preceding calendar year.
         (e)   The address and a brief description of all real property in the
state in which the township official or a member of his/her immediate family
held an interest during the preceding calendar year.
      (2)   The original statement shall be filed with the Township Clerk and a
copy of the statement shall be filed with the State Local Finance Board.
Township officials shall file the initial financial disclosure statement within
90 days following the effective date of the Act. Thereafter, statements shall
be filed on or before April 30 each year. All financial disclosure statements
filed shall be public records.
   (D)   Each person covered under the terms of divisions (B) and (C) above,
within 30 days of his/her hiring or appointment, shall file the required
completed disclosure statements with the Township Clerk.
   (E)   Any Township employee or Township official required by this chapter to
file a disclosure statement who fails or refuses to file a completed disclosure
statement shall, upon ten days' notice to such Township employee or Township
official, be suspended from such office or employment and shall not receive any
compensation from public funds and shall not be permitted to perform any
official duties until the completed disclosure form(s) is(are) filed.
('74 Code, § 9-5) (Ord. 355-1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. 578-1991, passed 9-
23-91; Am. Ord. 616-1992, passed 8-10-92)
§ 37.06 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   All statements, complaints, requests or other written materials filed
pursuant to this chapter and any rulings, opinions, judgments, transcripts or
other official papers prepared pursuant to this chapter shall be preserved for
a period of at least five years from the date of filing or preparation, as the
case may be.
('74 Code, § 9-11) (Ord. 355-1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. 578-1991, passed 9-
23-91)
37.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No Township official, Township employee or candidate for public office
may solicit, commit to pay, or receive payment of or a commitment to pay any
contribution for any candidate, elected official or political organization
while in or on any property owned by the Township. This prohibition includes
the use of Township owned or leased telephones, copy machines, facsimile
machines, computers or other equipment and/or facilities. By way of example and
not limitation, the following are prohibited acts:
      (1)   Soliciting or accepting contributions using municipal telephones,
fax machines or computers.
      (2)   Soliciting or accepting contributions using personal telephones
while on the property of the Township.
      (3)   Soliciting or accepting contribution through the use of publicly-
owned computer or privately-owned personal computers while on the property of
the Township.
      (4)   Using Township letterhead to solicit or accept contributions.
      (5)   Face-to-face soliciting of an individual or an owner or
representative of a business entity while on the property of the Township.
      (6)   Use of automobiles owned or leased by the Township to accept or
solicit contributions.
   (B)   Nothing in this §
37.07 shall be deemed to prohibit any Township official or Township employee
from freely making a political contribution to any candidate for public office
or any political organization, so long as the making of such contribution is
not in violation of division (A) of this §
37.07.
(Ord. 942-99, passed 8-9-99)
§ 37.08 REPORTING REQUIRED.
   It shall be the responsibility of any Township employee, or Township
official who observes any act prohibited by §
37.07 to report such conduct to the Township Prosecutor and the Township Clerk
who shall report same to the Township Committee. It shall be unlawful for any
Township employee, Township official or candidate for public office to be
dismissed, reprimanded, retaliated against or otherwise intimidated for
complying with the reporting requirements mandated by this §
37.08.
(Ord. 942-99, passed 8-9-99)
§ 37.09 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating or failing to comply with §
37.07, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$500, or by a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or by any combination of such
fine, community service, and imprisonment, in the discretion of the judge. The
continuation of such violation for each successive day shall constitute a
separate offense, and the person or persons allowing or permitting the
continuation of the violation may be punished as provided above for each
separate offense.
(Ord. 942-99, passed 8-9-99)
CHAPTER 38: TOWNSHIP POLICIES
Section
Drug-Free School Zone Map
   
38.01   Map established
   
38.02   Map to constitute official record
   
38.03   Authorities to be notified of school property changes
   
38.04   Map original to be kept on file; availability of copies
   
38.05   Use of map in prosecutions
Indemnification of Township Representatives
   
38.20   Legal costs and liabilities
Vital Statistics
   
38.30   Birth certificates
   
38.31   Marriage licenses
   
38.32   Marriage certificates
Community Building
   
38.40   Authorized users and functions
   
38.41   Fees
   
38.42   Regulations
Americans with Disabilities Act Claims
   
38.50   Procedures adopted by reference
Tort Claims
   
38.60   Notice form adopted by reference
Disabled Veteran Property Tax Exemption
   
38.70   Qualified 100% disabled veteran property tax exemption
   
38.71   Refunds to qualified 100% disabled veterans
DRUG-FREE SCHOOL ZONE MAP
§ 38.01 MAP ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with and pursuant to the authority of L. 1988, c. 44 (N.J.S.A.
2C:35-7), the Drug-Free School Zone Map produced on or about November 7, 1987,
by Long Engineering and Surveying Co., Municipal Engineer, is hereby approved
and adopted as an official finding and record of the location and areas within
the municipality of property which is used for school purposes and which is
owned by or leased to any elementary or secondary school or school board and of
the areas on or within 1,000 feet of such school property.
('74 Code, § 6C-1) (Ord. 414-1988, passed 9-12-88)
§ 38.02 MAP TO CONSTITUTE OFFICIAL RECORD.
   The Drug-Free School Zone Map approved and adopted pursuant to §
38.01 shall continue to constitute an official finding and record as to the
location and boundaries of areas on or within 1,000 feet of property owned by
or leased to any elementary or secondary school or school board which is used
for school purposes until such time, if any, that this chapter shall be amended
to reflect any additions or deletions with respect to the location and
boundaries of school property and Drug-Free School Zones.
('74 Code, § 6C-2) (Ord. 414-1988, passed 9-12-88)
§ 38.03 AUTHORITIES TO BE NOTIFIED OF SCHOOL PROPERTY CHANGES.
   The school board, or the chief administrative officer in the case of any
private or parochial school, is hereby directed and shall have the continuing
obligation to promptly notify the Municipal Engineer and the Municipal Attorney
of any changes or contemplated changes in the location and boundaries of any
property owned by or leased to any elementary or secondary school or school
board and which is used for school purposes.
('74 Code, § 6C-3) (Ord. 414-1988, passed 9-12-88)
§ 38.04 MAP ORIGINAL TO BE KEPT ON FILE; AVAILABILITY OF COPIES.
   The Clerk of the municipality is hereby directed to receive and to keep on
file the original of the map approved and adopted pursuant to §
38.01 and to provide at a reasonable cost a true copy thereof to any person,
agency or court which may from time to time request a copy, along with a
certification that such copy is a true copy of the map approved and adopted
herein and kept on file. It is hereby further directed that a true copy of such
map and of this chapter shall be provided without cost to the County Clerk and
to the office of the Camden County Prosecutor.
('74 Code, § 6C-4) (Ord. 414-1988, passed 9-12-88)
§ 38.05 USE OF MAP IN PROSECUTIONS.
   The following matters are hereby determined, declared, recited and stated:
   (A)   It is understood that the map approved and adopted pursuant to §
38.01 of this chapter was prepared and is intended to be used as evidence in
prosecutions arising under the criminal laws of this State and that, pursuant
to state law, such map shall constitute prima facie evidence of the following:
      (1)   The location of elementary and secondary schools within the
municipality.
      (2)   The boundaries of the real property which is owned by or leased to
such schools or a school board.
      (3)   That such school property is and continues to be used for school
purposes.
      (4)   The location and boundaries of areas which are on or within 1,000
feet of such school property.
   (B)   Except as is otherwise expressly noted on the face of the approved and
adopted map, all of the property depicted on the map approved and adopted
herein as school property was owned by, or leased to, a school or school board
and was being used for school purposes as of April 15, 1987, that being the
effective date of L. 1987, c. 101 (N.J.S.A. 2C:35-7).
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions of L. 1988, c. 44, a prosecutor is not
precluded from introducing or relying upon any other evidence or testimony to
establish a violation of the offense defined in that statute, including use of
a map or diagram other than the one approved and adopted pursuant to §
38.01. The failure of the map approved herein to depict the location and
boundaries of any property which is, in fact, used for school purposes and
which is owned by or leased to any elementary or secondary school or school
board, whether the absence of such depiction is the result of inadvertent
omission or the result of any changes in the location and boundaries of such
property which have not yet been incorporated into a revised approved map,
shall not be deemed to be an official finding and record that such property is
not owned by or leased to a school or school board, or that such property is
not used for school purposes.
   (D)   All of the requirements set forth in L. 1988, c. 44, concerning the
preparation, approval and adoption of a Drug-Free School Zone Map, have been
complied with.
('74 Code, § 6C-5) (Ord. 414-1988, passed 9-12-88)
INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWNSHIP REPRESENTATIVES
§ 38.20 LEGAL COSTS AND LIABILITIES.
   Any elected official, appointed board member or confidential administrative
employee, who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any
threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil,
criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such
person is or was an elected official, appointed board member or confidential
administrative employee, or by reason of any act committed by, vote made or
action taken by such elected official, appointed board member or confidential
administrative employee in the performance of his or her duties or
responsibilities in such position, shall be indemnified by the Township against
expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses and court costs), judgments,
fines, excise taxes and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably
incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding to
the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of New Jersey as in
effect at the time of such indemnification; provided, however, that no such
indemnification shall occur, and any amounts expended by the Township in
furtherance of this indemnification up to such time must be immediately
reimbursed to the Township, if such elected official, appointed board member or
confidential administrative employee is finally determined in such action, suit
or proceeding to have committed fraud or knowingly and intentionally committed
a criminal act or shall have knowingly and intentionally violated any law with
respect to conflict of interest, self dealing or similar conduct.
(Ord. 858-98, passed 1-26-98)
VITAL STATISTICS
§ 38.30 BIRTH CERTIFICATES.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 26:8-1 et seq., all certificates with respect to births
and/or adoptions within the Township shall be registered with the Township
Registrar of Vital Statistics on forms approved and supplied by the state. The
fee for processing such certificates shall be as provided by resolution
annually by the Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 126-1) (Ord. 561-91, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 809-97, passed 6-9-
97)
§ 38.31 MARRIAGE LICENSES.
   Marriage licenses shall be issued by the Township Registrar of Vital
Statistics as provided in N.J.S.A. 37:1-1 et seq. The fee for the issuance of
such licenses shall be as provided by ordinance annually by the Township
Committee.
('74 Code, § 126-2) (Ord. 561-91, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 809-97, passed 6-9-
97)
§ 38.32 MARRIAGE CERTIFICATES.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 26:8-1 et seq., all certificates with respect to
marriages which occurred within the Township and the associated marriage
licenses shall be registered with the Township Registrar of Vital Statistics on
forms approved and supplied by the state. The fee for processing such documents
shall be as provided by ordinance annually by the Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 126-3) (Ord. 561-91, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 809-97, passed 6-9-
97)
COMMUNITY BUILDING
§ 38.40 AUTHORIZED USES AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The Township Administrator, or the Township employee designated by him
but under his ultimate responsibility and control, shall approve all use of the
Community Building and control the scheduling of events in such facility so as
to ensure that, as much as possible, the facility is used primarily by Township
residents.
   (B)   The Community Building may only be used for social and nonsocial
functions of the following:
      (1)   Individual residents;
      (2)   Township senior citizen groups and organizations;
      (3)   Recognized Township organizations. Organizations falling in this
category must apply for status as a recognized Township organization in order
to use the Community Building under this category. The application must include
a copy of the bylaws, charter or other organization governing document that
requires the organization to maintain a membership comprised of at least 51%
Voorhees Township residents or businesses with offices or business locations
within the Township limits; and
      (4)   Non-Township organizations which provide that residents have the
right to be members of such organizations. Examples of such organizations are
county political groups, regional or county business organizations and county
or regional athletic groups.
(Ord. 861-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 38.41 FEES.
   At least annually, the Township Committee, by resolution, shall set the fee
schedule for use of the Community Building. A Township employee must be used,
and a separate fee at the per hour rate established in the fee schedule will be
charged for such employee's services, to oversee the use and clean-up of the
Community Building for all social functions.
(Ord. 861-98, passed 2-9-98)
§ 38.42 REGULATIONS.
   All use of the Community Building will be in compliance with all laws,
ordinances and regulations of the state, the county Health Department, and the
Township, including, but not limited to, the sale or distribution of alcoholic
beverages. The Committee shall adopt such additional regulations as it deems
necessary with respect to the use of the Community Building, such as insurance
requirements and fines and penalties for misuse or damage.
(Ord. 861-98, passed 2-9-98)
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT CLAIMS
§ 38.50 PROCEDURES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The claim procedures for alleged violations of Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), attached to Ord. 847-97, are hereby adopted by reference as the
official procedures to be utilized by any Township employee, prospective
employee or other person who is a qualified individual with a disability and
who claims that their rights have been violated by the Township under the ADA.
The form notice of claim attached to the procedures as well as the form of
receipt are hereby adopted as the official forms to be utilized by claimants
and by Township officials with respect to compliance with such procedures.
(Ord. 847-97, passed 11-10-97)
Cross-reference:
   ADA Grievance Committee, see §§
32.130 and
32.131
TORT CLAIMS
§ 38.60 NOTICE FORM ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Authorized Form of Notice of Tort Claim, attached to Ord. 831-97, is
hereby adopted by reference as the official form in which all notices of any
claim against the Township pursuant to the New Jersey Tort Claim Act, N.J.S.A.
59:8-6 et seq., must be filed. All persons making claims against the Township
pursuant to the Act subsequent to the effective date of Ord. 831-97 are
required to complete this official form as a condition of compliance with the
notice requirement of the Act.
(Ord. 831-97, passed 9-8-97)
DISABLED VETERAN  PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION
§ 38.70 QUALIFIED 100% DISABLED VETERAN PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:4-3.30, et seq,, all qualified 100% disabled
veterans owning a taxable dwelling house in the Township of Voorhees shall be
eligible for a property tax exemption upon completion of the necessary
application materials to be filed with the Township's Tax Assessor, retroactive
to the date the application is completed and filed.
(Ord. 399-22, passed 3-14-22)
§ 38.71 REFUNDS TO QUALIFIED 100% DISABLED VETERANS.
   (A)   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:4-3.32, it is the Township's policy to provide
refunds of any property taxes paid, retroactive to the date the application for
exemption is completed and filed, subject to the limitations set forth in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:4-3.31, applicants requesting an exemption for
previous years shall be refunded 20% of the applicant's total property tax bill
for each qualifying year, up to a maximum of two previous years, so long as the
applicant was the owner of the property in each prior year and otherwise
qualifies as a 100% disabled veteran pursuant to law in each of the prior
years.
(Ord. 399-22, passed 3-14-22)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE
   
51.   SEWERS
   
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
Collection Practices
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Granting of trash removal rights
   
50.03   Regulation of trash removal
   
50.04   Carts
   
50.05   Preparation of garbage for collection
   
50.06   (Reserved)
   
50.07   Prohibited practices
   
50.08   Leaf collection
   
50.09   Garden refuse
   
50.10   Tree trimming
   
50.11   Compliance required
Recycling
   
50.45   Short title
   
50.46   Definitions
   
50.47   Program established
   
50.48   Applicability
   
50.49   Recyclable materials
   
50.50   Preparation of materials
   
50.51   Collection dates
   
50.52   Placement for collection
   
50.53   Rules and regulations
   
50.54   Collection by unauthorized persons prohibited
   
50.55   Effect on other legislation
   
50.99   Penalty
COLLECTION PRACTICES
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from combustion of any type of solid fuel, such as wood,
coal, coke, charcoal, paper or any similar substance.
   BULK. All items of trash, debris or discarded household items not falling
within the definition of GARBAGE or RECYCLABLES, which shall not fit in the
trash cart assigned to the resident. BULK items shall also include WHITE GOODS
as defined herein.
   GARDEN REFUSE. Small branches of trees, under three inches in diameter;
hedge, bush and vine trimmings; stalks of vegetables and plants, grasses, weeds
and similar substances or materials found in residential yards; but not leaves
in bulk, tree roots, tree trunks or portions thereof, or large tree branches.
   OCCUPANT. the owner, agent, tenant, lessee, caretaker or any other person in
charge of any premises affected by this chapter, whichever classification may
be appropriate and effective for its enforcement.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. All miscellaneous materials such as rags, leather goods,
cartons, rubber, broken glass, crockery or any similar materials or substances,
but not concrete, firewood, sod, logs, earth, sand, bricks, mortar, railroad
ties or other substances which may accumulate from building or demolition
operations.
   TREE TRIMMING. Limbs and branches not exceeding five inches in diameter and
at least four feet in length, that have accumulated because of storm damage
and/or routine maintenance, but not as a result of tree removal or lot clearing
activities.
   WHITE GOODS. Household appliances, including, but not limited to, hot water
heaters, washers, dryers, ranges and refrigerators with doors removed. WHITE
GOODS shall not mean hot water  heaters, washers, dryers, ranges and
refrigerators generated by a commercial vendor.
('74 Code § 70-1) (Ord. — , passed - - ; Am. Ord 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am.
Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07 )
§ 50.02 GRANTING OF TRASH REMOVAL RIGHTS.
   The Mayor and Township Committee shall have the right and power by
resolution to grant the exclusive privilege of removing and transporting ashes,
trash, rubbish, garden refuse and garbage within the corporate limits of the
Township, in the county and state, or to otherwise provide therefor.
('74 Code, § 70-2) (Ord. — , passed - - ; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07)
§ 50.03 REGULATION OF TRASH REMOVAL.
   The collection and removal thereof shall be done in accordance with the
provisions of these rules and regulations and shall be subject to the general
supervision of the Mayor and Township Committee and the County Board of Health
and shall be subject to such additional rules and regulations as the Mayor and
Township Committee and the County Board of Health may from time to time
prescribe by resolution.
('74 Code, § 70-3) (Ord. — , passed - - ; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07)
§ 50.04 CARTS.
   The owner, agent, lessee, tenant and/or occupant of every dwelling and other
premises shall be provided with one 95-gallon cart by the Township. Additional
trash carts are available to the residents at a cost set by the Township.
   (A)   All receptacles must be placed by the occupant in front of the
premises at the curb the evening before, but no later than 6:00 a.m. of the
scheduled collection day. Receptacles are to be removed from the curbline the
evening of the scheduled collection day.
   (B)   The resident shall be responsible for maintaining the cleanliness of
the cart. Maintenance (i.e. wheels, lids) will be provided by the Township. If
the cart is damaged or destroyed due to negligence or abuse by the resident,
costs of repair or replacement shall be assessed to the resident.
   (C)   The cart is registered to the residence and shall remain registered at
the residence it is registered to even though property owners change. The
Township reserves the right to inspect the cart at the time of the change of
ownership to insure the condition of the cart is acceptable.
   (D)   Bulk trash will occur the third full week of every month on your trash
day. This week may be confirmed by contracting Public Works or reviewing the
Township calendar or website. All bulk items shall be placed at curbline the
evening before, but prior to 6:00 a.m. of the scheduled day for collection.
Bulk items and white goods generated by commercial or professional movers,
cleaners, builders or installers shall be removed by private services but in no
event shall such bulk items remain at the residence or property for more than
48 hours after receiving due notification.
('74 Code, §§ 70-4, 70-5) (Ord. — , passed - - ; Am. Ord. 791-97, passed 3-10-
97; Am. Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-15-07)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.05 PREPARATION OF GARBAGE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   No garbage shall be placed for collection outside of provided trash
cart. All garbage shall be thoroughly and completely drained of all liquids and
placed in a cart, as defined herein above, with other trash.
   (B)   All other materials and/or substances referred to herein shall be
stored and held in carts as defined herein whenever possible. Any trash,
rubbish and/or garden refuse of such a nature or size that it cannot be placed
in a cart shall be properly and securely tied into bundles or packages to
prevent spilling or scattering. Such bundles or packages shall be of a size to
permit ease of handling by one man and shall not, in any case, weigh more than
50 pounds or exceed 48 inches and will be picked up on the bulk trash day only.
   (C)   Carts that are badly broken or otherwise fail to meet the requirements
of this chapter may be treated as rubbish and collected and disposed of as such
by the agency responsible for the collection thereof.
('74 Code, § 70-6) (Ord. — , passed - -; Am. Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am.
Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.06 (RESERVED).
§ 50.07 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Place or store any of the substances and/or materials referred to in
this subchapter in any paper bag, parcel, wooden keg or barrel, basket, drum or
any type of container whatsoever other than the type of cart herein specified.
   (B)   Collect, pick up, rake or in any other way disturb the substances and/
or materials referred to in this subchapter when deposited in receptacles or
otherwise and laid or placed on any curb, street or public place for
collection; provided, however, that this division (B) shall not apply to
authorized officials, including, but not limited to, authorized sanitation
personnel or firefighter or law enforcement officers in the performance of
their respective official duties.
   (C)   Place for collection, any explosive to include but not limited to
ammunition, flares, fireworks and the like.
   (D)   Place for collection, any medical waste unless properly secured.
Hypodermic needles must be placed in a secured metal container.
   (E)   The Township will issue a Notice of Violation to those residents
failing to comply with the conditions of this chapter. The Township reserves
the right, after due notice of violation, to remove trash from curbline. The
costs of this removal will be certified by the Township and shall become a lien
against the property.
   (F)   Violate any other term, condition or requirement of this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 70-8) (Ord. — , passed - -; Am. Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am.
Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.08 LEAF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Subject to rules and regulations established by and the general
supervision of the Township Committee, the Township may establish each spring
and/or fall specific times during which the Township Department of Public Works
will collect loose, piled leaves which are located along the curb in front of
the resident's property. Any resident wishing to take advantage of this service
must place the leaves in loose piles along the curb in front not more than one
week before the initial day of curbside pick-up for the resident's particular
neighborhood.
   (B)   Leaves must be raked out to the curb and must not contain plants,
branches, shrub clippings or other foreign matter.
   (C)   Only leaves generated from plants and trees located on or adjacent to
the resident's property can be placed along the curb for collection by the
Township. Under no circumstances can leaves from property outside of the
Township be placed along the curb for collection.
   (D)   If the resident does not place leaves curbside for collection as
provided in divisions (A) and (B) above, the leaves must be placed in sealed
compostable bags or trash cans with lids and placed curbside for collection. A
full bag or trash can must weigh less than 40 pounds. Leaves may not be placed
in the Township provided waste or recycling carts. In no event shall leaves be
placed into non-compostable bags for collection.
   (E)   The Township will issue a Notice of Violation to those residents
failing to comply with the conditions of this chapter. The Township reserves
the right, after due notice of violation, to remove the leaves from the curb
line. The costs of this removal will be certified by the Township and shall
become a lien against the property.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit on-site composting
of leaves by the resident so long as such composting is done in the rear yard
area of the property and in all other respects complies with Township codes and
ordinances and the laws, rules and regulations of Camden County and the State
of New Jersey.
(Ord. 804-97, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am. Ord. 103-07,
passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 278-16, passed 3-28-16) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 GARDEN REFUSE.
   (A)   The Township will collect, on a weekly basis, one pile of garden
refuse, not to exceed the volume dimensions of a trash pile which measures two
cubic yards. Special hauling arrangements for garden refuse which exceed the
amount and/or size set forth herein shall be coordinated with a private vendor
by the resident for proper removal.
   (B)   Garden refuse shall be placed at the curb in the following manner:
      (1)   Length of material shall not exceed four feet;
      (2)   Diameter of material shall not exceed three inches;
      (3)   All materials shall be bundled with compostable twine or rope;
      (4)   Each bundle must weigh less than 40 pounds;
      (5)   Loose garden refuse, including grasses, shall be placed curbside in
sealed compostable bags or trash cans with lids. A full bag or trash can must
weigh less than 40 pounds;
      (6)   Garden refuse may not be placed in the Township provided waste or
recycling carts. In no event shall garden refuse be placed into non-compostable
bags for collection.
   (C)   The Township will not collect materials as listed in this category
which are generated by landscapers or other contractors, or which exceeds the
amount and/or size defined herein.
   (D)   The Township will issue a Notice of Violation to those residents
failing to comply with the conditions of this chapter. The Township reserves
the right, after due notice of violation, to remove the garden refuse from the
curb line. The costs of this removal will be certified by the Township and
shall become a lien against the property.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit on-site composting
of garden refuse by the resident so long as such composting is done in the rear
yard area of the property and in all other respects complies with Township
codes and ordinances and the laws, rules and regulations of Camden County and
the State of New Jersey.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 278-16,
passed 3-28-16)
§ 50.10 TREE TRIMMING.
   Tree trimming shall be placed untied in an organized fashion between the
sidewalk and curb or on the street within three feet of the curb. The Township
will remove on a weekly basis a volume of tree trimming not to exceed four
cubic yards.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07)
§ 50.11 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   In the collection, removal and disposal of substances and/or materials
hereunder, all the provisions of these rules and regulations and all provisions
of any other ordinance or regulation of the Township Committee or of any state
or federal law or regulation which may pertain to the subject matter shall be
fully and completely complied with.
('74 Code, § 70-9) (Ord. — , passed - -; Am. Ord. 18-01, passed 9-24-01; Am.
Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07) Penalty, see § 50.99
RECYCLING
§ 50.45 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Voorhees Township
Recycling Program Ordinance.”
('74 Code, § 97-1) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07)
§ 50.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GLASS CONTAINERS. Products used as bottles, jars and other glass containers
made from silica or sand, soda ash and limestone, the product being transparent
or translucent and being used for packaging or bottling of various matter or
liquid, and all other material commonly known as GLASS; excluding, however,
blue and flat glass commonly known as WINDOW GLASS.
   METAL CONTAINERS. All disposable containers made and fabricated primarily of
metals such as steel, aluminum, or tin.
   PAPER PRODUCTS. Products manufactured from the pulp of wood or other fibrous
substances, commonly used for writing, drawing, or printing on, or as packaging
material, including newspapers, magazines, paperback books, regular and junk
mail, office paper and file folders, paperboard boxes, cartons, corrugated
cardboard, paper bags, and paper towel rolls.
   PLASTIC CONTAINERS. All disposable containers made and fabricated primarily
of plastic, and having imprinted on them a recycling code of #1, #2, #4, #5, or
#7.
   SOLID WASTE. Includes all garbage, rubbish and waste normally collected by
the Township or its authorized agents.
('74 Code, § 97-2) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 313-1986, passed 2-
24-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 279-16, passed 3-28-16)
§ 50.47 PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   On and after the effective date of this subchapter and under the regulations
and schedules issued by the Township Committee of the Township in accordance
with the terms of this chapter, hereby establishes a program for the mandatory
preparation and placement for collection of the recyclable materials herein
defined and designated in §
50.49 of this chapter, for collection or recycling by the Township or its duly
authorized agents.
('74 Code, § 97-3) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07; Am. Ord. 279-16, passed 3-28-16)
§ 50.48 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable to all owners,
lessees, tenants and occupants of residential properties in the township who
are provided with and utilize the services of the township or its authorized
agents for the collection and disposal of solid waste.
('74 Code, § 97-4) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07)
§ 50.49 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The recyclable solid waste materials which are required to be prepared and
placed for collection by the Township or its authorized agents shall include:
   (A)   Paper products;
   (B)   Metal containers;
   (C)   Glass containers;
   (D)   Plastic containers; and
   (E)   Such others as established by Township Committee ordinance.
('74 Code, § 97-5) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 313-1986, passed 2-
24-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 279-16, passed 3-28-16)
§ 50.50 SEPARATION OF MATERIALS.
   All owners, lessees, tenants and occupants of residential properties to whom
the provisions of this chapter are applicable shall prepare and place for
collection the recyclable materials defined and designated in §§ 50.46 and
50.49 of this chapter in the manner hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   Paper products.
      (1)   Paperboard boxes, cartons, corrugated cardboard, and paper bags
shall be flattened before placement in the Township provided recycling cart.
Oversized paper products shall be reduced into sections that fit within the
cart without obstructing the dumping of its contents.
      (2)   The removal of paper clips, stamps, address labels, staples, metal
fasteners, cellophane address windows, rubber bands, spiral bindings, or
plastic tabs from paper products is not required.
      (3)   In no event shall plastic bags, twine, or other material be used to
secure paper products for collection.
   (B)   Metal, glass, and plastic containers.
      (1)   Used metal, glass, and plastic containers such as soup, soda, and
milk containers, shall have their lids removed and be cleaned and drained free
of all food and liquid or other substances before placement in the Township
provided recycling cart. Loose metal lids shall also be placed in the cart.
      (2)   In no event shall plastic bags or other material be used to secure
metal, glass, or plastic containers for collection.
   (C)   Prohibited items.    The following items are prohibited from placement
in the Township provided recycling cart:
      (1)   Scrap metal;
      (2)   Plastic bags;
      (3)   Plastic lids and caps;
      (4)   Plastic six-pack holders;
      (5)   Needles and syringes;
      (6)   Plastic microwave trays;
      (7)   Window panes and mirrors;
      (8)   Ceramics and Pyrex dishware;
      (9)   Plastics other than those listed;
      (10)   Paint, pesticides, oils, and cleansers;
      (11)   Stickers or address label sheetwaste;
      (12)   Waxed paper and waxed cardboard;
      (13)   Styrofoam and paper to-go containers;
      (14)   Organic material and food waste;
      (15)   Electronic waste (batteries, cell phones, computers, etc.;
      (16)   Such others as established by Township Committee ordinance.
   (D)   Recycling education.
      (1)   A Voorhees Township Guide to Residential Waste Disposal and a
Voorhees Township Guide to Single Stream Recycling will be distributed to
residents with each Township provided recycling cart.
      (2)   These guides will be designed to provide information on commingled
recycling, recyclable items that are accepted through municipal collection, and
how residents may dispose of other types of recyclable waste. These guides will
be updated as required and posted on the Township website.
('74 Code, § 97-6) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 313-1986, passed 2-
24-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07; Am. Ord. 279-16, passed 3-28-16)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.51 COLLECTION DATES.
   The Township Committee shall divide the Township into districts and schedule
the collection dates for each district in an effort to provide for the
collection of the recyclable materials by the Township or its authorized agent
weekly. The Township Committee shall be responsible for providing residents
with ample publication and notice of the area of the Township included within
each district and the respective dates of collection of recyclable materials
for each district. Residents shall be responsible for placing their Township
provided recycling cart curbside no sooner than the evening prior to their
scheduled recycling collection date.
('74 Code, § 97-7) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07; Am. Ord. 279-16, passed 3-28-16)
§ 50.52 PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   All recyclable materials in the Township provided recycling cart shall be
placed for collection between the curb and sidewalk in front of the residence
as provided in § 50.50 of this chapter. If placement cannot be made by the
resident as heretofore provided, then the Township Committee shall have the
right to establish or approve another designated location on the resident's
premises for the placement of such recyclables. In no event shall recyclable
materials or other solid waste be placed in the street or right-of-way.
('74 Code, § 97-8) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07; Am. Ord. 279-16, passed 3-28-16) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.53 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Township Committee is hereby authorized to promulgate, from time to
time, additional rules and regulations relating to the separation, preparation,
placement and collection of the recyclable materials pursuant to the provisions
of this program and subchapter; provided, however, that such rules and
regulations shall not be inconsistent with terms and provisions of this
subchapter and shall be approved by the Township Committee. Such rules and
regulations shall be duly promulgated by publication so that the public has had
notice thereof.
('74 Code, § 97-9) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07)
§ 50.54 COLLECTION BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   From the time of placement of the recyclable materials herein defined
and designated at the curb or other designated place for collection by the
Township or its authorized agent pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
and any rules and regulations adopted thereunder, said recyclable materials
shall become and be the property of the Township or its authorized agent.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person not duly
authorized by the Township to collect or pick up or cause to be collected or
picked up any recyclable materials placed at the curb or other designated place
for collection by the Township or its authorized agent pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. Any and each such unauthorized collection in
violation hereof from one or more residences shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense punishable as hereinafter provided.
('74 Code, § 97-10) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.55 EFFECT ON OTHER LEGISLATION.
   This subchapter shall be deemed to be supplemental to and not a repealer of
that portion of the Code of the Township which provides for the placement and
collection of solid waste by the Township or its authorized agents. In the
event that any term or provision of this chapter shall be inconsistent or in
conflict with any term or provision of said Code, the terms and provisions of
this subchapter shall prevail and control.
('74 Code, § 97-12) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating, or failing to comply with, any of the provisions
of §§
50.01 through
50.09 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable by a fine of not less than
$50 and not more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the Judge. The
continuation of such violation for each successive day shall constitute a
separate offense, and the person or persons allowing or permitting the
continuation of the violation may be punished as provided above for each
separate offense.
('74 Code, § 70-10) (Ord. — , passed - - ; Am. Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74;
Am. Ord. 3-1976, passed 4-12-76; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-07)
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
50.54(B) shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable by a fine not to exceed
the sum of $500 for each and every offense.
      (2)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any other provision
of §§
50.45 through
50.55, except §
50.54(B), or who violates or fails to comply with any rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant thereto shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable by a
fine not to exceed the sum of $500.
('74 Code, § 97-11) (Ord. 307-86, passed 1-27-86; Am. Ord. 103-07, passed 5-14-
07)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Storm sewer system
   
51.02   Sewer maintenance and replacement responsibility
   
51.03   Storm drainage inlets
   
51.04   Dumpsters
Sewer Department
   
51.15   Creation
   
51.16   Camden County Municipal Utility Authority
   
51.17   Sewer charges
Capacity Allocation Procedure
   
51.25   Capacity allocation procedure
   
51.26   Improper disposal of waste to municipal separate storm sewer system
   
51.27   Illicit connections to municipal separate storm sewer system
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly discharge or dispose of any
material, debris or other matter into the storm sewer system of the Township.
('74 Code, § 100-13) (Ord. 235-1984, passed 9-10-84)
§ 51.02 SEWER MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Township shall be responsible for maintenance, repair or
replacement of all sewer mains within rights-of-way of Township streets and
within Township easements across private property.
('74 Code, § 100-15)
   (B)   The Township shall be responsible for maintenance, repair and
replacement of laterals within rights-of-way of Township streets or Township
easements across private property, only from the main to the edge of the right-
of-way or easement. The property owner is responsible for all maintenance,
repair and replacement of laterals outside of such rights-of-way or easements.
('74 Code, § 100-16)
   (C)   The property owner is responsible for the maintenance and replacement
of all cleanout caps on laterals serving the property, whether or not such caps
are located within a Township right-of-way or easement.
('74 Code, § 100-17)
(Ord. 722A-94, passed 12-12-94)
§ 51.03 STORM DRAINAGE INLETS.
   (A)   Purpose. An ordinance requiring the retrofitting of existing storm
drain inlets which are in direct contact with re-paving, repairing,
reconstruction or resurfacing or alterations of facilities on private property,
to prevent the discharge of solids and floatables (such as plastic bottles,
cans, food wrappers and other litter) to the municipal separate storm sewer
system(s) operated by Voorhees Township so as to protect public health, safety
and welfare, and to prescribe penalties for the failure to comply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein
unless their use in the text of this chapter clearly demonstrates a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels or storm drains) that is
owned or operated by Voorhees Township or other public body, and is designed
and used for collecting and conveying stormwater. NOTE: In municipalities with
combined sewer systems, add the following: “MS4s do not include combined sewer
systems, which are sewer systems that are designed to carry sanitary sewage at
all times and to collect and transport stormwater from streets and other
sources.”
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      STORM DRAIN INLET. An opening in a storm drain used to collect stormwater
runoff and includes, but is not limited to, a grate inlet, curb-opening inlet,
slotted inlet and combination inlet.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. The ocean and its estuaries, all springs, streams
and bodies of surface or ground water, whether natural or artificial, within
the boundaries of the State of New Jersey or subject to its jurisdiction.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct. No person in control of private property (except a
residential lot with one single-family house) shall authorize the repaving,
repairing (excluding the repair of individual potholes), resurfacing (including
top coating or chip sealing with asphalt emulsion or a thin base of hot
bitumen), reconstructing or altering any surface that is in direct contact with
an existing storm drain inlet on that property unless the storm drain inlet
either:
      (1)   Already meets the design standard below to control passage of solid
and floatable materials; or
      (2)   Is retrofitted or replaced to meet the standard below prior to the
completion of the project.
   (D)   Design standard. Storm drain inlets identified above shall comply with
the following standard to control passage of solid and floatable materials
through storm drain inlets. For purposes of this paragraph, SOLID AND FLOATABLE
MATERIALS means sediment, debris, trash and other floating, suspended or
settleable solids. The following are exemptions to this standard:
      (1)   Design engineers shall use either of the following grates whenever
they use a grate in pavement or another ground surface to collect stormwater
from that surface into a storm drain or surface water body under that grate:
         (a)   The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) bicycle safe
grate, which is described in Chapter 2.4 of the NJDOT Bicycle Compatible
Roadways and Bikeways Planning and Design Guidelines (April 1996); or
         (b)   A different grate, if each individual clear space in that grate
has an area of no more than seven square inches, or is no greater than one-half
inches across the smallest dimension. Examples of grates subject to this
standard include grates in grate inlets, the grate portion (non-curb-opening
portion) of combination inlets, grates on storm sewer manholes, ditch grates,
trench grates and grates of spacer bars in slotted drains. Examples of ground
surfaces include surfaces of roads (including bridges), driveways, parking
areas, bikeways, plazas, sidewalks, lawns, fields, open channels and stormwater
basin floors.
      (2)   Whenever design engineers use a curb-opening inlet, the clear space
in that curb opening (or each individual clear space, if the curb opening has
two or more clear spaces) shall have an area of no more than seven square
inches, or be no greater than two inches across the smallest dimension.
      (3)   This standard does not apply:
         (a)   Where the municipal engineer agrees that this standard would
cause inadequate hydraulic performance that could not practicably be overcome
by using additional or larger storm drain inlets that meet these standards;
         (b)   Where flows are conveyed through any device (e.g., end of pipe
netting facility, manufactured treatment device or a catch basin hood) that is
designed, at a minimum, to prevent delivery of all solid and floatable
materials that could not pass through one of the following:
            1.   A rectangular space four and five-eighths inches long and one
and one-half inches wide (this option does not apply for outfall netting
facilities); or
            2.   A bar screen having a bar spacing of one-half inches.
         (c)   Where flows are conveyed through a trash rack that has parallel
bars with one-inch spacing between the bars; or
         (d)   Where the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
determines, pursuant to the New Jersey Register of Historic Places Rules at
N.J.S.A. 7:4-7.2(c), that action to meet this standard is an undertaking that
constitutes an encroachment or will damage or destroy the New Jersey Register
listed historic property.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Voorhees Township
Police Department and/or other municipal officials of Voorhees Township.
(Ord. 154-09, passed 10-12-09)
§ 51.04 DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Purpose. Requirements of the New Jersey Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System, Tier “A” MS4 Permit requiring dumpsters and other refuse
containers that are outdoors or exposed to stormwater to be covered at all
times and prohibits the spilling, dumping, leaking or otherwise discharge of
liquids, semi-liquids or solids from the containers to the municipal separate
storm sewer system(s) operated by the Township and/or the waters of the state
so as to protect public health, safety and welfare, and to prescribe penalties
for the failure to comply.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms, phrases, words and their derivations
shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the text of this
chapter clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4).  A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels or storm drains) that is
owned or operated by Voorhees Township or other public body, and is designed
and used for collecting and conveying stormwater. NOTE: In municipalities with
combined sewer systems, add the following: “MS4s do not include combined sewer
systems, which are sewer systems that are designed to carry sanitary sewage at
all times and to collect and transport stormwater from streets and other
sources.”
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      REFUSE CONTAINER. Any waste container that a person controls whether
owned, leased or operated, including dumpsters, trash cans, garbage pails and
plastic trash bags.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from precipitation (including rain and snow)
that runs off the land’s surface, is transmitted to the subsurface, is captured
by separate storm sewers, other sewerage or drainage facilities or is conveyed
by snow removal equipment.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. The ocean and its estuaries, all springs, streams
and bodies of surface or ground water, whether natural or artificial, within
the boundaries of the State of New Jersey or subject to its jurisdiction.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct. Any person who controls, whether owned, leased or
operated, a refuse container or dumpster must ensure that such container or
dumpster is covered at all times and shall prevent refuse from spilling out or
overflowing. Any person who owns, leases or otherwise uses a refuse container
or dumpster must ensure that such container or dumpster does not leak or
otherwise discharge liquids, semi-liquids or solids to the municipal separate
storm sewer system(s) operated by Voorhees Township.
   (D)   Exceptions to prohibition. The following is a list of exceptions to
prohibition. They are as follows:
      (1)   Permitted temporary demolition containers;
      (2)   Municipal owned litter receptacles (other than dumpsters or other
bulk containers);
      (3)   Individual homeowner trash and recycling containers;
      (4)   Refuse containers at facilities authorized to discharge stormwater
under a valid NJPDES permit; and
      (5)   Large bulky items (e.g., furniture, bound carpet and padding and/or
white goods placed curbside for pickup).
   (E)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Voorhees Township
Police Department and/or other municipal officials of Voorhees Township.
(Ord. 155-09, passed 10-12-09)
SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 51.15 CREATION.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:26A-1 et seq. (the Sewerage Act), the Township has
created the Township Sewer Department for purposes of acquiring, constructing,
and operating sewerage facilities, including all plants, lines, pumps and
equipment pertaining thereto, within the Township. The Township Sewer
Department shall operate the sewerage facilities completed pursuant to the
Sewerage Act in accordance with the Sewerage Act.
§ 51.16 CAMDEN COUNTY MUNICIPAL UTILITY AUTHORITY.
   The Township Sewer Department shall operate the sewerage facilities and
handle and dispose of sewerage produced in the Township in conjunction with the
Camden County Municipal Utility Authority (the CCMUA), or its successor.
§ 51.17 SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   The Township shall charge fees for sewer connection and service as
established annually by ordinance of the Township Committee. Sewer connection
fees shall be due and payable as and when such sewer connection(s) is applied
for. Sewer service fees shall be billed annually by the Township and shall be
due and payable by March 1 of each calendar year for the ensuing calendar year.
   (B)   The owner of a property which is abandoned or becomes unoccupied for a
continuous period of one year, may apply to the Township for cancellation of
the sewer account for such property and for any refund of current year sewer
charges only as follows:
      (1)   The owner must notify the Township Tax Collector in writing that
the property has been unoccupied for a continuous period of one year. Such
notice must include the original date of termination of occupancy and must
include written proof that water service (excluding fire) has been terminated
at the property for a continuous period of one year.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notice and the required proof, the Tax
Collector will cancel the sewer bill for the current year forward and will
refund any payments made for the current tax year, if any. No refund for any
payments for prior tax years will be given.
      (3)   If the property later is to be occupied, the property owner must
pay a new sewer connection charge for each domestic consumer unit applicable to
the property.
(Am. Ord. 907-99, passed 1-25-99; Am. Ord. 05-2000, passed 2-14-00; Am. Ord.
34-00, passed 11-27-00; Am. Ord. 1-02, passed 1-28-02; Am. Ord. 41-04, passed
1-26-04)
   CAPACITY ALLOCATION PROCEDURE
§ 51.25 CAPACITY ALLOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Every applicant seeking either Township execution of a New Jersey Department
of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) Treatment Works Approval (TWA) Permit
Application or Township sanitary sewer connection permit(s) shall comply with
the following sanitary sewer capacity allocation procedure.
   (A)   Every applicant seeking Township execution of a NJDEP TWA Permit
Application or sanitary sewer connection permit(s) shall submit a Request for
Sanitary Sewer Capacity Allocation Administrative Completeness Checklist, to be
obtained from the Township Clerk, signed and dated by the applicant. Each
applicant's checklist shall be accompanied by the following documents, to the
extent required for the applicant's project:
      (1)   Copy of preliminary Planning Board or Zoning Board land development
approval (for Township execution of an NJDEP TWA Permit Application) or final
Planning Board or Zoning Board land development approval (for Township sanitary
sewer connection permits).
      (2)   For applicants seeking Township execution of an NJDEP TWA Permit
Application, not less than three sets of the following, two of which will be
retained by the Township:
         (a)   Completed original (signed and sealed) copies of the NJDEP
Treatment Works Approval (TWA) Permit Application and all supporting documents;
and
         (b)   A capacity analysis report, signed and sealed by the applicant's
engineer, showing to the extent possible whether the Township's sanitary sewer
collection system has adequate capacity to accept the sanitary sewer flow
resulting from the proposed connection(s).
      (3)   For applicants seeking Township sanitary sewer connection permit
(s), a copy of the NJDEP TWA Permit if one is required for the project, and a
completed original Township Application for Sanitary Sewer Connection Permit
(one for each lot or individual connection), signed and dated by the applicant.
      (4)   Township application escrow fee for review of the application for
sanitary sewer capacity allocation, as stated in the checklist.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the Checklist and accompanying documents, the Township
Clerk shall determine whether the Administrative Completeness Checklist and
accompanying documents are administratively complete (in consultation with the
Township Sewer Engineer, if necessary).
   (C)   The Township Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing if it is
determined that the Checklist and accompanying documents are not
administratively complete, and the applicant shall correct and/or supplement
the Checklist and accompanying documents as necessary.
   (D)   When the Administrative Completeness Checklist and accompanying
documents are deemed administratively complete, the Township Clerk shall record
the date of completeness on the Checklist and so notify the applicant in
writing.
   (E)   The Township Clerk shall forward a copy of the Administrative
Completeness Checklist to the Township Sewer Engineer, along with copies of the
documents listed in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above.
   (F)   The Township Sewer Engineer shall review the application package and
issue a report to the Township Clerk and the applicant indicating the
following:
      (1)   Whether the application package is technically complete, and
indicating any deficiencies in the package that must be corrected by the
applicant.
      (2)   Whether the Township's sewer collection system has adequate
capacity to accept the sanitary sewer flow resulting from the proposed
connection(s).
      (3)   Whether the Township believes that it has adequate allocation from
the Camden County Municipal Utilities Authority (CCMUA) for the sanitary sewer
flow resulting from the proposed connection(s).
   (G)   If it is determined by the Township Sewer Engineer that the
application is not technically complete, the applicant shall correct and/or
supplement the application package as necessary.
   (H)   When the application package is deemed technically complete, the
Township Sewer Engineer shall issue a report to the Township Clerk recommending
the following action(s):
      (1)   For the proposed connection(s), the Township's sewer collection
system has adequate capacity to accept the sanitary sewer flow, and the
Township believes that it has adequate allocation from the CCMUA for the
sanitary sewer flow, and an NJDEP TWA Permit is not required for the proposed
connections, then the Township may issue the requested sewer connection permits
(one for each lot), upon payment by the applicant of the Township's then-
current sanitary sewer connection fee.
      (2)   lf, for the proposed connection(s), the Township's sewer collection
system has adequate capacity to accept the sanitary sewer flow, and the
Township believes that it has adequate allocation from the CCMUA for the
sanitary sewer flow, and an NJDEP TWA Permit is required for the proposed
connections, then the Township may execute the TWA Permit Application forms
upon receipt from the applicant of a check in an amount equal to the than-
current sewer connection fees for the requested allocation. The sewer
connection permit fees will be held in escrow by the Township pending the
issuance of the NJDEP TWA permit. (The applicant will be responsible for
forwarding the executed TWA Permit Application to the CCMUA for its review and
endorsement, and to the NJDEP.)
      (3)   If, for the proposed connection(s), the Township's sewer collection
system does not have adequate capacity to accept the sanitary sewer flow, or
the Township believes that it does not have adequate allocation from the CCMUA
for the sanitary sewer flow, then the Township shall add the requested
allocation to a list of projects awaiting sewer capacity allocation. The list
shall be maintained by the Township Clerk, and shall include the following
information for each project:
         (a)   Date of technical completeness;
         (b)   Block(s) and lot(s);
         (c)   Project name;
         (d)   Applicant;
         (e)   Type(s) of facilities to be connected;
         (f)   Number of connections for each type;
         (g)   Total allocation requested;
         (h)   Sewer system drainage area; and
         (i)   Reason for placing on waiting list.
   (I)   If projects have been placed on the list of projects awaiting sewer
capacity allocation, and additional capacity becomes available due to:
      (1)   Increases in the capacity of the Township's sewer collection
system;
      (2)    Increases in capacity allocation from the CCMUA, or
      (3)   Decreases in flow entering the Township's sanitary sewer collection
system,
then the Township will execute the NJDEP TWA Permit Applications and/or issue
the sanitary sewer connection permits in the same order in which the projects
were determined to be technically complete. Applicants on the waiting list will
be notified in writing by the Township that additional capacity has become
available.
   (J)   For applicants that have requested Township execution of an NJDEP
Treatment Works Approval (TWA) Permit Application and have received
notification under division (I) above, the applicant shall confirm in writing
within 30 calendar days from receipt of the Township's notice that it still
intends to apply for a TWA Permit, and stating the number of Township
connection permits that the applicant intends to purchase initially, once it
receives the NJDEP TWA Permit, and the capacity that will be required for those
connections. The applicant shall include with its response, if the TWA Permit
Application will be filed, a check in an amount equal to the then-current sewer
connection fees for the requested sewer connection permits; the sewer
connection permit fees will be held in escrow by the Township pending the
issuance of the NJDEP TWA Permit.
   (K)   For applicants that have requested Township sanitary sewer connection
permit(s) and have received notification under division (I) above, the
applicant shall confirm in writing within 30 calendar days from receipt of the
Township's notice that it still intends to acquire the requested connection
permits, stating the number of connection permits that the applicant intends to
purchase initially and the capacity that will be required for those connections
(if less than the totals from the original request). The applicant shall
include with its response, if it intends to acquire sanitary sewer connection
permits, a check in an amount equal to the then-current sewer connection fees
for the requested sewer connection permits. Upon receipt of the applicant's
response, and the payment for the sewer connection fees, the Township will
issue the requested sewer connection permits.
   (L)   Failure of the applicant to respond in writing to the Township's
notification under division (I) above, and to provide payment in full for the
requested sanitary sewer connection permits, within 30 calendar days from
receipt of the Township's notice, shall result in the immediate loss of the
sanitary sewer capacity allocation for the applicant's project. The Township
will notify the applicant in writing of the loss of capacity allocation, and
the applicant will have reapply for a capacity allocation in accordance with
division (A) above.
   (M)   The applicant shall obtain building permits and commence construction
on the facilities receiving capacity allocations within two years from the date
when the sanitary sewer connection permits were issued to the applicant, unless
an extension of time is requested in writing by the applicant and granted by
the Township. The Township reserves the right to terminate any capacity
allocations and rescind any connection permits for failure to commence
construction within the two-year limit, unless an extension of time has been
granted.
   (N)   (1)   In order to obtain an extension of time for any allocation that
will not be used within the two- year limit in division (M) above, the
applicant shall submit a request for an extension of time in writing to the
Township Clerk at least six months prior to the end of the two-year period. The
request for an extension of time shall include the following:
         (a)   The amount of additional time requested by the applicant for
obtaining building permits and commencing construction on the remaining
facilities; and
         (b)   Detailed reasons justifying the time extension requested.
      (2)   The Township Clerk will place the extension of time request on the
agenda for the next available Township Committee meeting. An extension of time
can only be granted by resolution adopted by the Township Committee. Any
previous extensions granted to any applicant for any project shall not be
construed as having established a precedent for any subsequent extension of
time request.
   (O)   The Township will refund any connection fees paid by the applicant for
connection permits that have been rescinded under division (M) above, and the
applicant will have to reapply for a capacity allocation in accordance with
division (A) above.
(Ord. 124-08, passed 4-14-08)
§ 51.26 IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF WASTE TO MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Purpose. This section prohibits the spilling, dumping or disposal of
materials other than stormwater to the municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) operated by the Township so as to protect public health, safety and
welfare and to prescribe penalties for the failure to comply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein
unless their use in the text of this section clearly demonstrates a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels or storm drains) that is
owned or operated by the Township or other public body and is designed and used
for collecting and conveying stormwater. NOTE: In municipalities with combined
sewer systems, add the following: MS4s do not include combined sewer systems,
which are sewer systems that are designed to carry sanitary sewage at all times
and to collect and transport stormwater from streets and other sources.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from precipitation (including rain and snow)
that runs off the land’s surface, is transmitted to the subsurface, is captured
by separate storm sewers or other sewerage or drainage facilities or is
conveyed by snow removal equipment.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct. The spilling, dumping or disposal of materials
other than stormwater to the municipal separate storm sewer system operated by
the Township is prohibited. The spilling, dumping or disposal of materials
other than stormwater in such a manner as to cause the discharge of pollutants
to the municipal separate storm sewer system is also prohibited.
   (D)   Exceptions to prohibition.
      (1)   Water line flushing and discharges from potable water sources.
      (2)   Irrigation water (including landscape and lawn watering runoff).
      (3)   Flows from springs, riparian habitats and wetlands, water reservoir
discharges and diverted stream flows.
      (4)   Residential car washing water and residential swimming pool
discharges.
      (5)   Sidewalk, driveway and street wash water.
      (6)   Flows from fire fighting activities.
      (7)   Flows from rinsing of the following equipment with clean water:
         (a)   Equipment used in the application of salt and de-icing materials
immediately following salt and de-icing applications. Prior to rinsing with
clean water, all residual salt and de-icing materials must be removed from
equipment and vehicles to the maximum extent practicable using dry cleaning
methods (e.g., shoveling and sweeping). Recovered materials are to be returned
to storage for reuse or properly discarded.
         (b)   Rinsing of equipment, as noted in the above situation is limited
to exterior, undercarriage and exposed parts and does not apply to engines or
other machinery.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Police Department
and/or local code enforcement official of the Township.
   (F)   Penalties. Any person(s) who continues to be in violation of the
provisions of this section, after being duly notified, shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $250, for each offense.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10; Am. Ord. 257-14,
passed 12-8-14)
§ 51.27 ILLICIT CONNECTIONS TO MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit illicit
connections to the municipal separate storm sewer system(s) operated by the
Township so as to protect public health, safety and welfare and to prescribe
penalties for the failure to comply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein
unless their use in the text of this section clearly demonstrates a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste and wastewater from humans or household
operations.
      ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any physical or non-physical connection that
discharges domestic sewage, non-contact cooling water, process wastewater or
other industrial waste (other than stormwater) to the municipal separate storm
sewer system operated by the Township, unless that discharge is authorized
under a NJPDES permit other than the Tier A Municipal Stormwater General Permit
(NJPDES Permit Number NJ0141852). Non-physical connections may include, but are
not limited to, leaks, flows or overflows into the municipal separate storm
sewer system.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Non-domestic waste, including, but not limited to,
those pollutants  regulated under Section 307(a), (b), or (c) of the Federal
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), (b), or (c)).
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels or storm drains) that is
owned or operated by the Township or other public body and is designed and used
for collecting and conveying stormwater. NOTE: In municipalities with combined
sewer systems, add the following: MS4s do not include combined sewer systems,
which are sewer systems that are designed to carry sanitary sewage at all times
and to collect and transport stormwater from streets and other sources.
      NJPDES PERMIT. A permit issued by the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection to implement the New Jersey Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NJPDES) rules at N.J.A.C. 7:14A.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used to reduce temperature for the
purpose of cooling. Such waters do not come into direct contact with any raw
material, immediate product (other than heat) or finished product. NON- CONTACT
COOLING WATER may however contain algaecides or biocides to control fouling of
equipment such as heat exchangers and/or corrosion inhibitors.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct or waste product.
PROCESS WASTEWATER includes, but is not limited to, leachate and cooling water
other than non-contact cooling water.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from precipitation (including rain and snow)
that runs off the land’s surface, is transmitted to the subsurface, is captured
by separate storm sewers or other sewerage or drainage facilities or in
conveyed by snow removal equipment.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged through an illicit connection to the municipal separate storm sewer
system operated by the Township any domestic sewage, non-contact cooling water,
process wastewater or other industrial waste (other than stormwater).
   (D)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Police Department
and/or local code enforcement official of the Township.
   (E)   Penalties. Any person(s) who is found to be in violation of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for
each offense.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Storm drain inlets. Any person(s) who is found to be in violation of
the provisions of §
51.03 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each storm drain inlet
that is not retrofitted to meet the design standard.
(Ord. 154-09, passed 10-12-09)
   (C)   Dumpsters. Any person(s) who is found to be in violation of the
provisions of §
51.04 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 155-09, passed 10-12-09)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water Emergency
   
52.01   Declaration
   
52.02   Use restrictions
   
52.03   Duration of restrictions
   
52.04   Enforcement
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER EMERGENCY
§ 52.01 DECLARATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Township Committee shall be satisfied and finds that a
water emergency exists in the township, it may adopt a resolution declaring
that a water emergency exists in the township. Such resolution shall be adopted
by the Township Committee at any regular, special, adjourned or emergency
public meeting of the Township Committee. Such resolution shall identify that
portion of the township affected by the water emergency, which may include the
entire township, and shall specify which of the water use regulations contained
in §
52.02 of this subchapter is being imposed as well as any exemptions as may be
authorized. Such resolution shall be effective immediately upon publication
according to law and shall continue in effect for 90 days, unless extended or
repealed as set forth in §
52.03 of this subchapter.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a water emergency shall exist if the
public utility providing water service to all or a portion of the township has
adopted water use restrictions; has notified the township, the New Jersey Board
of Public Utilities and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection,
as well as any other state, county or local agency entitled to notice of such
restrictions; and such restrictions are not overruled or declared invalid by
any state, county or local agency having the jurisdiction and power to so do.
('74 Code, § 128-5) (Ord. 486-1990, passed 2-26-90)
§ 52.02 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Upon adoption by the Township Committee of a resolution declaring that
a water emergency exists in the township in accordance with §
52.01, all citizens shall be urged to observe voluntary indoor conservation
measures and any of the following water use restrictions shall be imposed and
shall be applicable to all residents and tenants, except where a bona fide
health emergency exists and to exempt businesses, as specified herein, during
the water emergency:
      (1)   The complete ban and prohibition of outside water usage, including
the watering of lawns and plants, the filling of pools and the washing of cars.
      (2)   Outside water usage on alternate days allowing outside water use by
persons or businesses having even house or box numbers on even days and those
having odd house or box numbers on odd days with outside water usage being
completely banned and prohibited on the 31st day of any month during the water
emergency.
      (3)   Any other water use restriction specified by the Township Committee
in the resolution required by §
52.01 of this subchapter which is reasonable under the circumstances
considering the nature and extent of the water emergency.
   (B)   Any water restriction imposed pursuant to this section shall be
limited in application to that portion of the township, which may include the
entire township, identified as being affected by the water emergency in the
resolution of the Township Committee adopted in accordance with §
52.01.
('74 Code, § 128-6) (Ord. 486-1990, passed 2-26-90)
§ 52.03 DURATION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The resolution of the Township Committee required by §
52.01 shall, in addition to complying with §
52.01, provide a period of time during which the water use restrictions imposed
shall be applicable and which shall be no longer than reasonably necessary to
abate the water emergency under the circumstances, considering the nature and
extent of the water emergency. At the expiration of the time period specified
in the resolution, it shall adopt a resolution declaring the water emergency
ended and the water use restrictions inapplicable. If, at the expiration of the
time period specified in the resolution, the Township Committee shall be
satisfied that the water emergency continues to exists, it may adopt a
resolution in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter continuing
the water use restrictions.
('74 Code, § 128-7) (Ord. 486-1990, passed 2-26-90)
§ 52.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The water use restrictions imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be
enforced during a water emergency by the local authorized official. Whenever a
local authorized official shall find a violation of the water use restrictions,
such authorized official shall give the violator a written warning and explain
the penalties for a second and third offense as provided by §
52.99. The local authorized official shall keep such records as may be
reasonable and necessary for the purpose of determining the persons and
businesses who have been warned upon a first offense. The local authorize
official is hereby empowered to write summonses for the violation of the water
use restrictions imposed pursuant to this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 128-8) (Ord. 486-1990, passed 2-26-90)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   After a first offense in accordance with §
52.04, any person or business who thereafter violates the water use
restrictions imposed pursuant to §§
52.01 through
52.04 shall be fined or imprisoned in accordance with this section. For a
second offense, the fine imposed shall be $500 or imprisonment for ten days, or
both. For a third and subsequent offenses, the fine imposed shall be $1,000 or
imprisonment for 30 days, or both.
('74 Code, § 128-9) (Ord. 486-1990, passed 2-26-90)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   PROHIBITED OPERATION OF VEHICLES
   
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
   
76. TOWING OF VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Repealer
   
70.03   Traffic signal installation
   
70.04   Closing of streets
   
70.05   Traffic controls for street and highway construction and maintenance
operations
   
70.06   Driver's license, registration certificate, and insurance
identification card be in possession of the driver
   
70.07   Validity
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever any words and phrases are used in this title, the meaning
respectively prescribed to them in N.J.S.A. Title 39, Subtitle 1, shall be
deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein.
('74 Code, § 122-1) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77)
§ 70.02 REPEALER.
   All traffic ordinances of the Township adopted prior to June 1, 1976, are
hereby repealed, except that this repeal shall not affect or prevent the
prosecution or punishment of any person for any act done or committed in
violation of any ordinance hereby repealed prior to the taking effect of this
chapter. Traffic ordinances adopted since June 1, 1976, are hereby expressly
saved from repeal.
('74 Code, § 122-2) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC SIGNAL INSTALLATION.
   All traffic signals installed within the Township shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of An Act Concerning Motor Vehicles and Traffic
Regulations, N.J.S.A. Title 39, Subtitle 1, and shall conform to the design and
shall be maintained in operation as authorized by the New Jersey Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-29) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77)
§ 70.04 CLOSING OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police of the Township is hereby authorized to provide by
regulation for the closing of any street or portion thereof to motor vehicle
traffic on any day or days during specified hours whenever he/she finds that
such closing is necessary for the preservation of the public safety, health or
welfare.
('74 Code, § 122-30.86)
   (B)   Any regulation promulgated by the Chief of Police, under and in
accordance with division (A) above, shall provide for the posting of proper
warning signs of such closing of any street or portion thereof during the time
the same is closed in furtherance thereof.
('74 Code, § 122-30.87)
   (C)   Any regulation adopted under this section shall not become effective
unless and until it has been submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of
the Department of Transportation if the closing is for more than 48 continuous
hours.
('74 Code, § 122-30.89)
(Ord. 681-1993, passed 12-13-93)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC CONTROLS FOR STREET AND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Adoption of manual. The Township hereby finds and declares that
problems of traffic-control occur when traffic must be moved through or around
road or street construction, maintenance operations and utility work, above or
below ground, which requires blocking the roadway and obstructing the normal
flow of traffic, and that such obstructions are or can become dangerous when
not properly controlled. In order to better promote the public health, safety,
peace and welfare, it is necessary to establish controls and regulations
directed to the safe and expeditious movement of traffic through construction
and maintenance zones and to provide safety for the work forces performing
these operations. Accordingly, the Township adopts the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices, hereafter known as “M.U.T.C.D.,” as the same may be
amended from time to time, except as supplemented and amended by this §
70.05, to control and regulate whenever construction, maintenance operations or
utility work obstructs the normal flow of traffic. Any person, contractor or
utility who fails to comply with the provisions of M.U.T.C.D. while performing
such work is in violation of this section. Work performed on State Highway Rt.
73 must comply with N.J. State DOT requirements. ('74 Code, § 122-30.90)
   (B)   Preconstruction meetings. It shall be the responsibility of the
person, contractor or, in the case of a public utility, the party, as required
under the public utility agreement and N.J.A.C. 16:25-9.2, wishing to conduct
work on, under or above the roadway or adjacent to the roadway to contact the
Traffic Unit of the Police Department to arrange a preconstruction meeting in
order to submit plans for the safe movement of traffic during such period of
construction of work. Any person, contractor or utility who fails to comply
with this section prior to the start of such work or whose plans are not
approved by the Traffic Unit of the Police Department is in violation of this
section. ('74 Code, § 122-30.91)
   (C)   Emergency contact phone numbers. The person, contractor or utility
shall provide the Traffic Unit with at least two emergency contact phone
numbers to be called in case of emergency problems at the construction or
maintenance site prior to the start of any work. If for any reason emergency
contacts cannot be reached or if the emergency contact person does not respond
to a call from the Police Department to correct a hazardous condition, the
Township may, but is not required to, correct such hazardous condition. The
reasonable fees for such emergency services by the Township shall be charged to
the person, contractor or utility responsible for such condition. ('74 Code, §
122-30.92)
   (D)   Time limits. There shall be no construction, maintenance operations or
utility work on any residential roadway in the Township before the hour of 7:00
a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. This time limit may be adjusted to permit work prior
to 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. by the officer in charge of the Traffic Unit
of the Police Department. If it is determined by the officer in charge of the
Police Traffic Unit that the construction or maintenance operations prior to 7:
00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m., would substantially delay traffic or cause a
safety or health hazard, the work is deemed to be performed during a certain
time frame. Emergency work performed for the immediate safety, health or
welfare of the community of individuals of the community or to restore property
to a safe condition follow a public calamity shall not be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. ('74 Code, § 122-30.93)
   (E)   Road closings; detours. Road closings and/or traffic detours shall not
be permitted unless approved by the Police Traffic Unit. County and state
roadways shall not be detoured onto municipal roadways, unless during an
emergency road closure. Any planned roadwork, which requires a detour on a
county roadway or State highway shall only be detoured to county roadways or
State highways; unless approved by the Police Department during an emergency.
Municipal roadways may be detoured to other municipal roadways, county
roadways, and state highways. At no time shall a road closure detour onto
private property unless an active emergency or to preserve a crime scene. ('74
Code, § 122-30.94)
   (F)   Traffic directors. Traffic directors shall be posted at all
construction or maintenance sites when determined by the Police Traffic Unit
that the same is necessary to provide for the safe and expeditious movement of
traffic. ('74 Code, § 122-30.95)
   (G)   Stop work. The Traffic Unit of the Police Department shall have the
authority to stop work, including the removal of equipment, vehicles, and the
stored material within the street right-of-way, the backfilling of open
excavations and/or other related work, in order to abate any nuisance and/or
safety hazard or for any violation of this section. ('74 Code, § 122-30.96)
(Ord. 683-1993, passed 12-13-93; Am. Ord. 2007-2012, passed 2-27-12; Am. Ord.
389-21, passed 10-12-21)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 DRIVERS LICENSE, REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE AND INSURANCE IDENTIFICATION
CARD TO BE IN POSSESSION OF DRIVER.
   The driver's license of the driver or operator of a motor vehicle,
registration certificate of the operated motor vehicle and the insurance
identification card with respect to the vehicle shall be in possession of the
driver or operator of the respective motor vehicle at all times while the
driver or operator is in charge of the respective motor vehicle on the streets
and roadways of the Township. The driver or operator shall exhibit his or her
driver's license, the registration certificate of the respective motor vehicle
and the insurance identification card covering the respective motor vehicle
when requested to do so by a Township police officer or a municipal judge,
while in the performance of the duties of his office.
(Ord. 929-99, passed 4-12-99)
§ 70.07 VALIDITY.
   If any parts of this chapter are held to be invalid by a court of law for
any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remaining parts of this chapter.
(Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state statute, every
person convicted of a violation of a provision of this title or any supplement
thereto shall be liable to a penalty of not more than $50 or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 15 days, or both.
('74 Code, § 122-4) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77)
   (B)   Any violation of § 70.04 or of any regulation promulgated thereunder
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.
('74 Code, § 122-30.88) (Ord. 681-1993, passed 12-13-93)
   (C)   Any person, contractor or utility who commits a violation of §
70.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, for each separate offense, pay a fine of
not less than $100 nor more than $500 and/or be imprisoned in the county jail
for a term not exceeding 90 days. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
('74 Code, § 122-30.97) (Ord. 683-1993, passed 12-13-93)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Commercial vehicles in residential zones
   
71.02   Use of cleat-type vehicles prohibited
   
71.03   Bicycle paths
Traffic and Parking Regulations for Specific Locations
   
71.10   Main Street Complex
   
71.11   The Corners Apartments
   
71.12   Main Street Convenience Center
   
71.13   The Echelon Mall
   
71.14   The Village Apartments
   
71.15   Sturbridge Woods and Estates
   
71.16   Cooper Corner
   
71.17   Semipublic Property at Echelon Glen
   
71.18   E.T. Hamilton Elementary School
   
71.19   Laurel Woods Corporate Center
   
71.20   Victoriana Condominiums
   
71.21   Adams Place Office Complex Phase One
   
71.22   The Ritz Theatre Complex
   
71.23   West Jersey Health Systems (Voorhees Campus)
   
71.24   Eagle Plaza Shopping Center Phases One and Two
   
71.25   Eastern Regional High School
   
71.26   The Target Store
   
71.27   Three Ponds Condominium
   
71.28   Hermitage at Main Street Condominium
   
71.29   Chelsea Place Apartments
   
71.30   The Club at Main Street Apartments
   
71.31   Echelon I and Echelon II
   
71.32   Evesham Building Associates
   
71.33   Britton Place Condominium
   
71.34   Centennial Mill
   
71.35   2401 Evesham Road
   
71.36   113 NJSH Route 73
   
71.37   1031 Voorhees Drive
   
71.38   320 Route 73
   
71.39   101 Laurel Oak Road
   71.40   Foster Square Apartments
 
   
71.99   Validity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   No truck, van, bus, trailer or other commercial vehicle in excess of 8,000
pounds registered vehicle weight shall be permitted in any residential zone or
the residential areas of the Township Center or General Business 2 Zone except
for the purpose of picking up or making deliveries in the regular course of
business within such residential zone or for the purpose of installing,
maintaining or otherwise performing public utility service. Signs specifically
prohibiting such vehicles on the streets designated in Chapter 74, Schedule
XIII have been approved by the New Jersey Department of Transportation.
§ 71.02 USE OF CLEAT-TYPE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No cleat-type motor vehicle or construction equipment shall be permitted to
be operated or used on any municipal street in the Township.
(Ord. 929-99, passed 4-12-99)
('74 Code, § 122-10.1) (Ord. 407-1988, passed 5-23-88; Am. Ord. 502-1990,
passed 7-9-90)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   (1)   The Township has striped a five-foot wide bicycle lane on the
existing pavement with traffic control signage on Centennial Boulevard in both
directions; and
      (2)   The lane designation begins at Old Egg Harbor Road and ends
approximately 1,500 feet south of Kresson Road (C.R. 671) where the lane
striping ends; and
      (3)   The bicycle route is designated as “share the road” with
appropriate signage from this point to the Kresson Road intersection; where it
heads southeast on Kresson Road 100 feet; and
      (4)   The bicycle route lane striping begins on Kresson Road,
approximately 100 feet southeast of Centennial Boulevard. The lane is
delineated with striping on each side of the five-foot wide lane and related
traffic control signage. This lane continues to Gibbsboro Road where the
bicycle route temporarily ends; and
      (5)   The bicycle route begins on Dutchtown Road with “share the road”
designation 1,000 feet west of State Highway Route 73. The designated route
continues for approximately one mile along Dutchtown Road until it heads west
along Regency Drive, west on Woodbrook Road, south on Cooper Road and finally
west on Victor Boulevard. The entire portion of the shared use bicycle route
has related traffic control signs notifying motorists that the lane is intended
for shared use with bicyclists; and
      (6)   The five-foot wide, striped bicycle lane begins at the beginning of
Victor Boulevard and is in both directions on Victor Boulevard. The bicycle
route terminates at Berlin Road (C.R. 561); and
      (7)   The bicycle route has been constructed in accordance with NJDOT
(New Jersey Department of Transportation) and AASHTO (American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials) design standards and guidelines.
   (B)   (1)   The Township has created a five-foot wide bicycle lane on the
existing pavement with traffic control signage on Cooper Road in both
directions; and
      (2)   The lane designation begins at the intersection of Centennial
Boulevard and ends approximately at the township line with the Township of
Berlin where the lane striping ends; and
      (3)   The bicycle route shall be designated as "share the road" with
appropriate signage from this point; and
      (4)   The bicycle route has been constructed in accordance with NJDOT
(New Jersey Department of Transportation) and AASHTO (American Association of
State highway and Transportation Officials) design standards and guidelines.
(Ord. 32-03, passed 9-9-03; Am. Ord. 77-06, passed 2-13-06)
TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC LOCATIONS
§ 71.10 MAIN STREET COMPLEX.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in the designated areas and
between the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.13)
   (B)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle on
any roadway at the Main Street Complex.
('74 Code, § 122-30.14)
   (C)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
site plan attached to Ord. 507-1990 and signed with R7-8 (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles (as
shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.15)
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections:
      (1)   All intersections as shown on the site plan, stop sign on near
right side of each street; and
      (2)   Intersection of Roads D and E, stop sign on near right side of each
road at intersection.
('74 Code, § 122-30.16)
   (E)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated (as shown
on the site plan attached to Ord. 507-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.17)
   (F)   Lane use. The following intersections are hereby designated as lane
use reservations (as shown on the attached site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.18)
   (G)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and interior roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all exterior
roadways is 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.19)
   (H)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.20)
   (I)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the Police Department to ensure
installations meet state and federal specifications, and all signing shall
conform to the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.21)
   (J)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to penalty in accordance with the schedule
of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no penalty
has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99. ('74 Code, § 122-30.22)
(Ord. 507-1990, passed 7-23-90; Am. Ord. 839-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 853-
97, passed 12-8-97: AM./ Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99)
Editor's note:
   The Main Street Complex site plan is on file in the Township offices
§ 71.11 THE CORNERS APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in the designated areas and
between the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.24)
   (B)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle on
any roadway at the Corners Apartments.
('74 Code, § 122-30.25)
   (C)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
site plan attached to Ord. 508-1990 and signed with R7-8 (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles (as
shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.26)
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed on the
near right side of each street intersecting the stop intersection (as shown on
the site plan attached to Ord. 508-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.27)
   (E)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated (as shown
on the site plan attached to Ord. 508-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.28)
   (F)   Lane use. The following intersections are hereby designated as lane
use reservations (as shown on the attached site plan). ('74 Code, § 122-30.29)
   (G)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and interior roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all exterior
roadways is 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.30)
   (H)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.31)
   (I)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the Police Department to ensure
installations meet state and federal specifications, and all signing shall
conform to the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.32)
   (J)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to penalty in accordance with the schedule
of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no penalty
has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.33)
(Ord. 508-1990, passed 7-23-90; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Corners Apartments site plan is on file in the Township offices
§ 71.12 MAIN STREET CONVENIENCE CENTER.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in the designated areas and
between the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.35)
   (B)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle on
any roadway at the Main Street Convenience Center.
('74 Code, § 122-30.36)
   (C)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
site plan attached to Ord. 509-1990 and signed with R7-8 (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles (as
shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.37)
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed on the
near right side of each street intersecting the stop intersection (as shown on
the site plan attached to Ord. 509-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.38)
   (E)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated (as shown
on the site plan attached to Ord. 509-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.39)
   (F)   Lane use. The following intersections are hereby designated as lane
use reservations (as shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.40)
   (G)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and interior roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all exterior
roadways is 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.41)
   (H)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.42)
   (I)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the Police Department to ensure
installations meet state and federal specifications, and all signing shall
conform to the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.43)
   (J)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to penalty in accordance with the schedule
of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no penalty
has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.44)
(Ord. 509-1990, passed 7-23-90; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Main Street Convenience Center site plan is on file in the Township
offices
§ 71.13 THE ECHELON MALL.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in the designated areas and
between the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.46)
   (B)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle on
any roadway at The Echelon Mall.
('74 Code, § 122-30.47)
   (C)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
site plan attached to Ord. 510-1990 and signed with R7-8 (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles (as
shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.48)
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed on the
near right side of each street intersecting the stop intersection (as shown on
the site plan attached to Ord. 510-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.49)
   (E)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated (as shown
on the site plan attached to Ord. 510-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.50)
   (F)   Lane use. The following intersections are hereby designated as lane
use reservations (as shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.51)
   (G)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and interior roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all exterior
roadways is 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.52)
   (H)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.53)
   (I)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the Police Department to ensure
installations meet state and federal specifications, and all signing shall
conform to the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.54)
   (J)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to penalty in accordance with the schedule
of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no penalty
has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99. ('74 Code, § 122-30.55)
(Ord. 510-1990, passed 7-23-90; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Echelon Mall site plan is on file in the Township offices
§ 71.14 THE VILLAGE APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in the designated areas and
between the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.57)
   (B)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle on
any roadway at the Village Apartments.
('74 Code, § 122-30.58)
   (C)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
site plan attached to Ord. 511-1990 and signed with R7-8 (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles (as
shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.59)
   (D)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed on the
near right side of each street intersecting the stop intersection (as shown on
the site plan attached to Ord. 511-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.60)
   (E)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated (as shown
on the site plan attached to Ord. 511-1990).
('74 Code, § 122-30.61)
   (F)   Lane use. The following intersections are hereby designated as lane
use reservations (as shown on the attached site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.62)
   (G)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and interior roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all exterior
roadways is 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.63)
   (H)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.64)
   (I)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the Police Department to ensure
installations meet state and federal specifications, and all signing shall
conform to the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.65)
   (J)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to penalty in accordance with the schedule
of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no penalty
has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99. ('74 Code, § 122-30.66)
(Ord. 511-1990, passed 7-23-90; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Village Apartments site plan is on file in the Township offices
§ 71.15 STURBRIDGE WOODS AND ESTATES.
   (A)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed on the
near right side of each street intersecting the stop intersection (as shown on
the site plan attached to Ord. 644-1993).
('74 Code, § 122-30.68)
   (B)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all exterior
roadways is 25 miles per hour.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.69)
   (C)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkways or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.70)
   (D)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. Work shall be
checked by the Police Department to ensure installation meets state and federal
specifications, and all signing shall conform to the current Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.71)
   (E)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty in accordance with the
schedule of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no
penalty has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.72)
(Ord. 644-1993, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Editor's note:
   The Sturbridge Woods and Estates site plan is on file in the Township
offices
§ 71.16 COOPER CORNER.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in designated areas and between
the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.74)
   (B)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle on
any roadway at Cooper Corner.
('74 Code, § 122-30.75)
   (C)   No parking anytime. No person shall park a vehicle at the following
location: The entire front of the building.
('74 Code, § 122-30.76)
   (D)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
site plan attached to Ord. 645-1993 and signed with R7-8 (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicap parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles (as shown
on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.77)
   (E)   Employee parking. The areas as shown on the attached site plan shall
be for employee parking only. All vehicles must be properly identified.
('74 Code, § 122-30.78)
   (F)   Stop intersections. The intersections as shown on the site plan are
designated as stop intersections.
('74 Code, § 122-30.79)
   (G)   Lane use. The following intersections are hereby designated as lane
use reservations (as shown on the site plan).
('74 Code, § 122-30.80)
   (H)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and interior roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.81)
   (I)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.82)
   (J)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. Work shall be
checked by the Police Department to ensure installations meet state and federal
specifications, and all signing shall conform to the current Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.83)
   (K)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty in accordance with the
schedule of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no
penalty has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.84)
(Ord. 645-1993, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 733-95, passed 5-22-95; Am. Ord. 853-
97, passed 12-8-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Editor's note:
   The Cooper Corner site plan is on file in the Township offices
§ 71.17 SEMIPUBLIC PROPERTY AT ECHELON GLEN.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in designated areas and between
the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.98)
   (B)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide and signed with
R7-8 (Reserved Parking sign and penalty plate), in the designated parking areas
for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.99)
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.100)
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.101)
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. Work shall be checked by the
Police Department to ensure installations meet state and federal
specifications, and all signing shall conform to the current Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
('74 Code, § 122-30.102)
   (F)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be liable to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.103)
(Ord. 682-1993, passed 12-13-93; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.18 E.T. HAMILTON ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park only in designated areas and between
the lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.105)
   (B)   Stop intersections. Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140,
the intersections described are hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop
signs shall be installed as provided therein: At the intersection of Main Drive
and the driveway from Parking Lot A, a stop sign shall be placed on the
driveway from Parking Lot A.
('74 Code, § 122-30.106)
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic in the parking lots
and roadways shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.107)
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.108)
   (E)   Roadways. The following roadways shall be for exit only: Roadway from
Parking Lot A at Main Drive.
('74 Code, § 122-30.109)
   (F)   No stopping or standing. No person shall stop or stand a vehicle at
all times upon any of the following described streets or parts of streets:
      (1)   On Haddonfield-Kresson Road (County Road 671), beginning from
Centennial Boulevard to Evesham Road.
      (2)   On both sides of Main Drive, beginning from the easterly curbline
of Boundary Lane to a point 135 feet east therefrom.
('74 Code, § 122-30.110) (Am. Ord. 830-97, passed 9-8-97)
   (G)   Student pickup. The following area is hereby designated for student
pickup only: On the north side of Main Drive, beginning from the westerly
curbline of Parking Lot A driveway to a point 135 feet west of Boundary Lane.
('74 Code, § 122-30.111)
   (H)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated: On the
west side of Main Drive beginning in the westerly curbline of Parking Lot A
driveway to Boundary Lane.
('74 Code, § 122-30.112)
   (I)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.113)
   (J)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be liable to a penalty as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.114)
(Ord. 734-95, passed 5-22-95; Am. Ord. 797-97, passed 4-28-97)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.19 LAUREL WOODS CORPORATE CENTER.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any streets or parts
of streets described as follows: at any time on both sides of all roads for the
entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the site plan attached to Ord. 750-95 and signed with R7-8 and R7-8P (reserved
parking sign and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who
have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor
Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.115)
   (B)   Stop intersections. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein:
      (1)    At the intersection of Road A and Laurel-Oak Road, a stop sign
shall be placed on Road A.
      (2)   At the intersection of Road A and Road B, a stop sign shall be
placed on Road B.
      (3)   At the intersection of Road B and Road C (both intersects), a stop
sign shall be placed on Road C (both intersects).
('74 Code, § 122-30.116)
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the parking lot
(s) shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limits for both directions of travel on the following
roads are: 15 miles per hour on the entire length of all roadways.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.117)
   (D)   Tow-away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or impede
a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones, oil
fills, any grass area or pedestrian walkways or present in any way a safety or
traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.118)
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts, bolts or other necessary
materials shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall
conform to the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 39:4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.119)
   (F)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty in accordance with the
schedule of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no
penalty has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.120)
(Ord. 750-95, passed 12-11-95; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Laurel Wood Corporate Center site plan is on file in the Township
offices.
§ 71.20 VICTORIANA CONDOMINIUMS.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park only in designated areas and between the
lines provided.
      (2)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the attached site plan and signed with R7-8 and R7-8P (reserved parking sign
and penalty plate) in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.122)
   (B)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are hereby
designated as stop intersections. Step signs shall be installed as provided
therein:
      (1)   At the intersection of Gregory's Way and Buttonwood Drive, a stop
sign shall be placed on Gregory's Way.
      (2)   At the intersection of Gregory's Way and Kirkbride Road, a stop
sign shall be placed on Gregory's Way.
      (3)   At the intersection of Roberts Way and Kirkbride Road, a stop sign
shall be placed on Roberts Way.
      (4)   At the intersection of Sandra Road and Kirkbride Road, a stop sign
shall be placed on Sandra Road.
      (5)   At the intersection of Roberts Way and Sandra Road, a stop sign
shall be placed on Roberts Way.
('74 Code, § 122-30.123)
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the parking lot
(s) shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on the entire length
of the following roadways are:
         (a)   Kirkbride Road, 25 mph.
         (b)   Sandra Road, 25 mph.
         (c)   Gregory's Way, 15 mph.
         (d)   Roberts Way, 15 mph.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.124)
   (D)   Tow-away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or impede
a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones, oil
fills, any grass-area, pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety or
traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.125)
   (E)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty in accordance with the
schedule of penalties adopted for such violation. For violations for which no
penalty has previously been prescribed, the penalty shall be as set forth in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.126)
(Ord. 757-96, passed 3-11-96; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97; Am. Ord. 963-99,
passed 11-22-99 )
Editor's note:
   The Victoriana Condominiums site plan is on file in the Township office.
§ 71.21 ADAMS PLACE OFFICE COMPLEX PHASE ONE.
   (A)   Parking. All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the
lines provided.
('74 Code, § 122-30.128)
   (B)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on the
attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R7-8 and R7-8P
(Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking areas for
persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the Division of
Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.128)
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.129)
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.130)
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.131)
   (F)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.132)
(Ord. 835-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Adams Place Office Complex Phase One site plan is on file in the
Township Clerk's office.
§ 71.22 RITZ THEATRE COMPLEX.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: the Ritz Theatre, entire perimeter of
the building.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R7-8 and
R7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.156)
   (B)   Stop intersections. Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140,
all areas shown on the attached site plan as stop intersections are hereby
designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as provided in
N.J.S.A. 39:4-140.
('74 Code, § 122-30.157)
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.158)
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.159)
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.160)
   (F)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.161)
(Ord. 837-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Ritz Theatre site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's office.
§ 71.23 WEST JERSEY HEALTH SYSTEMS (VOORHEES CAMPUS).
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, all hours, for
the entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R7-8 and
R7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.134)
   (B)   Reserved parking. Only those vehicles that are granted specialty
parking in this section (such as police vehicles, ambulances, teachers, and the
like, which must be properly identified) are permitted to park in Reserved
Parking areas as shown on the attached site plan.
('74 Code § 122-30.135)
   (C)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are hereby
designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near right
side of each street intersecting the through street, except where yield signs
are provided for in the designation.
      (1)   Carnie Boulevard, entire length;
      (2)   Mohrfeld Drive, entire length;
      (3)   Road A, entire length; and
      (4)   Road B, entire length.
('74 Code § 122-30.136)
   (D)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets, in the direction indicated:
      (1)   Road F, North, entire length;
      (2)   Road G, North, entire length;
      (3)   Road H, North, entire length;
      (4)   Road I, South, entire length; and
      (5)   Road L, North, entire length.
('74 Code § 122-30.137)
   (E)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on the following
roadways are as follows:
         (a)   Carnie Boulevard, 20 m.p.h., entire length;
         (b)   Mohrfeld Drive, 20 m.p.h., entire length; and
         (c)   Roads A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, and L, 15 m.p.h., entire
length.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.138)
   (F)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.139)
   (G)   Loading Zones. The locations described are hereby designated as a
loading zone. No person shall park a vehicle in these locations during the
times indicated other than for the loading or unloading of goods and materials:
      (1)   Road H, all times, East side, as indicated on site plan;
      (2)   Road I, all times, West side, as indicated on site plan;
      (3)   Road G, all times, East side, as indicated on site plan;
      (4)   Various loading docks, all times, as indicated on site plan; and
      (5)   Road J, all times, south side, as indicated on site plan.
('74 Code § 122-30.140)
   (H)   Bus stops. The locations described are hereby designated as bus stops.
No vehicle, other than an omnibus picking up or discharging passengers, shall
be permitted to occupy these locations between the hours indicated: Carnie
Boulevard (southbound) on the westerly side at Road I (far side) beginning at
the southerly curb line of Road I (northerly intersect) and extending southerly
to within 25 feet of the mid-block crosswalk on Carnie Boulevard, all hours.
('74 Code § 122-30.141)
   (I)   Turn prohibitions. No person shall make a turn at any location listed
and only in the manner described: Carnie Boulevard, U-turns prohibited, entire
length.
('74 Code § 122-30.142)
   (J)   Mid-block crosswalks. The following described locations are hereby
designated as mid-block crosswalks:
      (1)   Carnie Boulevard, as indicated on site plan;
      (2)   Road A, as indicated on site plan; and
      (3)   Road J, as indicated on site plan.
('74 Code § 122-30.143)
   (K)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.144)
   (L)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.145)
(Ord. 836-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97; Am. Ord. 963-
99, passed 11-22-99)
Editor's note:
   The West Jersey Health Systems (Voorhees Campus) site plan is on file in the
Township Clerk's office.
§ 71.24 EAGLE PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER PHASES ONE AND TWO.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R7-8 and
R7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.147)
   (B)   Stop intersections. Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140,
the intersections described are hereby designated as stop intersection. Stop
signs shall be installed as provided in N.J.S.A. 39:4-140.
      (1)   Main Drive and Center Drive, stop sign on Center Drive;
      (2)   Center Drive and Interior Drive, stop sign on Interior Drive; and
      (3)   Interior Drive and McDonald's Driveway, stop sign on McDonald's
Driveway.
('74 Code § 122-30.148)
   (C)   Speed limits. 
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.149)
   (D)   Lane use reservations. The land locations described are designated as
lane use reservations and traffic shall move only as indicated:
      (1)   The most northerly driveway at Voorhees Drive: eastbound left lane
for left turn only, eastbound right lane for through and right turn only;
      (2)   The most southerly driveway at Voorhees Drive: eastbound left lane
for left turn only, eastbound right lane for through and right turn only; and
      (3)   Main Drive and Center Drive Westbound: Right lane for right turn
only, left lane for left turn only.
('74 Code § 122-30.150)
   (E)   Mid-block crosswalks. The areas designated on the site plan with a
W11A-2 (Crossing Sign) are hereby designed as mid-block crosswalks.
('74 Code § 122-30.151)
   (F)   Tow-away zone. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.152)
   (G)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.153)
   (L)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.154)
(Ord. 838-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97)
Editor's note:
   The Eagle Plaza Shopping Center Phases One and Two site plan is on file in
the Township Clerk's office.
§ 71.25 EASTERN REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, all hours, for
the entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R7-8 and
R7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
('74 Code, § 122-30.166)
   (B)   Reserved parking. Only those vehicles that are granted specialty
parking in this section (such as police vehicles, ambulances, teachers, and the
like, which must be properly identified) are permitted to park in Reserved
Parking areas as shown on the attached site plan.
('74 Code § 122-30.167)
   (C)   Through streets, stop intersections and yield intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near
right side of each street intersecting the through street, except where yield
signs are provided for in the designation.
         (a)   Road A, entire length; and
         (b)   Road B, entire length.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided herein:
         (a)   Road B and Road D; stop sign at Road D;
         (b)   Road C and Road D; stop sign at Road D;
         (c)   Road E and Aisle #2 (both intersections); stop sign at Aisle #2
(both intersections);
         (d)   Laurel Oak Road and Exit Drive; stop sign at Exit Drive; and
         (e)   Road C and Aisle #2; stop sign at Aisle #2.
      (3)   Yield intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as yield intersections. Yield signs shall be installed as
provided herein: Road A and Entrance Drive; yield sign at Road A.
   (D)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated:
      (1)   Entrance Drive, east, entire length;
      (2)   Road A, east, entire length;
      (3)   Aisle #1, east, entire length;
      (4)   Road B, west (counter-clockwise), entire length;
      (5)   Road C, south, entire length; and
      (6)   Exit Drive, west, entire length.
('74 Code § 122-30.169)
   (E)   Speed limits.  
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on the following
roadways are as follows: all roads, 15 miles per hour, entire length.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
('74 Code, § 122-30.170)
   (F)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-30.171)
   (G)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A 39:4-183.27.
('74 Code, § 122-30.172)
   (H)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
('74 Code, § 122-30.173)
(Ord. 852-97, passed 12-8-97; Am. Ord. 853-97, passed 12-8-97; Am. Ord. 857-97,
passed 1-26-98; Am. Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99)
Editor's note:
   The Eastern Regional High School site plan is on file in the Township
Clerk's office.
§ 71.26 THE TARGET STORE.
      (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, all hours, for
the entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 feet wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R7-8 and
R7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permits by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets, stop intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near
right side of each street intersecting the through street, except where yield
signs are provided for in the designation:
         (a)   Road A, entire length; and
         (b)   Road B, entire length.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided herein:
         (a)   Executive Drive and Road B (North intersection); stop sign at
Road B (North intersection); and
         (b)   Executive Drive and Road B (South intersection); stop sign at
Road B (South intersection).
   (C)   Speed limits. 
      (1)   The speed limits for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on the following
roadways are as follows: all roads, 15 miles per hour, entire length.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Tow away zone. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)   Loading Zones. The locations described are hereby designated as a
loading zone. No person shall park a vehicle in these locations during the
times indicated other than for the loading or unloading of goods and materials:
Road B, all times, East side, as indicated on site plan.
   (F)   Turn prohibitions. No person shall make a turn at any location listed
and only in the manner described: White Horse Road (C.R. 673) and Road A, left
turns prohibited, from northbound on Road A to westbound on White Horse Road
(C.R. 673).
   (G)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signing shall conform to
the current Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A 39:4-183.27.
   (H)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99.
(Ord. 877-98, passed 5-26-98; Am. Ord. 857-97, passed 1-26-98)
Editor's note:
   The Target Store site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's office.
§ 71.27 THREE PONDS CONDOMINIUM.
   (A)    Parking.
      (1)    All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)    No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any streets or parts
of streets described as follows: all courts, both sides, all hours, for the
entire length.
      (3)    Handicapped Parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on
the attached site plan and will be marked with signage pursuant to R.7-8 and
R.7-8P (Reserved Parking Signs and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)    Through streets and stop intersections.
      (1)    Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near
right side of each street intersection the through street, except where yield
signs are provided for in the designation.
         (a)    Three Ponds Drive, for the entire length.
      (2) Stop intersections. The following described intersections are hereby
designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as provided
herein.
         (a)    Three Ponds Drive and Kirkbride Road; stop sign on Three Ponds
Drive.
         (b)    Golden Pond Court and Kirkbride Road; stop sign on Golden Pond
Drive.
   (C)    Speed limits.
      (1)    The speed limit for both directions of travel on all roadways
shall be 15 miles per hour over the entire length of such roadways.
      (2)    Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)    Tow away zone. Any vehicles parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)    Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (F)    Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly
provided by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this
section or any supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
§
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 920-99, passed 4-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Three Ponds Condominium site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's
office.
§ 71.28 HERMITAGE AT MAIN STREET CONDOMINIUM
   (A) Parking.
      (1) All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any streets or parts
of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, for the entire length.
      (3) Handicapped Parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on the
attached site plan and will be marked with signage pursuant to R.7-8 and R.7-8P
(Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking areas for
persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the Division of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are hereby
designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near right
side of each street intersection the through street, except where yield signs
are provided for in the designation.
      (1)   Hermitage Drive, entire length.
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Hermitage Drive
shall be 20 miles per hour, entire length.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Main Street shall
be 20 miles per hour, entire length.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Tow away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)   Mid-block crosswalks. The following locations are hereby designated as
mid-block crosswalks:
      (1) Hermitage Drive, as indicated on site plan;
      (2) Main Street, as indicated on site plan.
   (F)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (G)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 921-99, passed 4-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Hermitage at Main Street Condominium site plan is on file in the
Township Clerk's office.
§ 71.29 CHELSEA PLACE APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any streets or parts
of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, for the entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R.7-8 and
R.7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets and stop intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near
right side of each street intersection the through street, except where yield
signs are provided for in the designation.
         (a)   Hermitage Drive, entire length.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided herein:
         (a)   Chelsea Drive and Chelsea Court; stop sign at Chelsea Drive.
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Hermitage Drive
shall be 20 miles per hour, entire length.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Chelsea Drive
shall be 15 miles per hour, entire length.
      (3)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Chelsea Court
shall be 15 miles per hour, entire length.
      (4)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Tow away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (F)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 922-99, passed 4-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Chelsea Place Apartments site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's
office.
§ 71.30 THE CLUB AT MAIN STREET APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any streets or parts
of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on
the attached site plan and will be marked with signage pursuant to R. 7-8 and
R. 7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are hereby
designated as Through Streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near right
side of each street intersection the through street, except where yield signs
are provided for in the designation: Hermitage Drive, for the entire length.
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Hermitage Drive
shall be 20 miles per hour, entire length.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Berwyn Court shall
be 15 miles per hour, entire length.
      (3)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on Avalon Court shall
be 15 miles per hour, entire length.
      (4)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Tow away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)   Mid-block crosswalks. The following locations are hereby designated as
mid-block crosswalks:
      (1)   Hermitage Drive, as indicated on site plan.
      (2)   Berwyn Court, as indicated on site plan.
      (3)   Avalon Court, as indicated on site plan.
   (F)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (G)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 923-99, passed 4-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Club at Main Street Apartments site plan is on file in the Township
Clerk's office.
§ 71.31 ECHELON I AND ECHELON II.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: Roads "A" and "B", both sides, for the
entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on
the attached site plan, and will be marked with signage pursuant to R.7-8 and
R.7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Stop intersections. The intersections described below are hereby
designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as provided in
subsection (E).
      (1)   Laurel Road and Road A; stop sign on Road A.
      (2)   Road A and Road B; stop sign on Road B.
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all roadways shall
be 15 miles per hour over the entire length of such roadways.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Tow away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (F)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 924-99, passed 4-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Echelon I and Echelon II site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's
office.
§ 71.32 EVESHAM BUILDING ASSOCIATES.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: all roads, both sides, at all hours, for
the entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on
the attached site plan and will be marked with signage pursuant to R.7-8 and
R.7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
      (4)   Reserved parking. All vehicles that are granted special parking in
the reserved parking spaces as shown on the attached site plan, including, but
not limited to, police vehicles, ambulances and teachers, must be properly
identified.
   (B)   Through streets and stop intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near
right side of each street intersecting the through street, except where yield
signs are provided for in the designations: Road "A", for the entire length.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The intersections described below are hereby
designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as provided
herein.
      (1)   Cooper Road and Road A, stop sign on Road A.
      (2)   Road B and Aisle C, stop sign on Road B.
   (C)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of streets
are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated: Road "B",
heading west, for the entire length.
   (D)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic for the parking lot
areas shall be 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on all roadways shall
be 15 miles per hour over the entire length of such roadways.
      (3)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (E)   Tow away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (F)   Turn prohibitions. No person shall make a turn at any location listed
below and only in the manner described: at the intersection of Clements Bridge-
Evesham Road (C.R. 544) and Road "A", no left turn from northbound on Road "A"
to westbound on Clements Bridge-Evesham Road (C.R. 544).
   (G)   Loading zones. The locations described below are hereby designated as
loading zones. No person shall park a vehicle in a designated loading zone
during the times indicated other than for the purpose of loading and unloading
of goods and materials:
      (1)   Road "B", at all times, on the north side, as indicated on the site
plan.
      (2)   Aisle "A", at all times, on the west side, as indicated on the site
plan.
   (H)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (I)   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 936-99, passed 7-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Evesham Building Associates site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's
office.
§ 71.33 BRITTON PLACE CONDOMINIUM.
   (A)   Parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described as follows: Road "A", both sides, at all times, for
the entire length.
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All stalls shall be 12 foot wide as shown on
the attached site plan and will be marked with signage pursuant to R.7-8 and
R.7-8P (Reserved Parking Sign and Penalty Plate), in the designated parking
areas for persons who have been issued the Handicapped Parking Permit by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Stop intersections. The intersections described below are hereby
designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as provided in
division (E): Lucas Lane and Road A, stop sign on Road A.
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of travel on the following
roadways shall be as follows: Road "A", the entire length, 15 miles per hour.
      (2)   Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above designated speed limits authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
   (D)   Tow away zone. Any vehicle parked or standing so as to obstruct or
impede the normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or
operator's expense.
   (E)   Installation of signs. All signs, posts or other necessary materials
shall be installed and paid for by the applicant. All signage shall conform to
the current manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:
4-198 and N.J.S.A. 39:4-183.27.
   (F) Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by state statute, every person convicted of a violation of this section or any
supplement thereto shall be subject to a penalty as provided in §
70.99. For violations for which no penalty has previously been prescribed, the
penalty shall not be more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15
days, or both.
(Ord. 937-99, passed 7-12-99)
Editor's note:
   The Britton Place Condominium site plan is on file in the Township Clerk's
office.
§ 71.34 CENTENNIAL MILL.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   Designated areas. All vehicles must park in designated areas and
between the lines provided.
      (2)   Time limits. No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the
time limit upon any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
Name of Street Sides Hours Location
Name of Street  Sides Hours Location
Borton Avenue   Left  All   From Matlack Dr. to Old Mill Dr. to Borton Ave.
                            (north end) 90-degree curve
Borton Avenue   Right All   From Borton Ave. (north end) 90-degree curve to Old
                            Mill Dr. to Matlack Dr.
Matlack Drive   Left  All   From Centennial Blvd. to Borton Ave.
Stokes Avenue   Right All   From Matlack Dr. to Milford Circle
Milford Circle  Left  All   From Matlack Dr. to cul-de-sac
Commerce Drive  Right All   From Borton Ave. to Alyce Lane
Lumbermill Lane Right All   From Borton Ave. to Alyce Lane
 
Name of Street Sides Hours Location
Name of Street    Sides Hours Location
Lumbermill Lane   Left  All   From Alyce Lane to Old Mill Dr. to Matlack Dr.
Marple Mill Drive Right All   From Borton Ave. to Hopkins St.
Alyce Lane        Right All   From Borton Ave. to Matlack Dr.
Hopkins Street    Left  All   From Borton Ave. to Old Mill Dr. to Matlack Dr.
Waterway Avenue   Right All   From Matlack Dr. (north side of loop) to Old Mill
                              Dr. to Matlack Dr. (south side of loop)
Hillard Drive     Left  All   From Old Mill Dr. to Matlack Dr.
Old Mill Drive    Both  All   From Centennial Blvd. to Lumbermill Dr.
 
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be eight-foot
wide, with an eight-foot loading area and standard handicapped parking stalls
shall be eight-foot wide with a five-foot loading area as shown on the attached
site plan and signed with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking with Penalty Plate),
in the designated parking areas for persons who have been issued the
Handicapped Parking Permit by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets, stop and yield intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. The following streets or parts of streets are
hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed on the near
right side of each street intersecting the through street except where yield
signs are provided for in the designation.
 
Name of Street Limits
Milford Circle From the cul-de-sac to the south curbline of Matlack Dr.
Stokes Avenue  From the south curbline of Matlack Dr. to the east curbline of
               Milford Circle
Matlack Drive  From the west curbline of Centennial Blvd. to the east curbline
               of Borton Mill Road at the ‘T’ intersection
 
Name of Street Limits
Name of Street                         Limits
                                       From the west curbline of Centennial
Old Mill Drive                         Blvd. to the east curbline of Matlack
                                       Dr.
Hillard Drive                          From the north curbline of Matlack Dr.
                                       to the south curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Waterway Avenue (south side of Old     From the north curbline of Matlack Dr.
Mill)                                  to the south curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Waterway Avenue (north side of Old     From the north curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Mill)                                  to the south curbline of Matlack Dr.
Borton Avenue (south side of Old Mill) From the north curbline of Old Mill Dr
                                       to the south curbline of Matlack Dr.
                                       From the north curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Borton Avenue (north side of Old Mill) to the north curbline of Old Mill Dr.
                                       (at the main gate intersection)
Hopkins St. (south side of Old Mill)   From the north curbline of Matlack Dr.
                                       to the south curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Hopkins St. (north side of Old Mill)   From the north curbline of Old Mill Dr.
                                       to the south curbline of Borton Ave.
Lumbermill Lane (south side of Old     From the north curbline of Matlack Dr.
Mill)                                  to the south curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Alyce Lane (south side of Old Mill)    From the north curbline of Matlack Dr.
                                       to the south curbline of Old Mill Dr.
Alyce Lane (north side of Old Mill)    From the north curbline of Old Mill Dr.
                                       to the south curbline of Borton Ave.
Commerce Drive                         From west curbline of Borton Ave. to the
                                       east curbline of Alyce Lane
Lumbermill Lane                        From west curbline of Borton Ave. to the
                                       east curbline of Alyce Lane
Marple Mill Drive                      From west curbline of Borton Ave. to the
                                       east curbline of Alyce Lane
Marple Mill Drive                      From west curbline of Alyce Lane to the
                                       east curbline of Hopkins St.
 
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
Intersection Stop Signs On
Intersection                                            Stop Signs On
Matlack Drive and Borton Avenue (‘T’ inter./south loBorton Avenue
Matlack Drive and Borton Avenue (4-way inter.)          Borton Avenue
Matlack Drive and Borton Avenue (‘T’ inter./north loMatlack Drive
Matlack Drive and Alyce Lane                            Alyce Lane
Matlack Drive and Lumbermill Lane                       Lumermill Lane
Matlack Drive and Hopkins Street                        Hopkins Street
Matlack Drive and Waterway Avenue                       Waterway Avenue
Matlack Drive and Hillard Drive                         Hillard Drive
Matlack Drive and Stokes Avenue                         Stokes Avenue
Matlack Drive and Milford Circle                        Milford Circle
Milford Circle and Stokes Avenue                        Stokes Avenue
Borton Avenue and Commerce Drive                        Commerce Drive
Borton Avenue and Lumbermill Lane                       Lumbermill Lane
Borton Avenue and Marple Mill Drive                     Marple Mill Drive
Borton Avenue and Alyce Lane                            Alyce Lane
Borton Avenue and Hopkins Street                        Hopkins Street
Marple Mill Drive and Hopkins Street                    Marple Mill Drive
Old Mill Drive and Borton Avenue                        Borton Avenue
Old Mill Drive and Alyce Lane                           Alyce Lane
Old Mill Drive and Lumbermill Lane                      Lumbermill Lane
Old Mill Drive and Hopkins Street                       Hopkins Street
Old Mill Drive and Waterway Avenue                      Waterway Avenue
Old Mill Drive and Hillard Drive                        Hillard Drive
Old Mill Drive and Matlack Drive                        Old Mill Drive
Matlack Drive and Alley ‘B’                         Alley ‘B’
 
Intersection Stop Signs On
Intersection                     Stop Signs On
Matlack Drive and Alley ‘D’  Alley ‘D’
Borton Avenue and Alley ‘F’  Alley ‘F’
Waterway Avenue and Alley ‘G’Alley ‘G’
Hopkins Street and Alley ‘I’ Alley ‘I’
Borton Avenue and Alley ‘K’  Alley ‘K’
Matlack Drive and Alley ‘N’  Alley ‘N’
Lumbermill Lane and Alley ‘Q’Alley ‘Q’
Lumbermill Lane and Alley ‘R’Alley ‘R’
Hopkins Street and Alley ‘T’ Alley ‘T’
Commerce Drive and Alley ‘U’ Alley ‘U’
Commerce Drive and Alley ‘W’ Alley ‘W’
Lumbermill Lane and Alley ‘Y’Alley ‘Y’
Lumbermill Lane and Alley ‘A1Alley ‘A1’
Marple Mill Drive and Alley ‘B2Alley ‘B2’
Milford Circle and Alley ‘B17Alley ‘B17’
Milford Circle and Alley ‘B10Alley ‘B10’
Milford Circle and Alley ‘B13Alley ‘B13’
 
      (3)   One-way streets. The following described streets or parts of
streets are hereby designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated.
Name of Street Direction Limits
Name of Street  Direction       Limits
Lumbermill Lane west/southbound Alyce Lane to Old Mill Drive
Alley ‘A’   westbound       Hillard Drive to end
Alley ‘B’   southbound      Alley ‘A’ to Matlack Drive
Alley ‘C’   westbound       Waterway Ave. to Alley ‘D’
Alley ‘D’   northbound      End to Matlack Drive
Alley ‘E’   southbound      Alley ‘B19’ to Alley ‘F’
Alley ‘F’   eastbound       End to Borton Ave.
 
Name of Street Direction Limits
Name of Street Direction  Limits
Alley ‘G’  westbound  Borton Ave. to Waterway Ave.
Alley ‘H’  southbound Alley ‘B20’ to Alley ‘I’
Alley ‘I’  eastbound  End to Hopkins St.
Alley ‘J’  westbound  Hopkins St. to end
Alley ‘K’  northbound Alley ‘J’ to Borton Ave.
Alley ‘L’  eastbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘K’
Alley ‘M’  eastbound  Hopkins St. to end
Alley ‘N’  southbound Alley ‘M’ to Matlack Dr.
Alley ‘O’  eastbound  Hopkins St. to Alley ‘R’
Alley ‘P’  southbound Alley ‘O’ to Alley ‘Q’
Alley ‘Q’  eastbound  End to Lumbermill Ln.
Alley ‘R’  southbound Marple Mill Dr. to Lumbermill Ln.
Alley ‘S’  northbound Marple Mill Dr. to Borton Ave.
Alley ‘T’  westbound  Alley ‘S’ to Hopkins St.
Alley ‘U’  northbound End to Commerce Dr.
Alley ‘V’  westbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘W’
Alley ‘W’  southbound End to Commerce Dr.
Alley ‘X’  westbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘Y’
Alley ‘Y’  northbound End to Lumbermill Ln.
Alley ‘Z’  westbound  Borton Ave to Alley ‘A1’
Alley ‘A1’ southbound End to Lumbermill Ln.
Alley ‘B1’ westbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘B2’
Alley ‘B2’ southbound Borton Ave. to Marple Mill Dr.
Alley ‘B3’ westbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘B2’
Alley ‘B4’ eastbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘B5’
Alley ‘B5’ northbound Alley ‘B4’ to Alley ‘B21’
 
Name of Street Direction Limits
Name of Street Direction  Limits
Alley ‘B6’ southbound Alley ‘B7’ to Alley ‘B8’
Alley ‘B7’ eastbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘B6’
Alley ‘B8’ westbound  Alley ‘B6’ to Borton Ave.
Alley ‘B9’ southbound Stokes Ave. to Alley ‘B10’
Alley ‘B10’westbound  Alley ‘B9’ to Milford Circle
Alley ‘B11’westbound  Milford Circle to Alley ‘B12’
Alley ‘B12’southbound Alley ‘B11’ to Alley ‘B13’
Alley ‘B13’eastbound  Alley ‘B13’ to Milford Circle
Alley ‘B14’westbound  Milford Circle to Alley ‘B15’
Alley ‘B15’northbound Alley ‘B14’ to Alley ‘B13’
Alley ‘B16’northbound Milford Circle to Alley ‘B10’
Alley ‘B17’westbound  Stokes Ave. to Milford Circle
Alley ‘B18’westbound  Borton Ave. to Alley ‘U’
Alley ‘B19’eastbound  Waterway Ave. to end
Alley ‘B20’eastbound  Borton Ave. to end
Alley ‘B21’westbound  Alley ‘B5’ to Borton Ave.
Alley ‘B22’northbound Matlack Dr. to Alley ‘B23’
Alley ‘B23’westbound  Alley ‘B22’ to Lumbermill Ln.
 
      (4)   Speed limits. The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the
parking aisles shall be 25 miles per hour.
      (5)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety or
traffic hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner’s or
operator’s expense.
      (6)   Lane use reservations. The lane locations described are designated
as lane use reservations and traffic shall move as indicated.
 
Intersection                       Movement
Centennial Blvd. and Matlack Drive Left turn only - left lane of eastbound
                                   Matlack Dr.
Centennial Blvd. and Matlack Drive Right turn only - right lane of eastbound
                                   Matlack Dr.
 
Intersection Movement
Intersection                        Movement
                                    Left turn only - left lane of northbound
                                    Centennial Blvd.
Centennial Blvd. and Matlack Drive  Centennial Blvd. and Matlack Drive right
                                    turn only - right lane of southbound
                                    Centennial Blvd.
Centennial Blvd. and Old Mill Drive Left turn only - left lane of eastbound Old
                                    Mill Dr.
Centennial Blvd. and Old Mill Drive Right turn only - right lane of eastbound
                                    Old Mill Dr.
Centennial Blvd. and Old Mill Drive Left turn only - left lane of northbound
                                    Centennial Blvd.
Centennial Blvd. and Old Mill Drive Right turn only - right lane of southbound
                                    Centennial Blvd.
Old Mill Drive and parking lot      Left turn only - left lane of westbound Old
                                    Mill Dr.
 
      (7)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be
designated as no passing zones.
(Ord. 149-09, passed 6-8-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.35 2401 EVESHAM ROAD.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
 
Name of Street Sides Hours Location
Access drive   Both  All   From Cooper Road (CR 675) to Evesham Road (CR 544)
Drive aisles   Both  All   Entire Site
(Unless in designated spaces)
 
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be eight feet
wide with an eight- foot loading area, and standard handicapped parking stalls
shall be eight feet wide with a five-foot loading area as shown on the site
plan attached to Ord. 171-10, and signed with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking
with Penalty Plate), in the designated parking areas for persons who have been
issued the handicapped parking permit by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets, stop and yield intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. No through traffic is permitted between Cooper
Road (CR 675) and Evesham Road (CR 544) for any other purpose than to utilize
or patronize any facilities on the site. No person shall drive a motor vehicle
through the property for the purpose of avoiding a traffic signal or sign on
the public roadways.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
 
Intersection                            Stop Signs on
Access Drive and Cooper Road (CR 675)   Access Drive
Access Drive and Evesham Road (CR 544)  Access Drive
Access Drive and internal drive aisles  Internal drive aisles
Front drive aisle and side parking lots Front drive aisle
 
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the parking
aisles shall be 25 mph.
      (2)   The advisory speed limit for the speed hump is 15 mph.
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading zones,
oil fills, any grassy area, pedestrian walkway, or present in any way a safety
or traffic hazard, may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owner’s or
operator’s expense.
   (E)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be designated
as no passing zones.
(Ord. 171-10, passed 10-10-10)
§ 71.36 113 NJSH ROUTE 73.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
 
Name of Street                Sides Hours Location
Access Drive and Drive Aisles Both  All   Entire Site
(Unless in Designated Spaces)
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be 11-feet
wide, with a five-foot loading area and standard handicapped parking stalls
shall be eight-feet wide with a five-foot loading area as shown on the attached
site plan and signed with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking with Penalty Plate),
in the designated parking areas for persons who have been issued the
handicapped parking permit by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets, stop and yield intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. No through traffic is permitted between New Jersey
State Highway Route 73 and Lakeside Avenue for any other purpose than to
utilize or patronize any facilities on the side. No person shall drive a motor
vehicle through the property for the purpose of avoiding a traffic signal or
sign on the public roadways.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
 
Intersection                       Stop Signs on:
Access Drive and NJSH Route 73     Access Drive
Access Drive and Lakeside Avenue   Access Drive
Access Drive and Front Drive Aisle Front Drive Aisle
Access Drive and Rear Drive Aisle  Access Drive
 
   (C)   Speed limits. The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the
parking aisle shall be 15 mph.
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct a normal
flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading/unloading zones,
pedestrian walkways, or present in any way a safety or traffic hazard may be
removed by towing the vehicle at the owners or operator’s expense.
   (E)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be designated
as no passing zones.
(Ord. 242-13, passed 12-26-13)
§ 71.37 1031 VOORHEES DRIVE.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
 
Name of Street                Sides Hours Location
Access Drive and Drive Aisles Both  All   Entire Site
(Unless in Designated Spaces)
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be 11-feet
wide, with a five-foot loading area or eight-feet wide, with an eight-foot
loading area and standard handicapped parking stalls shall be eight-feet wide
with a five-foot loading area as shown on the attached site plan and signed
with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking with Penalty Plate), in the designated
parking areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permit
by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets, stop and yield intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. No through traffic is permitted between Executive
Drive and Voorhees Drive for any other purpose than to utilize or patronize any
facilities on the site. No person shall drive a motor vehicle through the
property for the purpose of avoiding a traffic signal or sign on the public
roadways.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated a stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
Intersection Stop Signs on:
Intersection                               Stop Signs on:
Access Drive and Voorhees Drive            Access Drive
Access Drive and Executive Drive           Access Drive
Rear Access Drive and Executive Drive      Access Drive
Access Drive and Front Drive Aisle         Front Drive Aisle
Drop-off Lane and Front Dive Aisle         Drop-off Lane
Front Drive Aisle and Drop-off Lane Access Front Drive Aisle
Side Parking Area and Rear Drive Aisle     Side Parking Area
   (C)   Speed limits. The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the
parking aisles shall be 15 mph.
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading/
unloading zones, pedestrian walkways, or present in any way a safety or traffic
hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owners or operator’s
expense.
   (E)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be designated
as no passing zones.
(Ord. 243-13, passed 12-26-13)
§ 71.38 320 ROUTE 73.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
 
Name of Street                Sides Hours Location
Access Drive and Drive Aisles Both  All   Entire Site
(Unless in Designated Spaces)
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be 11-feet
wide, with a five-foot loading area or eight-feet wide, with an eight-foot
loading area and standard handicapped parking stalls shall be eight-feet wide
with a five-foot loading area as shown on the attached site plan and signed
with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking with Penalty Plate), in the designated
parking areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permit
by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   Stop and yield intersections.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated a stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
 
Intersection                             Stop Signs on:
Access Drive and Route 73                Access Drive
Access Drive and Front N/S Drive Aisle   Front N/S Drive Aisle
Access Drive and Middle N/S Drive Aisle  Access Drive
Drop-off Lane, Middle Drive Aisle and    Drop-off Lane and Middle Drive Aisle
Side Drive Aisle (north)
Middle Drive Aisle and Side Parking Area Middle Access Drive and WB Drive Aisle
Drive Aisle (south)
   (C)   Speed limits. The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the
parking aisles shall be 15 miles per hour.
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading/
unloading zones, pedestrian walkways, or present in any way a safety or traffic
hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owners or operator’s
expense.
   (E)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be designated
as no passing zones.
(Ord. 252-14, passed 6-9-14)
§ 71.39 101 LAUREL OAK ROAD.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
 
Name of Street                Sides Hours Location
Access Drive and Drive Aisles Both  All   Entire Site
(Unless in Designated Spaces)
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be 11-feet
wide, with a five-foot loading area or eight-feet wide, with an eight-foot
loading area and standard handicapped parking stalls shall be eight-feet wide
with a five-foot loading area as shown on the attached site plan and signed
with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking with Penalty Plate), in the designated
parking areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permit
by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   Stop and yield intersections.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated a stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
 
Intersection                              Stop Signs on:
South Access Drive and White Horse Road   South Access Drive
South Access Drive and Front Parking Area Front Parking Area
North Access Drive and Rear Parking Area  North Access Drive
North Access Drive and Laurel Oak Road    Front Access Drive
Drive-Thru and North Drive Aisle          Drive-Thru Exit
 
   (C)   Speed limits. The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the
parking aisles shall be 15 mph.
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicles parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading/
unloading zones, pedestrian walkways, or present in any way a safety or traffic
hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owners or operator’s
expense.
   (E)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be designated
as no passing zones.
(Ord. 253-14, passed 6-9-14)
§ 71.40 FOSTER SQUARE APARTMENTS.
   (A)   General parking.
      (1)   All vehicles must park in designated areas and between the lines
provided.
      (2)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit upon
any of the streets or parts of streets described below.
 
Name of Street                Sides Hours Location
Access Drive and Drive Aisles Both  All   Entire Site
(Unless in Designated Spaces)
 
      (3)   Handicapped parking. All van accessible stalls shall be 11 feet
wide, with a five-foot loading area (or eight feet wide, with an eight-foot
loading area) and standard handicapped parking stalls shall be eight feet wide
with a five-foot loading area as shown on the attached site plan and signed
with R7-8 and R7-8P (Reserved Parking with Penalty Plate), in the designated
parking areas for persons who have been issued the handicapped parking permit
by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Through streets, stop and yield intersections.
      (1)   Through streets. No through traffic is permitted on Abitaire
Boulevard for any other purpose than to utilize or patronize any facilities on
the site. No person shall drive a motor vehicle through the property for the
purpose of avoiding a traffic signal or sign on the public roadways.
      (2)   Stop intersections. The following described intersections are
hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall be installed as
provided therein.
 
Intersection                                      Stop Signs on:
Parking Lot Drive Aisles and Parking Garage Exits Parking Garage Exits
Abitaire Boulevard and Parking Lot Drive Aisles   Parking Lot Drive Aisles
Abitaire Boulevard and Echelon Road               Abitaire Boulevard
 
   (C)   Speed limits.
      (1)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic on Abitaire
Boulevard shall be 25 mph.
      (2)   The speed limit for both directions of traffic in the parking
aisles of the parking lots shall
be 15 mph.
   (D)   Tow-away zones. Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or
impede a normal flow of traffic, block entrances or exit ways, loading/
unloading zones, pedestrian walkways, or present in any way a safety or traffic
hazard may be removed by towing the vehicle at the owners or operator's
expense.
   (E)   No passing zones. All streets or parts of streets shall be designated
as No Passing Zones.
(Ord. 294-17, passed 2-13-17)
§ 71.99 VALIDITY.
   If any part or parts of this chapter are held to be invalid by a court of
law for any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining parts of this chapter.
(Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.02   Parking within lines
   
72.03   Tow-away zones
   
72.04   Emergency no parking
   
72.05   Handicapped parking
   
72.06   Fire zones
   
72.07   Temporary no parking zones
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this traffic code imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person of the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles as set forth in N.J.S.A. 39:4-138, any other state statute or as
hereinafter provided.
('74 Code, § 122-5) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77)
§ 72.02 PARKING WITHIN LINES.
   In any location in which there are designated parking areas, all vehicles
must park in the designated areas and between the lines indicating parking
spaces.
('74 Code, § 122-9.1) (Ord. 506-90, passed 7-23-90)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 TOW-AWAY ZONES.
   Any vehicle parked or standing as to obstruct or impede a normal flow of
traffic, block entrances or exitways, loading zones, oil fills, any grass area
or pedestrian walkway or present in any way a safety or traffic hazard may be
removed by towing the vehicle at the owner's or operator's expense.
('74 Code, § 122-9.2) (Ord. 506-90, passed 7-23-90)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 EMERGENCY NO PARKING.
   (A)   Designation of snow emergency no-parking areas.
      (1)   Whenever snow has fallen and the accumulation is such that it
covers the street or highway, no vehicle shall be parked on either side of any
of the streets or parts thereof described in Chapter 74 of this code.
      (2)   The above parking prohibitions shall remain in effect after the
snow has ceased until the streets have been plowed sufficiently and to the
extent that parking will not interfere with the normal flow of traffic.
('74 Code, § 122-22)
   (B)   Posting of signs.
      (1)   Upon the declaration of an emergency, there shall be no parking
upon streets or sections of streets where temporary emergency no-parking signs
are displayed. The Chief of Police or, in his absence, the ranking police
officer is authorized to declare an emergency and to direct the posting of the
emergency no-parking signs when weather conditions, accidents, fires or public
celebrations dictate or require the avoidance of hazards or other conditions
which interfere with the free flow of traffic.
      (2)   Notification that the emergency no-parking signs are being or will
be posted shall be given to the operator or owner of any vehicle which has been
parked prior to the posting of the signs.
('74 Code, § 122-23)
   (C)   Removal of vehicles. Any unoccupied vehicle parked or standing in
violation of this section shall be deemed a nuisance and a menace to the safe
and proper regulation of traffic, and any peace officer may provide for the
removal of such vehicle. The owner shall pay the reasonable costs of the
removal and storage which may result from such removal, before regaining
possession of the vehicle.
('74 Code, § 122-24)
   (D)   Effectiveness of section. The effectiveness of this section is
contingent on signs being erected as required by law.
('74 Code, § 122-25)
(Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish certain areas
that are private property which are open to the public or to which the public
is invited, which shall be designated as handicapped parking spaces for use by
persons who have been issued special identification cards by the Division of
Motor Vehicles. No other person shall be permitted to park in these spaces.
('74 Code, § 122-30.1)
   (B)   Legislative authority. This section is enacted in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 39:4-197.5 and 40:48-2.46, which does confer upon the Township the
right to establish handicapped parking spaces in order to preserve and
safeguard the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
('74 Code, § 122-30.2)
   (C)   Designation of areas; signs. The areas listed in Chapter 74 of this
code shall be designated as handicapped parking spaces for use by persons who
have been issued special identification cards by the Division of Motor
Vehicles. No other persons shall be permitted to park in these spaces. The
spaces shall be marked by signs indicating the handicapped parking spaces in
conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and
Highways, most recent edition, on file with the New Jersey State Department of
Transportation, as may be amended from time to time.
('74 Code, § 122-30.3)
   (D)   Record of locations. The locations listed in
Chapter 74 of this code have been required to provide for parking spaces
designated as handicapped parking spaces, which spaces shall be marked by signs
indicating “Handicapped Parking Spaces.” The Chief of Police is hereby
empowered to maintain a record of locations requiring handicapped parking
spaces, to which record additional locations may be added as approved by the
Planning Board.
('74 Code, § 122-30.4)
(Ord. 356-1987, passed 2-23-87)
   (E)   Failure to exhibit placard. The handicapped permit or placard shall be
readily visible at all times within any motor vehicle parking in the areas
listed in
Chapter 74 of this code.
('74 Code, § 122-30.5.1) (Ord. 755-96, passed 2-26-96)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 FIRE ZONES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish certain areas
that are private property which are open to the public or to which the public
is invited as “Parking Fire Zones.” No person shall be permitted to park in
these zones. This is to provide for the access of fire and other emergency
response equipment to these areas to safeguard the public safety and welfare.
('74 Code, § 122-30.6)
   (B)   Statutory authority. This section is enacted in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.46.
('74 Code, § 122-30.7)
   (C)   Designation. Fire zones shall be established on all properties listed
and identified in Chapter 74, Schedule V, which fire zones shall be marked by
signs indicating “No Parking Fire Zone.” Such zones shall be in conformance
with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways,
adopted March 20, 1973, and filed with the State Department of Transportation
on March 21, 1973. The owners of such properties shall be responsible for the
installation, maintenance and upkeep of any and all such signs and devices
called for in this section.
('74 Code, § 122-30.8)
   (D)   Records to be kept. The Police Department is hereby empowered and
directed to maintain a record of fire zone locations, to which record
additional locations may be added as approved by the Planning Board.
('74 Code, § 122-30.9)
   (E)   Parking prohibited. No person shall park a vehicle at any time in or
upon any of the fire zones or parts thereof as described in Chapter 74,
Schedule V.
('74 Code, § 122-30.10)
   (F)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall prevent an authorized
emergency vehicle from parking in these fire zones while on official business
or enforcing the provisions of this section.
('74 Code, § 122-30.11)
(Ord. 485-1990, passed 2-26-90)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 TEMPORARY NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Upon the determination of the Township Police Department (the
Department) that weather conditions, accidents, fires, police emergencies or
public or private celebrations dictate or require avoidance of hazards or other
conditions which interfere with the free flow of traffic, the Department is
hereby authorized to establish temporary no parking on any Township street or
sections of streets affected thereby. Notification that such no parking zones
are being established shall be given to the operator or owner of any vehicle
parked in such areas prior to the establishment of such zones. Temporary no
parking zones shall be designated by the posting of signs clearly indicating
the temporary no parking of vehicles and the area or areas covered by the
temporary parking restrictions, as required by state and local law.
   (B)   Any unoccupied vehicle parked or standing in violation of the
temporary no parking established by the Department shall be deemed a nuisance
and a menace to the safe and proper regulation of traffic and any police
officer may provide for the removal of such vehicle. The owner of any vehicle
removed pursuant to this ordinance shall pay the reasonable costs of the
removal and storage of such vehicle that results from such removal before
regaining possession of the vehicle.
(Ord. 833-97, passed 9-8-97)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state statute, every
person convicted of a violation of §
72.05(A) through (D) shall be liable to a fine of not more than $100 for the
first violation and $100 for each additional violation, plus court costs.
('74 Code, § 122-30.5) (Ord. 356-1987, passed 2-23-87; Am. Ord. 630-1992,
passed 12-30-92)
   (C)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state statute, every
person convicted of a violation of §
72.05(E) shall be liable to a fine of not more than $25. If a person charged
with a violation of this section can exhibit his/her handicapped permit or
placard to the judge of the municipal court before whom he/she is summoned to
answer to the charge, such judge may dismiss the charge. However, the judge may
impose court costs.
('74 Code, § 122-30.5.1) (Ord. 755-96, passed 2-26-96)
   (D)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state statute, every
person convicted of a violation of a provision of §
72.06 or Ch. 75, Sch. V will be liable to a penalty of not more than $25.
('74 Code, § 122-30.12) (Ord. 485-1990, passed 2-26-90)
   (E)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by state statute, every
person convicted of a violation of a provision of §
72.07 will be liable to a penalty of not more than $100 or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 15 days, or both.
(Ord. 833-97, passed 9-8-97)
CHAPTER 73: PROHIBITED OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation on Township-owned land
   
73.03   Operation on private property
   
73.04   Noise
   
73.05   Reckless operation
   
73.06   Use for public work
   
73.07   Parental responsibility
   
73.08   Validity
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TOWNSHIP-OWNED LAND.  All parks, recreation areas, ball parks, lake areas,
storage facilities, garage areas, Board of Education property and any and all
other Township or publicly owned land and premises, excluding public streets,
sidewalks and other areas dedicated or commonly used for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
('74 Code, § 124-1) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
§ 73.02 OPERATION ON TOWNSHIP-OWNED LAND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any type of motor-driven
vehicle or conveyance, including but not necessarily limited to snowmobiles,
two-wheel motor vehicles known as mini-bicycles, trail bicycles, motor scooters
and four-wheel motor vehicles, commonly known as go-carts, dune buggies or
quads, upon any Township-owned land in the Township. This prohibition, however,
shall not apply to licensed motor-driven vehicles operated on designated
driveways and parking areas within such Township-owned land.
('74 Code, § 124-2) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.03 OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The operation of a motor-driven vehicle as defined in §
73.02 of this chapter is additionally prohibited upon private property, unless
the operator of the motor-driven vehicle is the owner of the property or has in
such person's possession the expressed written permission to operate the
vehicle on the private property by the owner of the property.
('74 Code, § 124-3) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor-driven vehicle as defined in §
73.02 in a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so as to
disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons.
('74 Code, § 124-4) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to operator any motor-driven vehicle as defined in §
73.02 in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the safety
of any person or the property of any person.
('74 Code, § 124-5) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.06 USE FOR PUBLIC WORK.
   It shall not be unlawful for any employee of this Township to operate motor-
driven vehicles as defined in §
73.02 for the purpose of maintenance, repairing or doing any public work within
the scope of his employment.
('74 Code, § 124-6) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
§ 73.07 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or any person having the care,
custody and control of any child under the age of 17 years to permit such child
to operate a motor driven vehicle, as defined in §
73.02, in violation of the terms of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 124-7) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.08 VALIDITY.
   If any part or parts of this chapter are held to be invalid by a court of
law for any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining parts of this chapter.
(Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any child operator or parent, as defined in this chapter, who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to a fine not exceeding $500 or to imprisonment for any term not
exceeding 90 days, or both.
('74 Code, § 124-8) (Ord. 1971-18, passed 12-14-71)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Yield intersections
   
V.   Prohibited turns at intersections
   
VI.   Prohibited right turns on red signal
   
VII.   Left turn prohibitions
   
VIII.   Lanes reserved for certain purposes
   
IX.   Speed limits
   
X.   Traffic control signals
   
XI.   No passing zones
   
XII.   Pedestrian crosswalks
   
XIII.   Overweight trucks excluded
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The streets or parts of streets described in this schedule are hereby
designated as one-way streets in the direction indicated.
 
Street            Direction of     Limits           Ord. No. Date Passed
                  Travel
                                   Between White    337-198
Front St.         West             Horse Rd. and    6        9-22-86
                                   Poplar Ave.      349-198  10-27-86
                                                    6
                                                             12-13-93Southern
                                   From Echelon Rd.          driveway closest
                                   to a point 93             to Bibbs Rd.West
Northern driveway                  feet, where it   678-199  From the parking
closest to Van    East             adjoins the      3        lot of Maiaroto
Buren Rd.                          parking lot to            Field to a point
                                   Maiaroto Field            28 feet to Echelon
                                                             Rd.678-199
                                                             312-13-93
The driveway
circling the
traffic island
located nearest
to the entrance/                                    468-198
exitway of the    Counterclockwise ­               9        9-11-89
parking area
located on Lot
7.08 of Block
150.18 (Echelon
Skating Center)
('74 Code, §§ 122-11, 122-36)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the streets or parts of
streets described in this schedule are hereby designated as through streets.
Stop signs shall be installed on the near right side of each street
intersecting the through street, except where yield signs are provided for in
the designations.
Street               Limits                  Ord. No. Date Passed
                     Between Evesham Ave.
Alpha Ave.           and its most southerly  572-1991 9-10-91
                     terminus
                     Between their
Bibbs Rd.-Kirkbridge southeasterly and
Rd.                  northwesterly           572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersections with
                     Echelon Rd.
                     Between Kresson-
Bradford Way         Gibbsboro Rd. and       572-1991 9-10-91
                     Eastwood Dr.
                     Between Covington Ln.
                     and its most
Bunning Dr.          northeasterly           572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersection with Whyte
                     Dr.
Carriagebrooke Dr.   Entire length           855-97   12-29-97
Chippenham Dr.       Between Woodhurst Dr.   572-1991 9-10-91
                     and Bradford Way
                     Between Clements Bridge
Cooper Rd.           Rd. and Gibbsboro-
                     Milford Rd.
Cooper Rd.           Between Gibbsboro-
                     Milford Rd. and Rt. 73
                     Between Kresson Rd. and
Covington Ln.        its southeasterly       572-1991 9-10-91
                     terminus
East and West Holly  Between Evesham Rd. and
Oak Dr.              its most northerly      572-1991 9-10-91
                     terminus
                     Between East and West
East Red Oak Dr.     Holly Oak Dr. and       572-1991 9-10-91
                     Cooper Rd.
Echelon Rd.          Entire length           419-1988 9-26-88
Farmhouse Lane       Entire length           855-97   12-29-97
                     Between Pine Ave. and            12-29-97Forrest Hills
Fifth Street         its most southerly      855-97   Dr.Between Cooper Rd.
                     terminus                         and its northerly
                                                      terminus572-19919-10-91
                     Between Evesham Rd. and
                     Kresson Rd.; thence,
                     between Kresson Rd. and
Centennial Boulevard Cooper Rd.; thence      572-1991 9-10-91
                     between Cooper Rd. and  830-97   9-8-97
                     the Voorhees Township-
                     Gibbsboro corporate
                     line
                     Between Clements
                     Bridge-Evesham Rd. and
                     Carlton Ave.-Somerdale
Green Ridge Rd.      Rd. (yield signs having 464-1989 8-14-89
                     sides 36 inches in
                     length shall be
                     installed on Round Hill
                     Rd. and Acorn Ln.)
                     Between Whitehorse Rd.
                     and Haddonfield-Berlin
Laurel Oak Rd.       Rd.; thence between     572-1991 9-10-91
                     Haddonfield-Berlin Rd.
                     and its most
                     northwesterly terminus
Lucas Ln.            Entire length           419-1988 9-26-88
                     From County Rt. 561 to  631-1992 12-30-92
Northgate Dr.        its easterly most       656-1993 5-24-93
                     terminus
                     Between Northgate Dr.
                     and its most
Penn Rd.             southwesterly           572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersection with
                     Tulane Ave.
                     Between Evesham Ave.
Peregrine Dr.        and its most northerly  572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersection with
                     Willow Brook Way
                     Between its northerly
Round Hill Dr.       and southerly           572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersections with
                     Green Ridge Rd.
                     Between Penn Rd. and
Sunset Dr.           its most northerly      572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersection with
                     Paradise Dr.
Van Buren Rd.        Between Echelon Rd. and 572-1991 9-10-91
                     Lucas Ln.
                                                      9-26-88Westminster Dr.-
                     Between Haddonfield-             Cambridge Dr.Between
                     Berlin Rd. (County Rt.           White Horse Rd. and
Victor Blvd.         561) and Cooper Rd.     419-1988 their most northerly
                     (County Rt. 675)                 intersection with
                                                      Westminster Dr.537-
                                                      19912-25-91
                     Between Rt. 73 and its
William Feather Dr.  most easterly           572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersection with Tenby
                     Chase
                     Between its most
Willow Brook Way     easterly intersection   572-1991 9-10-91
                     with Peregrine Dr. and
                     its easterly terminus
                     Between Briarwood Dr.
Woodhurst Dr.        and its westerly        572-1991 9-10-91
                     intersection with
                     Chippenham Dr.
Yorkshire Dr.        Between Westminster Dr. 537-1991 2-25-91
                     and Radcliff Dr.
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-12, 122-37)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the intersections described
in this schedule are hereby designated as stop intersections. Stop signs shall
be installed as provided therein.
Intersection           Stop Sign On            Ord. No. Date Passed
Atlantic Avenue and    Atlantic Avenue and
Lennox Avenue          Lennox Avenue (all      439-23   8-14-23
                       ways)
Avenue-Oak-Terrace and Avenue-Oak-Terrace      572-1991 9-10-91
School Ln.
Bradford Way and       Bradford Way            572-1991 9-10-91
Eastwood Dr.
Britton Pl. and Laurel Britton Pl.             572-1991 9-10-91
Rd.
Brookview Dr. and      Barclay Ln.             152-09   9-21-09
Barclay Ln.
Brookview Dr. and      Brookview Ct.           152-09   9-21-09
Brookview Ct.
Brookview Dr. and Fox  Fox Hollow Rd.          152-09   9-21-09
Hollow Rd.
Brookview Dr. and      Brookview Dr.           572-1991 9-10-91
Signal Hill Dr.
Bunning Dr. and Whyte  Bunning Dr.             572-1991 9-10-91
Dr.
Burlington Ave. and    Burlington Ave.         572-1991 9-10-91
Mercer Ave.
Camden Ave. and Mercer Camden Ave.             572-1991 9-10-91
Ave.
Chestnut Avenue and    Chestnut Avenue         218-12   9-24-12
South Fourth Street
Chestnut Avenue and    Chestnut Avenue         218-12   9-24-12
South Fourth Street
Concord Ln. and        Concord Ln.             572-1991 9-10-91
Dutchtown Rd.
Cornell Dr. East and   Cornell Dr. East
Sunset Dr.
Cornell Dr. West and   Cornell Dr. West
Sunset Dr.
Covington Lane and                             959-99   11-8-99
Elliot Drive
Deerfield Dr. and      Deerfield Dr.           572-1991 9-10-91
Hidden Acres Dr.
Downing Ln. and Regan  Downing Ln.             572-1991 9-10-91
Ln.
Dutchtown Rd. and Howe Howe Blvd.              275-16   2-22-26
Blvd.
                       Eastbound approach to
                       Dutchtown Rd. Stop sign
Dutchtown Rd. and Howe must be mounted with an 275-16   2-22-16
Blvd.                  "Oncoming Traffic Does
                       Not Stop" (W4-4bP)
                       plaque.
First Avenue at        First Avenue            441-23   10-10-23
Jefferson Avenue
First Avenue at        First Avenue            441-23   10-10-23
Lafayette Avenue
Ford St. and Essex     Ford St.                572-1991 9-10-91
Ave.
Ford St. and Mercer    Ford St.                572-1991 9-10-91
Ave.
Ford Street and        Ford St (northbound and 960-99   11-8-99
Sommerset Avenue       southbound)
Forrest Hills Dr. and  Forrest Hills Dr. (for
Forrest Hills Dr.      northbound traffic      572-1991 9-10-91
                       only)
Holly Oak Drive and                            961-99   11-8-99
Red Oak Drive
Hudson Ave. and Ford   Hudson Ave.             572-1991 9-10-91
St.
Laurel Rd. and Echelon Laurel Rd. (for                  9-10-91Lennox Ave. and
Rd.                    northbound traffic      572-1991 Atlantic Ave.Lennox
                       only)                            Ave.572-19919-10-91
Lucas Ln. and Britton  Lucas Ln.               572-1991 9-10-91
Pl.
Mercer Ave. and Bergen Mercer Ave.             572-1991 9-10-91
Ave.
Mercer Ave. and        Mercer Ave.
Middlesex Ave.
Middlesex Ave. and     Middlesex Ave.          572-1991 9-10-91
Mercer Ave.
Penn Rd. and Northgate Penn Rd.                572-1991 9-10-91
Dr.
Penn Rd. and Tulane    Penn Rd.                572-1991 9-10-91
Ave.
Pine Avenue and South  South Fourth Street     218-12   9-24-12
Fourth Street
Regan Ln. and Jacobs   Regan Ln.               572-1991 9-10-91
Ln.
Salem Ave. and Ford    Salem Ave.              572-1991 9-10-91
St.
Second Avenue at       Second Avenue           441-23   10-10-23
Jefferson Avenue
Second Avenue at       Second Avenue           441-23   10-10-23
Lafayette Avenue
South Fifth Street and South Fifth Street (all 218-12   9-24-12
Carriagebrooke Street  ways)
South Fourth Street    South Fourth Street     218-12   9-24-12
and Locust Street      (all ways)
South Fourth Street    South Fourth Street     218-12   9-24-12
and Spruce Street      (all ways)
South Fourth Street    South Fourth Street     218-12   9-24-12
and Walnut Street      (all ways)
Sunset Dr. and         Sunset Dr. (at their
Paradise Dr.           most northerly          572-1991 9-10-91
                       intersection)
Third Avenue at        Third Avenue            441-23   10-10-23
Lafayette Avenue
Treebark Ter. and      Treebark Ter.           572-1991 9-10-91
Courtland Dr.
Warren Ave. and Lennox Warren Ave.             572-1991 9-10-91
Ave.
White Horse Road and   South Fourth Street     218-12   9-24-12
South Fourth Street
William Feather Dr.    William Feather Dr. (at
and Tenby Chase        their most easterly     572-1991 9-10-91
                       intersection)
Woodhurst Dr. and      Woodhurst Dr.           572-1991 9-10-91
Briarwood Dr.
All driveways and
exitways leading from                                   9-11-89The driveway and
the parking areas of                                    exitway leading from
the buildings located                                   the parking area of the
on Lots 7.08, 7.10,                                     building now commonly
7.12 and 7.15 of Block All driveways and                known as "Echelon
150.18 (Echelon        exitways                468-1989 Skating Center" on Lot
Skating Center,                                         7.08 of Block 150.18 to
Holiday Matrix,                                         the adjacent driveway
Fuddruckers and First                                   which leads to White
Pennsylvania Bank,                                      Horse Rd.Driveway and
respectively) onto                                      exitway468-19899-11-89
White Horse Rd.
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-13, 122-38)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the intersections described
in this schedule are hereby designated as yield intersections. Yield signs
shall be installed as provided herein.
 
Intersection                Yield Sign On               Ord. No. Date Passed
Acorn Hill Dr. and East Red Acorn Hill Dr. (at its most
Oak Dr.                     easterly intersection with  572-1991 9-10-91
                            East Red Oak Dr.)
Laurel Rd. and Echelon Rd.  Laurel Rd. (for southeast   572-1991 9-10-91
                            bound traffic only)
Regan Ct. and Carlton Ln.   Regan Ct.                   572-1991 9-10-91
Regan Ln. and Carlton Ln.   Regan Ln.                   572-1991 9-10-91
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-14, 122-39)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V. PROHIBITED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   No person shall make a turn of the kind designated (left, right, all) at any
of the locations described in this schedule.
 
Street        Direction of Prohibited Turn Intersection    Ord. No. Date Passed
              Travel
Eagle Plaza
Shopping                                   White Horse Rd.
Center        West         Left            (travelin       745-95   10-10-95
(exiting onto                              g south)
White House
Rd.)
Echelon
Village Plaza                              White Horse Rd.
Shopping      East         Left            (travelin       675-1993 12-13-93
Center (most                               g north)
northerl
y exit)
Haddon Ave.   North        Left            Rt. 561         684-1993 12-13-93
                           Left (from 8:00
Peacock Ln.   North        a.m. to 4:00    Peregrine Dr.   674-1993 12-13-93
                           p.m.
White Horse   South        Left            Eagle Plaza     745-95   10-10-95
Rd.                                        Shopping Center
('74 Code, §§ 122-19, 122-44)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI. PROHIBITED RIGHT TURNS ON RED SIGNAL.
   No person shall make a right turn when facing a steady red signal (stop
indication) at any of the locations described in this schedule whenever
official signs are present prohibiting such turn.
 
Location                                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Burnt Mill Rd. intersecting Somerdale Rd./West Somerdale 464-1989 8-14-89
Rd., excluding the northeast corner of Somerdale Rd.
Burnt Mill Rd. intersecting White Horse Rd.
Evesham Ave. intersecting Burnt Mill Rd.
Laurel Rd. intersecting the entrance to the Echelon Mall 608-1992 7-13-92
adjacent to the Camden County Library, in all directions
Rt. 561 intersecting West Somerdale Rd. and Evesham Ave. 464-1989 8-14-89
Rt. 561 intersecting White Horse Rd.
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-20, 122-45)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VII. LEFT TURN PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall make a left turn at any of the following locations:
Street Direction Intersection
Street                              Direction Intersection
Avian Plaza - 2999 Evesham Road     North     Evesham Road (CR 544)
(both entrances/exits)
Echelon Village Plaza Shopping      East      White Horse Rd. (traveling north)
Center (most northerly exit)
From the entranceway leading
directly into the parking area      -         -
located on Lot 7.08 of Block 150.18
(Echelon Skating Center)
From the exit of 18 White Horse     South     -
Road
Peregrine Drive from 3:00 p.m. to   West      Peregrine Drive and Peacock Lane
4:00 p.m. school days
White Horse Road                    South     Into Eagle Plaza
Lafayette Avenue (CR 693)           East      NJ State Route 73
 
('74 Code, § 122-53) (Ord. 241-1984, passed 12-10-84; Am. Ord. 273-1985, passed
5-28-85; Am. Ord. 468-1989, passed 9-11-89; Am. Ord. 19-00, passed 2-22-00; Am.
Ord. 33-00, passed 11-27-00; Am. Ord. 09-02, passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. 364-20,
passed 6-22-20; Am. Ord. 375-21, passed 1-25-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. LANES RESERVED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   The lane locations described in this schedule are designated as lane use
reservations, and traffic shall move only as indicated. All vehicles shall move
as described below:
Street Direction Lane Reserved Purpose Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Direction     Lane Reserved Purpose        Ord. No. Date Passed
Evesham Rd.
(County Road
554)
From a point
300 feet east
of Holy Oak
Dr./Short Hills                             Two-Way Left
Dr. and         Both          Center        Turn Only      932-99   4-26-99
countinuing
eastwardly
2,780 feet to a
point 300 feet
west of Cooper
Rd./Cropwell
Rd.
Evesham Road
(County Road
554) (from
Burnt Mill Road Eastbound to  Center        Left turn lane 272-15   12-29-15
(County Road    northbound                  only
670) to a point
475 feet to the
west)
Haddonfield Rd.
(County Rt.     North to west Center        Left turn only 446-1989 3-27-89
561)
Haddonfield -
Kresson Road
(County Road                                Two-way left   797-97   4-28-97
671) from       Both          Center        turn only      830-97   9-8-97
Centennial
Boulevard to
Evesham Road
Laurel Oak Rd.
to White Horse  South to east Center        Left turn only 446-1989 3-27-89
Rd.
Laurel Oak Rd.
(from Vorhees
Dr. to White    North to west Center        Left turn only 774-96   11-11-96
Horse Rd. CR-
673)
Laurel Oak Rd.
(from Vorhees
Dr. to White    South to east Center        Left turn only 774-96   11-11-96
Horse Rd. CR-
673)
Somerdale Road
(CR-678) (from
Burnt Mill Road Eastbound to  Center        Left turn lane 829-97   9-8-97
(CR-670) to a   Northbound                  only
point 805 feet
East)
Somerdale Road
(CR-678) (from
Burnt Mill Road Westbound to  Center        Left turn lane 829-97   9-8-97
(CR-670) to a   Southbound                  only
point 805 feet
East)
Somerdale Rd.
(CR- 678) from
Haddonfiel d-   Eastbound to                Left turn lane
Berlin Rd.      northbound    Center        only           272-15   12-29-15
(C.R. 561) to a
point 340 ft.
to the west
White Horse Rd.
CR-673 (from
Executive Dr.   West to south Center        Left turn only 774-96   11-11-96
to Lucas Ln.
CR-670)
White Horse Rd.
CR-673 (from
Executive Dr.   East to north Center        Left turn only 774-96   11-11-96
to Lucas Ln.
CR-670)
White Horse Rd.
CR-673 (from    East to north Center        Left turn only 775-96   11-25-96
Rt. 561 to
Executive Dr.)
White Horse
Road (from
Executive Drive North to east Center        Left turn only 33-00    11-27-00
to Haddonfield-
Berlin Road (CR
561)).
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-21, 122-46)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IX. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit for both directions of traffic along the streets or parts
thereof described in this schedule is hereby established at the rate of speed
indicated. Regulatory and warning signs shall be erected and maintained to
effect the above-designated speed limits as authorized by the Department of
Transportation.
Street             Speed Limit Location            Ord. No. Date Passed
Burnt Mill Rd.                                     463-1989 8-14-89
                               Between Gibbsboro-
                               Kirkwood Rd. (CR-
   Zone 1       30          684) and Glendale
                               Rd. (also known as
                               White Horse Rd.)
                               Between Glendale
                               Rd. (also known as
   Zone 2       25          White Horse Rd.)    415-22   10-24-22
                               and Somerdale Rd.
                               (CR-678)
                               Between Somerdale
   Zone 3       25          Rd. (CR-678) and
                               Evesham Rd. (CR-
                               544)
Cooper Rd. (CR-                                    589-1992 1-27-92
675)
                               Between New Jersey
   Zone 1       25          SR 73 and Lakeside
                               Ave.
                               Between Lakeside
   Zone 2       35          Ave. and Woodbrook
                               Rd.
   Zone 3       45          Between Woodbrock
                               Rd. and Evesham Rd.
Somerdale Rd./West                                 394-1988 4-25-88
Somerdale Rd. (CR-                                 464-1989 8-14-89
678)
                               Between the
                               Somerdale Township
                               line and
                               Haddonfield-Berlin
                               Rd. (CR-561),
                               except that speeds
                               shall be 25 mph              Driveways and
                               when passing                 parking lot of
                               through the Osage            Kirkwood
                               Elementary School            Field15Driveways
   Zone 1       35          zone, during                 and parking lot of
                               recess, when the             Kirkwood Field672-
                               presence of                  199312-13-9
                               children is clearly          3
                               visible from the
                               roadway, or while
                               children are going
                               to or leaving
                               school, during
                               opening or closing
                               hours
Driveways and                  Driveways and                12-13-9
parking lot of     15          parking lot of      672-1993 3
Maiaroto Field                 Maiaroto Field
                               Between Somerdale
                               Rd. (CR-678) and
Echelon Rd.        30          White Horse Rd.     417-1988 9-26-88
                               (also known as
                               Glendale Rd. or CR-
                               673)
                               Both directions
                               between White Horse
Gibbsboro-Kirkwood 35          Rd. (CR-673) and    488-1990 3-12-90
Rd. (CR-684)                   the Township line
                               with the Borough of
                               Gibbsboro
Gibbsboro-Kresson              Both directions of           11-23-8
Rd.                40          traffic along the   378-1987 7
                               entire length
Centennial                                         459-1989 7-24-89
Boulevard                                          830-97   9-8-97
                               Between Vorhees
   Zone 1       45          Township-Gibbsboro
                               Borough line and
                               Cooper Rd.
                               Between Cooper Rd.
   Zone 2       40          and Park St. (Main
                               St.)
                               Between Park St.
   Zone 3       35          (Main St.) and
                               Evesham Rd. (CR-
                               544)
                               From 400 feet south
Centennial                     of Main Street to
Boulevard          25          the Centennial      183-11   4-11-11
(both directions)              Boulevard/Kresson
                               Road signalized
                               intersection
                               From the Centennial
                               Boulevard/Cooper
                   35          Road signalized
                               intersection to 400
                               feet south of Main
                               Street
                               Between the Vorhees
                               Township-Berlin
Haddonfield-Berlin 40          Township line and   478-1989 11-27-8
Rd. (CR-561)                   the Vorhees                  9
                               Township-Cherry
                               Hill Township line
Haddonfield-                   Between Evesham              11-27-8
Kresson Rd. (CR-   45          Ave. (CR-544) and   478-1989 9
671)                           New Jersey Rt. 73
                               Between White Horse
Laurel Oak Rd.     35          Rd. and             530-1990 12-27-9
                               Haddonfield-Berlin           0
                               Rd.
                               Between Britton Pl.          9-26-88Victor
                               and White Horse Rd.          Blvd.30Entire
Lucas Ln.          30          (also known as      418-1988 length461-19897-24-
                               Glendale Rd. or CR-          89
                               673)
Voorhees Dr.       35          Entire length       529-1990 12-27-9
                                                            0
White Horse Rd.                                    438-1989 2-27-89
(CR-673)
                               Between the
   Zone 1       25          Somerdale Township
                               line and Lucas Ln.
                               Between Lucas Ln.
   Zone 2       40          and Evesham Rd.
                               (CR-544)
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-26, 122-27, 122-48)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE X. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Traffic-control signals shall be installed and operated at the intersection
of those streets described in this schedule.
Intersection                                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Burnt Mill Rd. and Gibbsboro-Kirkwood Rd.                  232-1984 5-14-84
Burnt Mill Rd. (CR-670) and Somerdale Rd./West Somerdale.  160-1981 9-28-81
(CR-678)                                                   464-1989 8-14-89
Burnt Mill Rd. (CR-670) and White Horse Rd. (CR-673)       160-1981 9-28-81
Gibbsboro-Kresson Rd. and Cooper Rd.                       232-1984 5-14-84
Haddonfield-Berlin Rd. (CR-561) and Evesham Ave. (CR-544)  160-1981 9-28-81
Haddonfield-Berlin Rd. (CR-561) and Haddon Ave.            183-1982 10-12-82
Haddonfield-Berlin Rd. (CR-561) and Laurel Oak Rd.         184-1982 10-12-82
Haddonfield-Berlin Rd. (CR-561) and White Horse Rd. (CR-   160-1981 9-28-81
673)
White Horse Rd. (CR-673) and Echelon Rd.                   108-1979 10-9-79
White Horse Rd. (CR-673) and Evesham Rd.                   120-1980 2-11-80
 
('74 Code, § 122-28, 122-49)
SCHEDULE XI. NO PASSING ZONES.
   No passing zones are hereby established and maintained along those streets
or parts of streets described in this schedule as authorized by the State
Department of Transportation in accordance with the sketch dated and numbered
as indicated.
Street               Location                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Cooper Rd.           CR 544 (Evesham Rd.) to   206-1983 10-11-83
                     SR 73
Fairview Ave.        Between Mansion Ave. and  517-1990 9-24-90
                     Burnt Mill Rd.            526-1990 12-27-90
Centennial Boulevard CR 671 to Berlin - Egg    206-1983 10-11-83
                     Harbor Rd.                830-97   9-8-97
                     As described in Sketch
Centennial Boulevard Drawing No. NPZ-3174-A,   786-97   2-10-97
                     dated 8-5-83 and revised  830-97   9-8-97
                     12-27-96
Kirkbridge Rd.       Entire length             182-1982 9-13-82
Lakeside Ave.        As described in Sketch    493-1990 4-23-90
                     Drawing No. NPZ-3396
Laurel Oak Rd.       Between Dumont Dr. and    489-1990 3-12-90
                     Hidden Acres Dr.
                     From Berlin Road (County
                     Route 561) to Hidden
Laurel Oak Rd.       Acres Drive, a distance   828-97   9-8-97
                     of approximately 4,840
                     feet
                     From the channelizing
                     island at the approach to
Laurel Oak Rd.       White Horse Rd. (CR-673)  519-1990 10-9-90
                     to Hidden Acres Drive, a
                     distance of approximately
                     6,560 feet
                                                        11-24-97Vorhees Dr.From
                     From Woodstone Dr. to the          Laurel Oak Rd. to the
                     channelizing island at             channelizing island at
Victor Blvd.         the approach to Cooper    850-97   the approach to
                     Road (CR-675) a distance           Haddonfield-Berlin Rd.
                     of approximately 2,140             (CR-561), a distance of
                     feet                               approximately 2,510
                                                        feet519-199010-9-90
                     From Coventry Dr. (the
                     channelizing island at
William Feather Dr.  the approach to SR-73) to 875-98   6-8-98
                     Tenby Chase Drive, a
                     distance of approximately
                     9,840 feet
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-30, 122-50)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Editor's note:
   Ordinance 206-1983 (as amended by Ord. 830-97) also provided that the entire
length of Cooper Rd. and Centennial Boulevard shall be marked with a double
yellow line indicating a no-passing zone.
   Sketch Drawing No. NPZ-3174-A is on file in the Township Clerk's office.
   Sketch Drawing No. NPZ-3396 is on file in the Township Clerk's office.
SCHEDULE XII. PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS.
   The following areas shall be designated as a mid-block crosswalk, together
with crosswalk warning signs with amber beacons to be constructed in
conformance with the applicable standards and guidelines as set forth in the
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
 
Street                 Location                           Ord. No. Date Passed
                       At 931 Centennial Blvd. (Cooper
                       University Hospital Town Square/
Centennial Blvd. (both Clock Tower Building) and 900
directions)            Centennial Blvd. (south end),      203-12   2-13-12
                       located 890 feet south of the
                       Kresson Rd. (CR 671)/Centennial
                       Blvd. traffic signal.
                       From a point 1015 feet West of the
Centennial Blvd.       centerline of Kresson Rd. (CR 671) 953-99   10-26-99
                       and extending to a point ten feet
                       westerly therefrom.
                       From a point 320 feet north of the
Laurel Oak Rd.         northerly curbline of Vorhees Dr.  953-99   10-26-99
                       and extending to a point ten feet
                       northerly
                       From a point 550 feet east of the
Laurel Rd.             easterly curve line of Britton Pl. 240-84   12-10-84
                       to a point six feet easterly
                       therefrom
('74 Code, §§ 122-10, 122-35) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77; Am. Ord. 237-1984,
passed 11-26-84; Am. Ord. 444-1989, passed 3-27-89; Am. Ord. 457-1989, passed
6-12-89; Am. Ord. 466-89, passed 8-14-89; Am. Ord. 580-1991, passed 12-3-91;
Am. Ord. 731-95, passed 5-22-95)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Commercial vehicles in residential zones restricted, see §
71.01
('74 Code, § 122-52)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE XIII. OVERWEIGHT TRUCKS EXCLUDED.
   Trucks over four tons gross weight are hereby excluded from the streets or
parts of streets described in this schedule, except for the pickup and delivery
of materials on such streets.
Street Location
Street                Location
Ashton Dr.            Entire length
Concord Ln.           From Woodbrook Dr. to Dutchtown Rd.
East Red Oak Dr.      Entire length
Gibbsboro-Marlton Rd. From Evesham Ave. to Haddonfield-Kresson Rd.
Hidden Acres Dr.      Entire length
Holly Oak Dr.         Entire length
Pelham Pl.            From Burnt Mill Rd. to Pelham Rd. South
Ridge Rd.             From Clements Bridge Rd. to Long Ln.
Round Hill Rd.        From Somerdale Rd. to Greenridge Rd.
Woodbrook Dr.         From Cooper Rd. to Concord Ln.
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-10, 122-35) (Ord. 28-1977, passed 3-14-77; Am. Ord. 237-1984,
passed 11-26-84; Ord. 407-88, passed 5-23-88; Am. Ord. 444-1989, passed 3-27-
89; Am. Ord. 457-1989, passed 6-12-89; Am. Ord. 464-89, passed 8-14-89; Am.
Ord. 502-90, passed 7-9-90Am. Ord. 580-1991, passed 12-3-91; Am. Ord. 731-95,
passed 5-22-95; Am. Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99; Am. Ord. 310-17, passed 10-
10-17) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Commercial vehicles in residential zones restricted, see §
71.01
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
   
II.   Parking prohibited during certain hours
   
III.   Stopping or standing prohibited
   
IV.   Handicapped parking areas
   
V.   Fire zones
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   No person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets or parts
thereof described in this schedule.
Street Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                 Side     Location                  Ord. No. Date Passed
Acorn Lane             Both     From Great Oak Rd. to     28-1977  3-14-77
                                Green Ridge Rd.
Alpha Ave.             Both     From Evesham Ave. to      28-1977  3-14-77
                                Lotus Ave.
Burnt Mill Rd.         East     From Evesham Ave. to      28-1977  3-14-77
                                Wayne Ave.
Burnt Mill Rd.         West     From Evesham Ave. to      28-1977  3-14-77
                                Wayne Ave.
Burnt Mill Rd.         Both     From White Horse Rd. to   414-22   10-24-22
                                Somerdale Rd.
                                From Old Egg Harbor Rd.
Centennial Blvd.       Both     to a point 1,500 feet     24-03    2-10-03
                                south of Kresson Rd.
Cooper Road            Both     Frome Evesham Ave. to     889-98   9-11-98
                                Victor Blvd.
                                From Hidden Acres Drive
Deerfield Drive        Both     to a point 140 feet from  23-00    9-11-00
                                the Hidden Acres Drive
                                From Laurel Oak Rd. to a
                                point 475 feet south
                       Westerly From Laurel Oak to a
Dumont Circle                  point 190 feet south and  268-15   8-10-15
                       Easterly then again from a point
                                375 feet south to a point
                                485 feet south
Evesham Ave.           South    From Alpha Ave. to Green  28-1977  3-14-77
                                Ridge Rd.
Fairview Ave.          Both     From Burnt Mill Rd. to    28-1977  3-14-77
                                railroad
Fairview Ave.          Both     From Preston Ave. to      28-1977  3-14-77
                                Railroad Ave.
First Ave.             East     From Lafayette Ave. to    17-02    10-28-02
                                Jefferson Ave.
                                From the intersection of
                                Evesham Ave. to the
Gibbsboro-Marlton Rd.  Both     border of Voorhees        445-1989 3-27-89
                                Township and Borough of
                                Gibbsboro
                                From a point 350 feet
                                north of Deerfield Dr. on
Hidden Acres Dr.                the east side of Hidden
(formerly Laurel Rd.)  Both     Acres Dr. to the end of   479-1989 11-27-89
                                Hidden Acres Dr. where it
                                intersects with Holly Oak
                                Dr.
                                From a point where it
Hidden Acres Dr.                adjoins the entrance to
(formerly Laurel Oak   East     Eastern High School       479-1989 11-27-89
Rd.)                            northerly a distance of
                                50 feet
                                From a point beginning 50
                                feet south of the rear
Hidden Acres Dr.                entrance of Eastern High
(formerly Laurel Oak   East     School to a point 50 feet 479-1989 11-27-89
Rd.)                            north of the rear
                                entrance to Eastern High
                                School
Hidden Acres Dr.       West     From Laurel Oak Rd. to    479-1989 11-27-89
(formerly Laurel Rd.)           Holly Oak Dr.
                                From Laurel Oak Rd. to a
Hidden Acres Dr.       East     point 350 feet north of   916-99   3-22-99
                                Deerfield Dr.
Holly Oak Dr.          Both     From Evesham Ave. to Oak  471-1989 9-25-89
                                Hollow Dr.
Homer Ave.             Both     From Burnt Mill Rd. to    28-1977  3-14-77
                                railroad
                                From a point 100 feet
Kresson Rd.            Both     southeast of Centennial   24-03    2-10-03
                                Blvd. to Gibbsboro Rd.
                                From a point 16 feet
Kresson Rd. at                  north of Covington Dr.
Rabinowitz Field       East     and continuing along      692-94   3-14-94
                                Kresson Rd. south for 606
                                feet
                                From Haddonfield-Berlin
Laurel Oak Rd.         Both     Rd. to the property line
                                of the Eastern Regional
                                High School
                                From a point where it
                                adjoins the entrance to
Laurel Oak Rd.         East     Eastern High School       373-1987 9-14-87
                                northerly a distance of
                                50 feet
                                From a point beginning 50
                                feet south of the rear
                                entrance to Eastern High
Laurel Oak Rd.         East     School to a point 50 feet 373-1987 9-14-87
                                north of the rear
                                entrance to Eastern High
                                School
                                From a point located at
                                the entrance to the
Laurel Oak Rd.         West     Eastern High School       373-1987 9-14-87
                                premises, extending in a
                                northerly direction to
                                the end of Laurel Oak Rd.
Long Lane              Both     From Pelham Rd. North to
                                Green Ridge Rd.
Mansion Ave.           Both     From Fairview Ave. to
                                Homer Ave.
Middlesex Ave.         Both     From Somerdale Rd. to
                                Evesham Ave.
Preston Ave. - 4th St. Both     From Homer Ave. to
                                Somerdale Rd.
Prospect Ave.          Both     From Burnt Mill Rd. to
                                railroad
                                From a point 265 feet
Rabinowitz Field                west of Haddonfield-
driveway               Both     Kresson Rd. to a point    677-1993 12-30-93
                                520 feet west of
                                Haddonfield-Kresson Rd.
Route 561              West     From Evesham Ave. to
                                White Horse Rd.
                                From the intersection of
Terrace Blvd.          Both     Route 73 to the end of    460-1989 7-24-89
                                the first block
Van Buren Rd.          Both     From Echelon Rd. to Lucas 106-1979 8-13-79
                                Ln.
Victor Blvd.           Both     From Route 561 to Cooper  25-03    3-10-03
                                Rd.
                                From Burnet Mill Rd. to
Wayne Ave.             North    its terminus with the     395-1988 4-25-88
                                Board of Education
                                property (Osage School)
Wayside Lane           Both     From Lucas Lane to        68-05    5-9-05
                                Dunhill Drive
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-6, 122-31) (Am. Ord. 963-99, passed 11-22-99)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   No person shall park a vehicle between the hours specified any day, except
Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the streets or parts of streets
described in this schedule. No person shall park a vehicle between the hours
listed upon any of the following described streets or parts of streets:
Street           Side  Hours             Location          Ord. No. Date Passed
Alpha Ave.       Both  10:00 a.m. to 2:  From Homer Ave.   60-1978  4-24-78
                       00 p.m.           to Prospect Ave.
                       7:00 a.m. to 3:00 From Hidden Acres
Deerfield Dr.    Both  p.m. Monday       Dr. to Yorkshire  679-1993 12-13-93
                       through Friday    Dr.
Pelham Pl.       Both  10:00 a.m. to 2:  From Burnt Mill   28-1977  3-14-77
                       00 p.m.           Rd. to Surrey Rd.
                       10:00 a.m. to 2:  From Surrey Rd.
Pelham Rd. North Both  00 p.m.           to Green Ridge    28-1977  3-14-77
                                         Rd.
                       10:00 a.m. to 2:  From Surrey Rd.
Pelham Rd. South Both  00 p.m.           to Green Ridge    28-1977  3-14-77
                                         Rd.
Preston Ave.     Both  10:00 a.m. to 2:  From Evesham Rd.  60-1978  4-24-78
                       00 p.m.           to Fairview Ave.
                                         Between the east
Somerdale Rd.    North 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 and west property 663-93   7-12-93
                       p.m.              lines of Osage
                                         School
Surrey Rd.       Both  10:00 a.m. to 2:  From Long Ln. to  28-1977  3-14-77
                       00 p.m.           Easton Pl.
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-7, 122-32)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOPPING OR STANDING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle during the times specified in this
schedule of any day, except Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the
streets or parts of streets described in the schedule.
Street            Side  Hours   Location          Ord. No. Date Passed
Bibbs Rd.         Both  Anytime Entire street     250-1984 12-27-84
Britton Pl.       Both  Anytime Entire street     250-1984 12-27-84
                                From Laurel Oak
                                Rd. to a point
Driveway to       Both  Anytime 465 feet,         680-1993 12-13-93
Kirkwood Field                  terminating at
                                the parking lot
                                to Kirkwood Field
                                From Somerdale    110-1979 11-12-79
Echelon Rd.       Both  Anytime Rd. to White      464-89   8-14-89
                                Horse Rd.
                                From Berlin Rd.
Evesham Ave.      ­    ­      (County Rt. 561)  571-91   9-10-91
                                to Cooper Rd.
                                A distance of 250
                                feet extending
Evesham Ave.      South Anytime both east and     179-1982 7-26-82
                                west from the
                                intersection of
                                Kresson Rd.
                                From Middlesex
                                Ave. to 250 feet
Evesham Ave.      South Anytime east of the       28-1977  3-14-77
                                easterly curbline
                                of Haddonfield-
                                Berlin Rd.
                                From Brendenwood
Evesham Rd.       Both  Anytime Dr. West to       316-1986 4-14-86
                                Acadia Dr.
                                                           11-27-89Evesham
                                                           Rd.SouthAnytimeA
                                From Cooper Rd.            distance of 350 feet
Evesham Rd.       South Anytime to the Burlington 480-1989 both east and west
                                County Line                from the
                                                           intersection of
                                                           White Horse Rd.119-
                                                           19802-11-80
                                From Victor Blvd.
Giangiulio Field  Both  Anytime to a point 155    676-1993 12-13-93
driveway                        feet southeast to
                                the parking lot
                                A distance of 95
                                feet extending
                                both northeasterl
                                y and
Gibbsboro-Marlton Both  Anytime southwesterl      473-1989 10-23-89
Rd.                             y from the
                                intersection of
                                Haddonfield-
                                Kresson Rd.
                                (Route 671)
Haddonfiel                      From Nicholson
d Rd. (County Rt. East  Anytime Branch to Evesham 446-1989 3-27-89
561)                            Avenue (County
                                Rt. 544)
Haddonfiel                      From Evesham Ave.
d Rd. (County Rt. West  Anytime (County Rt. 544)  446-1989 3-27-89
561)                            to Nicholson
                                Branch
                                From 400 feet
                                south of the
                                southerly
Haddonfiel                      curbline of
d-Berlin Rd.      Both  Anytime Evesham Ave. to
                                400 feet north of
                                the northerly
                                curbline of
                                Evesham Ave.
                                A distance of 95
                                feet extending
                                both northwesterl          10-23-89Kirkbridge
Haddonfiel                      y and                      Rd.BothAnytimeEntire
d-Kresson Rd.     Both  Anytime southwesterl      473-1989 street250-198412-27-
                                y from the                 84
                                intersection of
                                Gibbsboro-Marlton
                                Rd.
                                A distance of 250
                                feet extending
Kresson Rd.       Both  Anytime south from the    179-1982 7-26-82
                                intersection of
                                Evesham Ave.
Lakeside Ave.     Both  Anytime Entire length of  169-1982 2-22-82
                                street
                                Between White
Laurel Oak Rd.    Both  Anytime Horse Rd. and     536-1991 2-25-91
                                Haddonfield-
                                Berlin Rd.
Laurel Rd.        Both  Anytime Entire street     250-1984 12-27-84
Lucas Lane        Both  Anytime Entire street     250-1984 12-27-84
                                From the parking
Pine Ave.         Both  Anytime lot to Kirkwood   680-1993 12-13-93
                                Field to a point
                                340 feet west
                                From Haddonfield
Somerdale Rd.     North Anytime Rd. to Middlesex  464-89   8-14-89
                                Ave.
                                From Haddonfield-
Somerdale Rd.     South Anytime Berlin Rd. to     464-89   8-14-89
                                Middlesex Ave.
Van Buren Rd.     Both  Anytime Entire street     250-1984 12-27-84
                                A distance of 350
                                feet extending
White Horse Rd.   Both  Anytime south from the    119-1980 2-11-80
                                intersection of
                                Evesham Rd.
                                From Evesham Ave.
White Horse Rd.   Both  Anytime to Kirkwood-      179-1982 7-26-82
                                Gibbsboro Rd.
 
('74 Code, §§ 122-8, 122-33)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV. HANDICAPPED PARKING AREAS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §
72.05, the following locations have been required to provide for parking spaces
designated as handicapped parking spaces:
Location                         Ord. No. Date Passed
Alluvium Corporate Center        356-1987 2-23-87
Burger King Restaurant           356-1987 2-23-87
Camden County Library            356-1987 2-23-87
Carriage House Restaurant        356-1987 2-23-87
Cigna                            356-1987 2-23-87
County Club Diner                356-1987 2-23-87
Delites Restaurant               356-1987 2-23-87
E.T. Hamilton School             356-1987 2-23-87
Eagle Plaza                      356-1987 2-23-87
Eastern High School              356-1987 2-23-87
Echelon Mall:
   #1. Sterns
   #2. Strawbridge & Clothier
   #3. J.C. Penney            356-1987 2-23-87
   #4. Main entrance to mall
   #5. Rear entrance to mall
   #6. Cinema
Echelon Medical Center           356-1987 2-23-87
Echelon One and Two office       356-1987 2-23-87
buildings
Echelon Skating Center           470-1989 9-11-89
Echelon Towers                   356-1987 2-23-87
Echelon Village Plaza            356-1987 2-23-87
Fidelity Bank                    356-1987 2-23-87
First Fidelity Bank              356-1987 2-23-87
First Pennsylvania Bank          470-1989 9-11-89
First Peoples National Bank      356-1987 2-23-87
Fuddruckers Restaurant           356-1987 2-23-87
Giangiulio Field parking lot     673-1993 12-13-93Glendale National Bank356-
                                          19872-23-87
Hartford Building                356-1987 2-23-87
Holiday Matrix                   470-1989 9-11-89
International House of Pancakes  356-1987 2-23-87
Kirkwood Field parking lot       673-1993 12-13-93
Kirkwood WaWa Store              356-1987 2-23-87
Lakewood Nursing Home            356-1987 2-23-87
Laurel Oak Corporate Center      356-1987 2-23-87
Maiaroto Field parking lot       673-1993 12-13-93
McDonald's Restaurant            356-1987 2-23-87
Meridian Nursing Home            356-1987 2-23-87
Midlantic Bank                   356-1987 2-23-87
Mrs. Carpet                      356-1987 2-23-87
Municipal hall parking lot       356-1987 2-23-87
National Home Insulators         356-1987 2-23-87
Neighborhood Plaza               356-1987 2-23-87
Rabinowitz Field parking lot     673-1993 12-13-93
Service International            356-1987 2-23-87
Southgate Plaza Center           356-1987 2-23-87
Specialty Medical Center         356-1987 2-23-87
Stafford House                   356-1987 2-23-87
Tatem Brown Medical Center       356-1987 2-23-87
Thriftway Market                 356-1987 2-23-87
United Engineers office building 356-1987 2-23-87
Voorhees Middle School           356-1987 2-23-87
Voorhees Pediatric Facility      356-1987 2-23-87
Voorhees post office             356-1987 2-23-87Voorhees Professional
                                          Center356-19872-23-87
West Jersey Hospital             356-1987 2-23-87
 
('74 Code, § 122-51)
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE V. FIRE ZONES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §
72.06, the fire zones of the following locations shall include the driveways
leading to the buildings and those area and driving lanes adjacent to the
perimeters of the building unless otherwise specified. It shall further include
any area designated as such by the fire official of that fire district:
Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
561 Plaza                           485-1990 2-26-90
A & B Auto Service                  723-94   12-29-94
Access Rd. off of Laurel Oak Rd. to 485-1990 2-26-90
the No. 1000/1010
Building                            723-94   12-29-94
Adams Place office condo's          485-1990 2-26-90
Alluvium Corporate Center           485-1990 2-26-90
Alluvium Shops                      485-1990 2-26-90
Ashland Office Center               485-1990 2-26-90
Avian Plaza                         485-1990 2-26-90
Bowman and Company                  723-94   12-29-94
Burger King Restaurant              485-1990 2-26-90
Calvary Baptist Church and Annex    723-94   12-29-94
Camden County Library               485-1990 2-26-90
Care Inn                            485-1990 2-26-90
Carriage House Restaurant           485-1990 2-26-90
Charles Dumont and Sons             723-94   12-29-94
Cigna                               485-1990 2-26-90
Coliseum                            485-1990 2-26-90
Columbia Savings Bank               723-94   12-29-94
Cooper Corner Shops                 485-1990 2-26-90
Corestates Bank                     723-94   12-29-94
Country Club Diner                  485-1990 2-26-90
Dunkin Donuts                       723-94   12-29-94
E.T. Hamilton School                485-1990 2-26-90
Eagle Plaza                         485-1990 2-26-90Eastern High School485-
                                             19902-26-90
Eastern Senior and Intermediate     723-94   12-29-94
High School
Echelon Mall                        485-1990 2-26-90
Echelon Medical Center              485-1990 2-26-90
Echelon One and Two office          485-1990 2-26-90
buildings
Echelon Skating Center              485-1990 2-26-90
Echelon Towers                      485-1990 2-26-90
Echelon Village Plaza               485-1990 2-26-90
Echo Shoppes Plaza                  485-1990 2-26-90
Essex Plaza Shops                   485-1990 2-26-90
Fidelity Bank                       485-1990 2-26-90
First Fidelity Bank                 485-1990 2-26-90
First Pennsylvania Bank             485-1990 2-26-90
First Peoples National Bank         485-1990 2-26-90
Fuddruckers Restaurant              485-1990 2-26-90
Glendale Executive Campus           485-1990 2-26-90
Glendale National Bank              485-1990 2-26-90
Glendale National Bank Corporate    723-94   12-29-94
Center
Greens of Laurel Oak                723-94   12-29-94
Greentree Academy                   723-94   12-29-94
Ground Round Restaurant             723-94   12-29-94
Hampton Inn                         723-94   12-29-94
Hartford Building                   485-1990 2-26-90
Holiday Matrix                      485-1990 2-26-90
International House of Pancakes     485-1990 2-26-90
Just Tires                          723-94   12-29-94
Kentucky Fried Chicken              723-94   12-29-94Keystone Insurance
                                             Company723-9412-29-94
Kid's Club and Echelon Urban Center 723-94   12-29-94
Kindercare Learning Center          723-94   12-29-94
Kings Supermarket                   485-1990 2-26-90
Kirkwood Plaza                      723-94   12-29-94
Kirkwood Wawa Food Store            723-94   12-29-94
Kirkwood Wawa Store                 485-1990 2-26-90
Kresson II School, administrative   485-1990 2-26-90
building
Kresson III School                  485-1990 2-26-90
Kresson industrial park             485-1990 2-26-90
Lad and Lassie Day School           723-94   12-29-94
Lakewood Nursing Home               485-1990 2-26-90
Lakewood of Voorhees Nursing Home   723-94   12-29-94
LaPetite Academy                    723-94   12-29-94
Laurel Lake Estates                 723-94   12-29-94
Laurel Oak Corporate Center         485-1990 2-26-90
Laurel Oak Corporate Center
Building Nos. 1000/1010, 1020,      723-94   12-29-94
1030/1033 and 1040/1044
Laurelwood Office Building Nos.
1200 and 1202 New Jersey American   723-94   12-29-94
Water Works
Library II Restaurant               485-1990 2-26-90
Main Street                         485-1990 2-26-90
Main Street Convenience Center      485-1990 2-26-90
McDonald's Restaurant               485-1990 2-26-90
Meridian Nursing Home               485-1990 2-26-90
Midlantic Bank                      485-1990 2-26-90
Mrs. Carpet                         485-1990 2-26-90
Municipal Hall                      485-1990 2-26-90
National Home Insulators            485-1990 2-26-90
National West Minster Bank          485-1990 2-26-90
Neighborhood Plaza                  485-1990 2-26-90
Osage School                        485-1990 2-26-90
Plaza Shoppes                       485-1990 2-26-90
Richard's Natural Food Store        723-94   12-29-94
Service International               485-1990 2-26-90
Sherwood Real Estate                723-94   12-29-94
Shop n Bag Market                   485-1990 2-26-90
Signal Hill School                  485-1990 2-26-90
Simones Shell                       723-94   12-29-94
Southgate Plaza Center              485-1990 2-26-90
Specialty Medical Center            485-1990 2-26-90
Stafford House                      485-1990 2-26-90
Staffordshire Professional Center   485-1990 2-26-90
Sturbridge Office Park              485-1990 2-26-90
Tatem Brown Medical Center          485-1990 2-26-90
Test Technology, Inc.               485-1990 2-26-90
The Coop                            723-94   12-29-94
The Olive Garden                    723-94   12-29-94
Travelers Insurance Co./Discovery   723-94   12-29-94
Schools
United Engineers office building    485-1990 2-26-90
United Jersey Bank                  723-94   12-29-94
Voorhees Center                     723-94   12-29-94
Voorhees Corporate Park             485-1990 2-26-90
Voorhees Golf Farm                  723-94   12-29-94
Voorhees Middle School              485-1990 2-26-90
Voorhees Pediatric Facility         485-1990 2-26-90
Voorhees Plaza                      485-1990 2-26-90
Voorhees Post Office                485-1990 2-26-90
Voorhees Professional Center        485-1990 2-26-90
Voorhees Shell                      723-94   12-29-94
Wendy's                             723-94   12-29-94
West Jersey Hospital                485-1990 2-26-90
YMCA                                485-1990 2-26-90
 
('74 Code, § 122-54) (Ord. 485-1990, passed 2-26-90)
CHAPTER 76: TOWING OF VEHICLES
Section
   
76.01   Purpose and scope
   
76.02   Definitions and word usage
   
76.03   Standards for towers, equipment, personnel, storage; miscellaneous
   
76.04   Application for towers; license required
   
76.05   Term; renewal
   
76.06   Independent contractor status; hold harmless
   
76.07   Complaints suspension or revocation of license to tow
   
76.08   Storage and removal of vehicles
   
76.09   Records maintenance
   
76.10   Rate schedule
   
76.11   Dispute resolution
   
Appendix A: Charges and Fees
§ 76.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   Through its adoption, the Township desires to establish criteria for
selecting towing companies to perform municipal towing services. The criteria
will include the equipment required, criminal and driver histories of all
operators, ability to provide 24 hour service, storage of vehicles in a
location convenient to both the Police Department and the vehicle owner,
indemnification and insurance requirements. Further, this chapter adopts a
standard application for potential towing companies, establishes maximum rates
to be charged, and establishes a procedure for awarding, suspending or revoking
contracts for municipal towers. It is the intent of this chapter to provide a
contractual opportunity to those towing companies that meet these standards
while establishing requirements that provide convenience to the Voorhees Police
Department and residents for investigations, storage and retrieval of vehicles.
It is expressly understood that towers will take all reasonable efforts to
become and remain familiar with the rules, regulations and requirements
established in this chapter and in effect during the course of the terms of the
contracts to be authorized herein.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.02 DEFINITIONS AND WORD USAGE.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words
shall have the meanings given, herein:
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. A vehicle located on a public right-of-way not in
operation and with no operator or owner visible and as defined in N.J.S.A.
Title 39.
      BASIC TOW. Private property towing as defined in this section and other
ancillary services that include the following: arriving at the site from which
a motor vehicle is to be towed; 30 minutes waiting time; hooking the motor
vehicle to, or loading a motor vehicle on to a tow truck; transporting a motor
vehicle to a storage facility; unhooking or unloading a motor vehicle from the
tow truck; and situating the vehicle in the space in which it is to be stored.
BASIC TOW also includes issuing documents for the release of a motor vehicle to
its owner or other person authorized to take the motor vehicle; issuing an
itemized bill; three trips to the motor vehicle in storage, which, if
applicable, include making a vehicle available to an insurance appraiser or
adjuster; issuing documents for the release of a motor vehicle to its owner or
other person authorized to take the motor vehicle; and retrieving a motor
vehicle from storage during the hours in which the storage facility is open.
      CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Township of Voorhees or his
or her designee.
      DEBRIS. Shall include but not be limited to, glass, sheet metal,
fiberglass, fluids, tires, vehicle components and other material that may
normally be associated with a motor vehicle accident.
      DECOUPLING. Releasing a motor vehicle to its owner or operator when the
motor vehicle has been, or is about to be, hooked to or lifted by a tow truck,
but prior to the motor vehicle actually having been moved or removed from the
property.
      DISABLED VEHICLE. Any vehicle located on or along any public right-of-
way, not in operation and with no operator visible and/or not legally parked,
shall constitute an inoperable vehicle.
      EXTENDED SITE CLEAN-UP. The removal of debris at the point of impact, as
well as along the path of pre-impact and/or post-impact, where vehicle
disintegration and/or other property damage occurred as a result of the motor
vehicle accident or incident and shall be included by the terms of the
contract.
      FULL CAPACITY TOWER. A tower with the capability and equipment to handle
all tow regardless of class or weight of vehicle.
      GEOGRAPHIC CENTER OF VOORHEES. For the purposes of this chapter, the
geographic center of Voorhees shall be the intersection Cooper Road and
Centennial Boulevard. All measurements taken from that location shall be by
radius and without regard to actual roadways.
      IMPOUNDED VEHICLE. Any suspected stolen, unregistered, uninsured, unsafe
vehicle or any vehicle suspected of being involved in a criminal investigation
on which a "hold" has been placed by the Police Department.
      LIMITED CAPACITY TOWER. A tower with the capability and equipment to tow
only light duty tows as further described throughout this chapter.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      STANDARD SITE CLEAN-UP. The amount of debris removal that should
reasonably be anticipated at the scene of a motor vehicle accident or incident.
The STANDARD SITE CLEAN-UP is usually confined to the point of impact, the
final resting points of all vehicles and the associated debris field. The fee
for this service shall be included in the removal/recovery fee that is
established by the terms of this contract.
      TARPING. The covering of a motor vehicle to prevent weather damage.
      TOW TRUCK. A motor vehicle equipped with a boom or booms, winches,
slings, tilt-beds or similar equipment designed for the towing or recovery of
motor vehicles. Any truck used in service for Voorhees towing must have
adequately operating hydraulic equipment which meets current industry
standards.
      TOWER. A person engaged in the business or offering the services of a
vehicle tower or towing service, whereby disabled motor vehicles are towed or
otherwise removed from the places where they are disabled, impounded or
abandoned by use of a tower or truck so designed for that purpose.
      TOWING. The moving or removing from public or private property or from a
storage facility by a motor vehicle or a consumer's motor vehicle that is
damaged as a result of an accident or otherwise disabled, recovered after being
stolen or is parked illegally or otherwise without authorization, parked during
a time at which such parking is not permitted or otherwise parked without
authorization or the immobilization of or preparation for moving or removing of
such motor vehicle, for which a service charge is made, either directly or
indirectly. Dues or other charges of clubs or associations, which provide
towing services to club or association members, shall not be considered a
service charge for purposes of this definition.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Voorhees, located in Camden County, New Jersey.
      TRANSMISSION DISCONNECT. Manipulating a motor vehicle's transmission, so
that the motor vehicle may be towed.
      VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle of any type or size, including but not limited
to passenger vehicles, trucks, trailers and other heavy vehicles and equipment.
      WAITING TIME. Any time a towing company spends at the site from which a
motor vehicle will be towed, during which the towing company is prevented from
performing any work by another individual, beyond the time included as part of
a basic tow. Waiting time may be charged to the vehicle owner after the 30th
minute the tow operator is on scene.
      WINCHING SERVICE. Any operation in which a vehicle is moved onto a
roadway, from a position off the roadway, or any other operation in which
substantial work is required to prepare a vehicle for normal towing. Winching
includes righting a motor vehicle that is on its side or upside down. Winching
is not the standard pulling of a vehicle onto a tilt-bed carrier or lifting a
vehicle with a conventional tow sling, Winching shall be based upon each half-
hour spent performing winching.
      WINDOW WRAP. Any material used to cover motor vehicle windows that have
been damaged.
   (B)   When not consistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future; words in plural number include the singular number; and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.03 STANDARDS FOR TOWERS, EQUIPMENT, PERSONNEL, STORAGE; MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Standards for tower personnel.
      (1)   The tower shall have a sufficient number of employees available to
comply with the minimum operational requirements of this chapter. The number of
employees on duty, on call and available to respond 24 hours a day, seven days
a week shall not be less than three qualified individuals.
      (2)   No person shall be utilized for towing or perform any services
under this contract unless the Township has obtained a criminal background and
motor vehicles records check and the individual has been granted approval by
the Chief of Police. A driver shall be automatically disqualified where the
individual has been convicted of a crime of the fourth degree or higher. Any
driver convicted of a disorderly person's offense shall be authorized at the
discretion of the Chief of Police taking into account the nature of the crime,
the date of the event and efforts taken by the individual to make societal
amends.
      (3)   The tower shall submit with the application to the Township the
names and addresses, driver's abstracts and criminal history authorization
forms of all proposed drivers and employees who will be rendering service under
this contract on behalf of the tower. This information will be kept current to
the Township by the tower.
      (4)   Background checks will be performed internally by the Voorhees
Police Department as well as through the New Jersey State Police through a
fingerprint system. Applicants will be required to use forms (provided from the
Police Department and specific to each individual listed on the application) to
obtain fingerprint background checks through the then current state vendor. All
costs associated with the fingerprint background check will be borne by the
applicant.
      (5)   All tower/operators shall be over the age of 18 years and must have
a valid, current New Jersey driver's license with no restrictions or
conditional endorsements except condition requiring glasses. All commercial
driver licenses requirements must be met to operate commercial driver's license
equipment. The applicant will provide a certified motor vehicle abstract for
each driver listed on its application. The abstract must have been prepared by
the New Jersey Division of Motor Vehicles within 45 days of submission to the
Police Department. All costs associated with obtaining motor vehicle abstracts
will be borne by the applicant.
      (6)   Upon completion of an annual criminal and motor vehicle background
check, each passing employee shall be issued a photo identification badge from
the Chief of Police. Said badge must be worn at all times by the tower when
performing a tow operation for Voorhees Township. The tower shall pay $25 for
each tag issued or replaced. Upon the employee's separation with the tower, the
tower shall return the tag of the former employer to the Police Department. In
the event the employee responds to a dispatch without wearing the Township
issued tag, the tower may be turned away at no cost to the Township and the
tower will be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the tower to require that their
employees/tow operators are competent, efficient, courteous and knowledgeable
in the legal and technical requirements of emergency towing and/or recovery of
vehicles. A program of continuing in-service training for driver operators is
mandatory, such as a national certification (TRAA level I, II or III). Towers
shall be active members in good standing of the Garden State Towing Association
and/or the Wrecker Towing Association and provide proof of same at the time of
submission of the application.
      (8)   It shall be the responsibility of the tower to insure that all tow
truck operators who respond to incident scenes receive training in the
recognition of and the response to hazardous materials prior to
towing in Voorhees Township. Employees shall be outfitted in a standard uniform
and be equipped with DOT and ANSI approved Level III traffic safety vests to be
worn at all times while actively engaged in vehicle removal.
      (9)   The tower shall be solely responsible for all requested tows and
shall not sub-contract or sub-lease tows or personnel. The Chief of Police
shall have the authority to permit such actions based upon a set of conditions
that create an emergent circumstance.
   (B)   Standards for equipment.
      (1)   The Township shall establish two lists of towers: the primary list
shall include both limited and full capacity towers. The secondary list shall
be for full capacity towers only. The tower shall have sufficient equipment to
tow any size vehicle utilizing the highways, streets and roads in the Township
of Voorhees for the type of tow contract requested in the application. The
minimum requirements for full capacity towers are one heavy-duty large-capacity
wrecker minimum of 25-ton capacity, one medium-duty wrecker minimum of ten-ton
capacity and two light-duty flatbeds, minimum four-ton capacity. The limited
capacity towers shall meet these vehicle requirements minus the heavy-duty
large-capacity wrecker and the medium-duty wrecker. All vehicles must be in
compliance with all safety standards and equipment required as listed in
N.J.S.A. 39:3-43 et seq. including emergency lights, equipment, reflectors/
flares and permits. Tower's name shall be prominently displayed in such a
manner to conform to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-46. The specifications are
as follows:
         (a)   Heavy duty.
            1.   Minimum of 25 ton capacity.
            2.   Air brakes.
            3.   Minimum 1,100 by 22.5 tires with dual rear wheels.
            4.   Air fittings for releasing air-pressure-lock brakes on dump
trucks and tractor trailers.
            5.   Under reach capabilities.
            6.   All required ICC safety equipment must be carried.
            7.   Must meet or exceed all federal and New Jersey Division of
Motor Vehicle requirements.
            8.   Portable safety lighting to be installed on rear of towed
vehicle.
            9.   Off-side truck winching.
         (b)   Medium duty.
            1.   Minimum ten-ton capacity.
            2.   Minimum 1,100 by 22.5 tires with dual rear wheels.
            3.   Chassis requirements should be ten tons gross weight.
            4.   Steering wheel lock for towing vehicles from the rear.
            5.   Wheel lift under reach capacity.
            6.   All ICC safety equipment must be carried.
            7.   Must meet or exceed all federal and New Jersey Division of
Motor Vehicle requirements.
         (c)   Light duty.
            1.   Minimum of four-ton capacity.
            2.   Chassis requirements for a flatbed should be 19,500 pounds
gross vehicle weight and dual rear tires.
            3.   At least two vehicles to be flatbeds.
            4.   Chassis requirements for a wrecker should be at least 10,000
pounds gross vehicle weight and dual rear wheels.
            5.   All ICC safety equipment must be carried.
            6.   Must meet or exceed all federal and New Jersey Division of
Motor Vehicles requirements.
            7.   Wheel lift capacities for wrecker and flatbed. No tow bars
allowed.
      (2)   At the time of the submission of the application, the tower shall
submit proof satisfactory to the Township and the Police Department of
ownership of the required vehicles. Adequate proof shall be proof of ownership
by recorded title of the required number of vehicles necessary to meet the
chapter requirements or executed lease/rental agreement for the equipment
required extending six months beyond the length of the term. Failure to submit
the aforementioned satisfactory proof shall result in the disqualification of
the tower.
      (3)   Each tow vehicle will be annually inspected by the Chief of Police
for compliance of the within standards and all other appropriate motor vehicle
statutes. Upon passage of inspection, the Chief of Police shall affix a decal
to the vehicle permitting its use for Voorhees towing purposes. Any vehicle
which is dispatched to a Township incident without the aforementioned
inspection sticker may be rejected by the Officer on the scene and turned away
at no cost to the Township. Said event shall constitute a violation of the
chapter and subject the tower to the complaints, suspension or revocation of
license to tow procedures outlined in §
76.07.
   (C)   Standards for storage yard.
      (1)   The vehicles must be towed to a location containing a minimum
storage area sufficient for the storage of 40 vehicles. The applicant shall
submit as part of the application process proof that he or she owns or can
lease the aforementioned minimum storage area. For the convenience of the
public and for the Voorhees Police Department for investigative purposes, the
storage area must be located within the Township. If the tower has an option to
lease the required storage area, he or she shall submit with his or her
application a copy of the option agreement, containing the legal description
together with a copy of the survey of the land. The lease shall extend to at
least one year after the termination of the contract. The surveys as required
herein shall have set forth thereon a certification by the surveyor to the
Township as to the square footage within the storage area as surveyed.
      (2)   The storage area shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   The land used for the storage of vehicles shall meet zoning
requirements and/or have achieved zoning approvals for such use and must meet
all applicable municipal codes.
         (b)   No towed vehicle may be parked upon the public street and shall
be stored by the tower within the storage area as hereinafter defined.
         (c)   The storage area shall be manned by an employee authorized to
release vehicles Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., holidays
excluded.
         (d)   During unmanned hours, the storage area must be accessible by
the police with 20 minutes notice.
         (e)   The storage area shall accept all types of cars and trucks and
be able to hold at least 40 standard vehicles.
         (f)   The entire land area shall be enclosed by a fence of sturdy
construction of at least six feet in height and shall be secured with adequate
lighting from dusk to dawn in accord with Township zoning regulations.
         (g)   All the land proposed to be utilized by the tower for storage
shall be level and clear of all debris and must be clearly marked (1) to
prevent unauthorized access; (2) with the name and number of the towing company
and hours of operation. Said signage shall conform to zoning standards.
         (h)   The tow office/reception area shall be an enclosed part or
portion of a regular structure which offers protection from the elements and is
climate controlled for the customers and employees alike. Temporary trailers or
makeshift enclosures are not permitted unless the building possesses all
required zoning and construction approvals and accessibility requirements.
         (i)   The tower shall be responsible for each vehicle and its content
in the tower's possession until final disposition and removal as permitted by
the Township. All vehicles, regardless of condition, shall be stored singly and
so arranged to permit inspection and subsequent removal. Adequate walkway
inspection space between vehicles shall be provided at all times.
   (D)   Legal requirements.
      (1)   Response times. The tower shall be available 24 hours a day, seven
days a week for the use of the Township at the direction of the authorized
representatives of the Police Department as per the rotation requirements
hereinafter set forth. During the rotation the tower has exclusive rights to
tow vehicles on behalf of the Township; the tower shall be called or dispatched
first by the Police Department. If the tower is an limited capacity tower, as
defined herein, the Township reserves the right to utilize a tower from the
full capacity list if conditions warrant. In the event that the tower is
unavailable with respect to a particular incident, then the next tower on the
primary rotation shall be called or dispatched to the scene. The rotation lists
shall be as a result of the receipt and review of the approval of the
aforementioned applications and the award of a contract with respect thereto.
In the event that none of the towers set forth on the primary rotation list are
available or are able to provide the appropriate services as requested by the
Township, or if an emergency exists, the Township may request such services
from any other available source. In such cases, the tower will tow the vehicle
to a location identified by the Police Department and will be eligible for
towing charges only. During adverse weather conditions, heavy traffic
conditions or emergency conditions, the towers on the rotation list shall give
priority to requests from the Township over any other request which may be
received by the tower.
      (2)   When called, the tower must respond to the scene within 20 minutes
of the call from police dispatch.
      (3)   Stand-by service periods. In addition to the service requirements
of this chapter, the tower shall be required to furnish extra towing equipment
and service during storm periods, periods of snow emergencies, traffic
emergencies, disasters, any acts of God and for any other reason when so
designated by the Township Administrator and/or Chief of Police, or their duly
authorized representatives. During such periods which are herein referred to as
standby service periods, the tower shall be required to furnish adequate
equipment and service to be held ready to remove all types of vehicles. Standby
service will begin when the Chief of Police calls the tower initially and will
end when he or she terminates the standby status by calling the tower. The
Township reserves the right to designate temporary areas owned or leased by the
Township for the storage of vehicles in said area at the direction of the Chief
of Police.
      (4)   Debris removal.
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the tower to provide for the
clean-up and removal of debris from the scene of any incident that requires
towing and/or recovery service, with the understanding that the debris to be
removed must be a direct result of the incident that necessitated the services
of the tower.
         (b)   The tower shall be responsible for the clean-up of all fluids
contained on the paved roadway, which are discharged from a damaged vehicle,
which does not meet the requirements of a Hazardous Materials incident. Such
clean-up shall include gasoline, diesel fuel, oil, antifreeze, hydraulic brake
fluid, transmission fluid and other such fluids which can reasonably be
anticipated to be discharged from a damaged vehicle. Fluid clean-up and removal
shall be in accordance with the applicable state and federal regulations for
clean-up and remediation. The tower shall carry the appropriate equipment for
the clean-up. It shall be incumbent on all towers and personnel to be familiar
with state and federal requirements regarding hazardous material cleanup.
         (c)   Clean-up shall be completed prior to the departure of any tow
vehicle.
      (5)   Indemnity and insurance.
         (a)   The tower shall indemnify and hold harmless the Township of
Voorhees from any and all claims against the Township arising out of the
operation of any towing services, garage services, storage services, or repair
services, under this chapter.
         (b)   Insurance requirements.
            1.   Workers compensation and employers liability insurance. A
tower shall procure and shall maintain worker's compensation insurance in
accordance with statutory requirements for all of his/her employees to be
engaged in work on the project.
            2.   General liability insurance. The tower shall procure and
maintain, during the entire time it is performing services under chapter of the
Township Code, general liability insurance of not less than $1,000,000 bodily
injury and property damage in any one occurrence.
            3.   Automobile liability insurance. The tower shall procure
automobile liability insurance for claims arising from owned, hired, and non-
owned vehicles with limits of not less than $10,000,000 any one person;
$2,000,000 any one accident for bodily injury and/or property damage; which
insurance shall be maintained during the life of this contract.
            4.   Garage keepers liability insurance. The tower shall secure and
maintain during the life of this contract garage keepers liability insurance in
an amount not less than $60,000 per location.
            5.   Public liability and property damage, contingent liability
insurance. The tower shall also carry public liability and property damage,
contingent liability insurance to indemnify the Township of Voorhees and the
public against any loss due to injuries, accidents or damages of any character
whatsoever, where any such damage is the result of any act or omission of the
tower, his or her agents or employees in or due to the execution of the work
called for under the contract and this chapter. Such policies shall contain the
provision that 30 days' notice of change or cancellation be given to the
Township by the insurance company. Public liability insurance limits shall be
at least $500,000 per accident and be specifically endorsed to provide
collision insurance for vehicles in tow. In addition, the tower shall have
coverage for contractual liability and also name the Township as an additional
insured. All insurance required hereunder shall remain in full force and effect
for the period of the contract. Insurance policy shall cover on an occurrence
basis.
            6.   Owner of record or lessee. The tower shall be the owner of
record of the property used for storage or be listed as the lessee of said
property, Tower shall maintain $3,000,000 general liability insurance for the
leased property where the vehicles are to be stored and the insurance shall be
maintained for one year past the conclusion of the contract period.
            7.   Certificate of insurance. Certificates of insurance showing
that both the tower and the Township of Voorhees are named as additional
insured, in conformance with the above, shall be furnished to the Township
Administrator, subject to approval of the Township Solicitor, and filed with
the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.04 APPLICATION FOR TOWERS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. The governing body of the Township, at the beginning of the
assigned period, shall appoint a maximum of five towers to be called by the
Police Department on a biweekly basis (first and 15th of each month). In the
event more than five compliant towers apply, priority will be given to full
capacity towers over limited capacity towers. Each two-week period shall be
assigned to the next tower on the primary rotation list. A nonrefundable $500
application fee shall be paid to the Township by each applicant. Each tower
receiving appointment shall be granted exclusive towing rights during their
rotation period. In the event that the tower assigned to a particular rotation
is unavailable, then the next tower on the primary rotation shall be called
during said rotation, but only for that particular incident. In the event that
the tower assigned cannot handle a heavy duty tow, the next eligible heavy duty
tow operator on the secondary tow list shall be called for that particular
incident.
   (B)   Application process. Any person interested in being placed on the
aforementioned rotation list, by way of a contract award, shall apply by
providing a cover letter on company letterhead with the materials outlined in
division (D) of this section. A towing service that has met all the
specifications and requirements of this chapter, and has applied to the
Township, shall be placed on the towing list; however, to minimize the
inconvenience to the Police Department in investigating matters, the maximum
number of towing services on the Township towing list shall be five such
services.
   (C)   The initial application under the chapter shall be due              
with an expected contract period of              to             . Thereafter,
applications shall be due on or before              of the last year of the
contract for a three year contract commencing the following             .
   (D)   The application shall contain at a minimum the information specified
herein:
      (1)   Proof that the applicant's business is within five miles of the
geographic center of the Township.
      (2)   Request must indicate which category (full or limited capacity) the
tower is seeking.
      (3)   List of required equipment and proof of ownership.
      (4)   Experience of applicant in regards to municipal towing, providing
at least three references.
      (5)   Available personnel (employees) including a copy of each driver/
operator's motor vehicle abstract and authorization to perform criminal
background checks.
      (6)   Proper business and trade licenses and license of vehicles.
      (7)   Proper proof that the tow trucks have the capability of
communicating with dispatch 24 hours a day, seven days a week, either by
cellular telephones, beepers, two-way radios, or other comparable equipment.
      (8)   Proof that the storage location for all towed vehicles is located
within the Township as noted on the Township's Tax Maps and meets the standards
established by this chapter.
      (9)   Insurance and proofs of coverage as required by this chapter.
      (10)   List of stockholders (form available from Township Clerk).
      (11)   Non-collusion affidavit (form available from Township Clerk).
      (12)   Affirmative action affidavit (form available from Township Clerk).
      (13)   Hold-harmless agreement (form available from Township Clerk).
      (14)   Certification that the applicant is able to provide towing
services anywhere in the Township in accordance with the response times within
this chapter.
      (15)   Certification that the applicant will be available for service,
and police inspection of vehicles on business premises 24 hours a day, seven
days a week and will abide by the fees set forth in this chapter.
      (16)   Certification that the applicant shall consent to the appointment
of the Township Administrator as the applicant's true and lawful attorney for
the purpose of acknowledging service out of any court of competent jurisdiction
to be served against the applicant.
      (17)   New Jersey Business Registration Certificate.
   (E)   Review of application. The Chief of Police shall conduct a background
check of the applicant and any employees to be utilized in the towing and
storage operation. The background check is to determine if either the applicant
or its employees have been convicted of a criminal offense within the last ten
years or have had their drivers' licenses suspended or revoked within the past
year. Conviction of a criminal offense or suspension of a driver's license as
noted shall be an incurable cause for the disqualification from being awarded
the contract. The Chief of Police shall conduct an inspection of the employees,
vehicles, equipment and storage area proposed to be utilized by the applicant
to verify the accuracy of the information contained in the application and to
determine compliance with the applicable laws, regulations and standards of
performance required by this chapter. The Township may, at an additional cost
to the applicant, obtain a Better Business Service Bureau Report and any other
reports that the Chief of Police may deem necessary. After a thorough
investigation, the Chief of Police shall recommend to the Township
Administrator whether an applicant has met the requirements of this chapter and
be awarded the appropriate contract to provide towing services to the Township
of Voorhees in accordance with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Township Committee decision. The Chief of Police shall conduct the
aforementioned review and investigation and render a report to the Township
Administrator recommending either approval or denial of the application. The
Township Committee shall take action with regard to the application and award
or not award a contract. The Township shall issue a license to any qualifying
and approved tower and said tower shall become part of the towing rotation up
to a maximum of five towers giving preference to qualifying full capacity
towers.
   (G)   Rejection of application. If any applicant is rejected based upon the
background investigation, equipment or storage requirements, said applicant
shall have the opportunity to appeal the recommendation of the Township
Administrator to the Township Council according to the procedures established
at §
76.07.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.05 TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The term of each contract shall run from the time of the award until
                   . Thereafter, the term shall be three years commencing on
January 1 of the first year and terminating on December 31 of the third year.
   (B)   Each tower shall be required to file a new application, fee and
related materials on or before November 15 of the third year term for
consideration for the next three year term.
   (C)   At the tower's expense, there shall be an annual inspection and
background check of all vehicles and personnel.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.06 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR STATUS; HOLD HARMLESS.
   (A)   By submission of the fee and application, the tower agrees that all
personnel and equipment used under the terms of the contract shall be and
remain property of the tower, and in no event shall the property or any
employee of the tower be represented or considered belonging to or employed by
the Township of Voorhees. The tower shall be operating under a contract and in
no way or sense is an agent or employee of the Township of Voorhees.
   (B)   Hold-harmless agreement; liability.
      (1)   The tower, by submission of the fee and application, agrees to
assume the defense of and indemnify and hold harmless the Township, its elected
officials, boards, Councils, officers, employees and agents from all suits,
actions, damages or claims to which the Township may be subjected, of any kind
or nature whatsoever, resulting from, caused by, arising out of or as a
consequence of the provisions of providing the services required by this
chapter. Prior to providing the towing services, the tower shall execute the
appropriate contract containing the required hold harmless clause.
      (2)   The owner of the garage or the parking or storage location shall
also agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Township and its officers,
employees and agents from any and all suits, actions, damages or claims arising
out of the performance of the duties specified in this chapter.
      (3)   The Township of Voorhees shall not be liable for any service
whatsoever which may be rendered to motor vehicles, and the tower shall only
seek payment from the driver and/or owner of such vehicles for compensation.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.07 COMPLAINTS, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE TO TOW.
   (A)   Complaints of any kind, relative to service, overcharging, theft of
parts, damage to towed or stored vehicles, discourteous treatment and the like
shall be referred to the Chief of Police for investigation and recommendation
to the Township Administrator, if necessary. The Township Administrator shall
notify the tower in writing.
   (B)   If the violation is not corrected within 48 hours of the receipt of
the written notice, the Township Administrator shall suspend or revoke the
contract and immediately remove the tower from the rotation.
   (C)   Adequate grounds for a revocation of the contract shall include, but
are not limited to, a violation of the terms of this chapter, fraudulent or
inaccurate application information, unsatisfactory service or the violation of
the New Jersey Department of Insurance Rules and Regulations or any statute or
regulation of this chapter.
   (D)   The tower has the right to appeal to the Township Committee within ten
days of the receipt of the Township Administrator's written decision and shall
receive a hearing within 30 days of the receipt of the notice.
   (E)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Township Committee shall determine
whether to affirm, reverse or modify the Township Administrator's decision. If
the tower's license is revoked, the tower shall not be eligible to reapply for
three additional years from the date of revocation at the next contract term.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, upon mutual written
agreement, the parties may terminate the contract upon 14 days' notice.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.08 STORAGE AND REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Removal. Vehicles shall be removed as follows:
      (1)   Abandoned vehicles.
         (a)   Abandoned vehicles as defined in N.J.S.A. Title 39 shall be
removed under the direction and supervision of the Police Department on a 24-
hour-a-day basis. All calls with respect thereto shall be answered within a 20
minute response time from the time of notification under normal conditions
seven days a week, anywhere within the Township limits, unless the Police
Department determines it is not a threat to vehicle, traffic or persons, and
could be removed during business hours. Abandoned vehicles shall be towed
without charge to the Township to the aforementioned required storage area and
stored thereon for no longer than 90 days without any charges or liens accruing
against the Township. Abandoned vehicles remaining after 90 days may be removed
from the secured area, provided that a junk title has been applied for pursuant
to the provisions of N.J.S.A. Title 39, said application to be by the tower.
         (b)   The tower may be penalized $150 per day for each abandoned
vehicle not removed and towed within a reasonable amount of time after
notification by the Police Department and may be grounds for termination of the
contract.
         (c)   The requirement to tow abandoned motor vehicles shall only apply
to public rights-of-way, easements, avenues and places, including public parks
and playgrounds, and all quasi-public areas. The owner of private property
shall be responsible for the removal of any unattended or disabled vehicles in
accordance with the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-56.6 and shall employ a tower
of their choice.
         (d)   The Township retains the right to require that the abandoned
vehicle shall be towed to municipal property and to retain any moneys realized
from the sale of such vehicles. The Township shall pay the towers reasonable
fees as set forth in this chapter for towing a vehicle sold in this manner from
the proceeds of the sale. Abandoned vehicles, not claimed by the owner or lien
holder, may be sold at public auction pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A.
39:10A-1 through 7. Prior to the sale at auction of any abandoned vehicle, the
Township will obtain the appropriate junk title or certificate of ownership for
said abandoned vehicle from the Division of Motor Vehicles, Otherwise, it shall
be the responsibility of the tower to provide for the disposition of abandoned
vehicles and the issuance of junk motor vehicle titles in accordance with the
provisions of N.J.S.A. Title 39. The Township Police Department shall assist in
providing any information needed for the proper disposition of such vehicles.
         (e)   Charges for removing abandoned vehicles at the direction of the
Voorhees Police Department shall be billed to the registered owner of the
vehicle. In the event that the registered owner of the vehicle cannot be
determined or located, the charges for removing the vehicle shall be applied to
the price of the vehicle when auctioned. In accordance with the provisions of
N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.49 et seq., storage fees that are to be applied by the
Township for abandoned vehicles to be auctioned shall not exceed $3 per day per
vehicle for the first 30 days of storage, and $2 per day for the 31st clay of
storage and any additional day thereafter with a limit of $400 per vehicle,
regardless of the duration of the storage. The Township, pursuant to N.J.S.A.
40:48-2.49-2.50 shall not be charged in excess of $400 for the storage of any
towed vehicle.
         (f)   In those situations involving the confiscation of automobiles,
fatal accidents or any other situation where the Township initial legal action
or evidentiary evaluation is necessary requiring the storage of a vehicle for a
prolonged period of time, the storage fees that are to be paid by the Township
shall not exceed $3 per day per vehicle for the first 30 days of storage, and
$2 per day for the 31st day of storage and any additional day thereafter with a
limit of $400 per vehicle, regardless of the duration of the storage. The
Township, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.49-2.50 shall not be charged in excess
of $400 for the storage of any towed vehicles.
      (2)   Vehicles not abandoned.
         (a)   All vehicles involved in accidents, disablements, stolen
vehicles, vehicles involved in suspected crimes and the like shall be towed and
stored under the direction and supervision of the Police Department 24 hours a
day, seven days a week. All calls with respect thereto shall be answered within
a 20 minute response time from the time of notification under normal conditions
seven days a week, anywhere within the Township limits. Vehicles shall be
available for release between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday
through Fridays, excluding legal holidays. Legal holiday hours are optional at
the towers discretion. As such, if the tower decides not to open on a legal
holiday any storage charge shall be assessed if the vehicle is picked up by
noon on the following normal business day. Any vehicle towed and stored after
4:00 p.m. and claimed prior to 11:00 a.m. the next day shall only be charged
for one day storage.
         (b)   The tower shall arrive at the scene of the accident within 20
minutes under normal conditions after police notification. Repeated late
arrivals at the scene of accidents may result in the termination of the
contract as otherwise provided in this chapter.
         (c)   In the event that the tower has been summoned by the Township
for purposes of towing a vehicle and the owner of the vehicle has also summoned
his or her own tower and said tower arrives on the scene prior to the removal
of the vehicle by the Township tower, then the owner is entitled to remove his
or her own vehicle at no cost or expense to the owner or to the Township. There
shall be no charge to the Township for the tower appearing at the scene under
said conditions. The Township will make every effort to minimize the
inconvenience above to the tower.
   (B)   Storage. The tower shall store the abandoned and non-abandoned
vehicles in the storage area as required in this chapter. The vehicles shall be
stored until claimed by the owner or until auctioned by the Township in
compliance with state law or as otherwise to be disposed of pursuant to state
law. Vehicles to be removed shall be towed to the tower's storage area or to
Township property at the discretion of the Township Police. If the Township
establishes its own storage facility, all tows will be directed to that
location until the lot reaches capacity. Towers will be eligible for tow costs
only.
   (C)   Township vehicles. During the towers rotation period the tower will
tow any Township-owned vehicle to any location within the Township's borders
without cost to the Township. The tower may invoice for mileage cost if
required to tow outside Township borders. Tows beginning in Voorhees Township,
going through an adjacent municipality and returning to Voorhees Township do
not qualify for mileage reimbursement.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.09 RECORDS MAINTENANCE.
   Records, inspection; release of vehicle. The tower shall maintain records of
all vehicles towed, stored and released by him or her pursuant to this chapter.
Records shall be kept for a seven-year period. The tower shall maintain a
record provided by the police of all property found anywhere in a towed
vehicle, including trunk and glove compartment, if opened or key available, and
the tower shall be responsible to safeguard and release the contents to the
owner.
   (A)   Only the Chief of Police shall have access to any part of the storage
area at any time of the day or night for inspection purposes, including both
indoor and outdoor areas. Authorized representatives of the Police Department
or the Township Administrator or their designees shall have access to any of
the records required to be kept by the tower.
   (B)   The tower shall not release vehicles towed under this contract without
the claimant's first obtaining a release from the Police Department. In
addition, the tower shall notify the Chief of Police of the release of the
vehicle towed pursuant to this chapter within 48 hours. Return of the
appropriate Voorhees Township Police tow form is considered adequate
notification.
   (C)   The service, equipment and personnel are subject to periodic
inspections and approval by the Township. The Township reserves the right to
have a qualified person or agency make such inspections.
   (D)   The tower shall submit monthly reports, on or before the tenth of the
month, to the Voorhees Township Police Department of all vehicles towed the
previous month, as well as vehicles which are unclaimed from previous months.
The report shall identify each vehicle by make, model, year, license plate,
vin/serial number and police incident/case number. In addition, the odometer
reading is needed on ah vehicles left on the lot over 30 days. Motor Vehicle
Commission requires this information when requesting a title for auction. The
contractor further agrees to furnish the Township with such records, reports
and information of services rendered as the Township may reasonably request.
Failure to provide the required reports by the tenth day of the month will
result in the contractor being suspended from the tow list until the report is
received according to the procedures in §
76.07.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.10 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   At the time of tow, each tower licensed shall be responsible for
providing a three inch by five inch pre-printed card identifying the towing
company's name, address, storage location, hours of operation for pickup, phone
number and rates for towing and storage according to the terms of this chapter.
Said card shall be presented and explained to the owner or occupant of the
vehicle on scene or, in the alternative when the owner or occupant is absent or
not physically or mentally capable of receiving the card, provided to the
officer requesting tow for inclusion in the police report.
      (2)   Towing and storing charges and fees shall be in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.50 as well as the provisions of this chapter. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the charge and fee for towing and storage of
vehicles within the Township of Voorhees shall be in accordance with the
provisions of the rules and regulations of the New Jersey Department of
Insurance. The Township shall not be responsible for the collection or payment
of any charges for the towing or storage of vehicles. The charges and fees and
rates applicable to services performed pursuant to this chapter shall be posted
in a conspicuous place visible to the public at the tower's storage area and
shall be posted on each and every vehicle. The tower shall prepare a bill for
charges pertaining to each vehicle and present the same to the claimant of a
vehicle. The bill shall be itemized in detail as to the actual services
rendered and shall contain a statement that the claimant may complain with
respect thereto to the Township. The Township will not be responsible for
charges due and owing from a claimant of a vehicle. The Township shall not be
responsible for the collection or payment of any charges for the towing or
storage of vehicles. Vehicles impounded as a result of police investigations
involving stolen vehicles or fatal/serious/suspicious accidents will not result
in storage charges, however the Township reserves the right to store such
vehicles at a location of its choosing. The police may release vehicle from
investigation and make it available for pickup. The tower shall be able to
charge storage from this point forward. Said location will include inside
storage, lock down measures, full access accountability and 24, seven access by
the Police Department.
      (3)   In the event the Township conducts an auction of unclaimed
abandoned vehicles pursuant to N.J.S.A. Title 39, the tower's bill for towing
and storage shall be an expense of possession and sale and shall be paid from
the proceeds of such auction. Each vehicle auctioned shall be a separate item
for purposes of this division. The title fee for which the Township must pay
the State of New Jersey for title certificates shall be paid by the purchaser
at the auction even if the tower is the purchaser and shall be in addition to
the bid price of each vehicle. In the event the Township determines to utilize
the provisions of N.J.S.A. Title 39 with respect to unclaimed vehicles, the
tower shall receive no compensation for its services.
      (4)   The fee for towing a vehicle shall include the service rendered
from the scene where the vehicle is located to the storage area and from the
storage area to the curb-line of the property on which is located the storage
area. The charge for towing includes any incidental and related costs such as
connecting and reconnecting a transmission, drive line or axle. There shall be
no additional charges for any other services, including but not limited to
waiting time, cleanup costs and additional labor when the towing services as
defined herein are provided, except as otherwise provided herein. The tower may
charge a fee for a vehicle lockout service, i.e., when a tower responds and
opens a locked vehicle when the owner/operator has locked the keys in the
vehicle or is otherwise unable to open the vehicle.
   (B)   Charges and fees. The charges, fees and rates for vehicles to be towed
and stored shall be categorized in the following manner. There will be no
mileage charge for vehicles towed.
      (1)   Refer to Schedule A of Appendix A for towing service charges - flat
fee.
      (2)   Refer to Schedule B of Appendix A for winching service charges -
per each half-hour of winching.
      (3)   Refer to Schedule C of Appendix A for administrative, storage and
general charges.
      (4)   Refer to Schedule D of Appendix A for miscellaneous charges.
   (C)   Specialized equipment. In cases where the tower must hire laborers or
rent or utilize specialized equipment not specified in this chapter, all
reasonable charges therefore shall be paid by the owner of the vehicle, after
the owner of the vehicle or his or her agent has given his or her prior written
consent thereto. The consent requirement may be waived when the Chief of Police
deems the vehicle to be a hazard to health or safety, whereupon the vehicle
will be removed by the direction of the Chief of Police, with the owner then
being responsible for all personnel, equipment and labor costs. The necessity
for specialized equipment shall be determined by the Chief of Police.
   (D)   Unloading of goods. In the event that it is necessary to unload a
vehicle which has been used for transportation of goods prior to or after
towing, an agreement shall be reached between the tower and the owner of the
vehicle or the owner's agent or representative as to the charge for said
service. No written agreement is necessary in an emergency situation, and the
Chief of Police shall determine when an emergency exists.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 76.11 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   Disputes and adjustments.
   (A)   Any disputes over the interpretation of the contract, including the
reasonableness of any fees assessed, shall be settled amicably, if possible,
through negotiations between the tower, the Police Department and the Township
Administrator.
   (B)   In cases where the Township has been at fault in wrongfully directing
that a vehicle be towed, the tower may petition the Township Committee for
reimbursement of costs incurred in the towing and storage of the vehicle.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
2015 S-20
APPENDIX A: CHARGES AND FEES
Schedule A: Towing Service Charge - Flat Fee
Class Category GVW (lbs) 2014 2015
Class   Category    GVW (lbs)       2014 2015
Class 1 Light Duty  6,000 or less   $175 $175
Class 2 Light Duty  6,001 - 10,000  $175 $175
Class 3 Medium Duty 10,001 -14,000  $300 $300
Class 4 Medium Duty 14,001 - 16,000 $300 $300
Class 5 Medium Duty 16,001 - 19,500 $350 $350
Class 6 Medium Duty 19,501 - 26,000 $400 $400
Class 7 Heavy Duty  26,001 - 33,000 $400 $400
Class 8 Heavy Duty  33,001 and over $500 $500
 
Schedule B: Winching Service Charge
Class Category GVW (lbs) 2014 2015
Class   Category    GVW (lbs)       2014    2015
Class 1 Light Duty  6,000 or less   $67.50  $67.50
Class 2 Light Duty  6,000 - 10,000  $67.50  $67.50
Class 3 Medium Duty 10,001 -14,000  $125    $125
Class 4 Medium Duty 14,001 - 16,000 $125    $125
Class 5 Medium Duty 16,001 - 19,500 $137.50 $137.50
Class 6 Medium Duty 19,501 - 26,000 $150    $150
Class 7 Heavy Duty  26,001 - 33,000 $150    $150
Class 8 Heavy Duty  33,001 and over $175    $175
 
Schedule C: Administrative, Storage, and General Charges
   Administrative - A onetime administrative fee of $25 payable to the Township
of Voorhees shall be collected for each vehicle towed for the processing and
maintenance of towing records. This fee shall be paid to the Township by the
tenth of each month. Failure to pay this administrative fee shall result in the
removal of the tower from the contract pursuant to §
76.07.
   A onetime removal fee of $55 may be charged for each vehicle that has to be
removed from the storage facility by means of towing. This fee is intended
solely for those vehicles that are inoperable due to damage that requires the
tower to remove the vehicle from the storage lot in order for another person or
firm to remove the vehicle for disposal.
   Storage - There shall be no storage charge for any vehicle that is removed
from the storage facility on the same calendar day that it is towed.
Daily Exterior Storage Charge
Class 1 through 5                              $35
Class 6 and 7                                 $45
Class 8                                    $50
Daily Interior (Covered) Charge (not including tarping)
Class 1 through 5                              $50
Class 6 through 8                              N/A
   In accordance with §
76.08, no storage fee shall be imposed if the tower declines to provide pickup
hours on legal holidays.
   General - The following general service calls shall apply when the tower
responds to a Police request for these services. These types of service calls
typically do not require the vehicle to be physically removed from the location
rather the tower provides the service on scene and the vehicle is driven by the
owner/operator from the scene. Should the services be unsuccessful on scene and
the removal of the vehicle is required to complete the repairs/service, at the
vehicle owners/operators approval, the above towing fees shall apply.
Lock-Out                                    $75/hour*
*the hour begins upon the tows arrival on scene
Tire Change                                    $75 per tire
Fuel Supply                                    $60 (includes 5 gallons of fuel)
Jump Start                                    $75
These charges shall not apply to Township vehicles
Schedule D: Miscellaneous Charges
   Miscellaneous: - Waiting Time: waiting in excess of the initial 30 minutes
from the time of arrival on scene to the start of the vehicle removal shall be
calculated in 15 minute intervals. A flat fee of $35 per 15 minutes of waiting
time shall be permitted after the initial 30 minutes from arrival.
   Excessive Clean Up: Cleanup of debris in excess of what one would reasonably
expect at the scene of a motor vehicle collision shall be charged in 30 minute
intervals. A flat fee of $50 per half hour of excessive clean up shall be
permitted.
   Fluid Clean Up: A flat fee of $10 per bag of absorbent materials used shall
be permitted. Failure to utilize a full bag will be indicative that a standard
clean-up occurred and no fee shall be incurred.
   Window Wrap: A flat fee of $35 per window for window wrap shall be permitted
providing the window wrap was done at the direction of the vehicle owner/
operator or police as deemed necessary for investigative purposes.
   Tarping: A flat fee of $50 shall be permitted to tarp a vehicle provided the
tarping was done at the direction of the vehicle owner/operator or police as
deemed necessary for investigative purposes.
   Transmission Disconnect: A flat fee of $100 shall be permitted if the
vehicles drive train components are required to be disconnected in order to
remove the vehicle. The removal of the drive shaft, drive axel, linkage or any
other component under the vehicle which said removal would permit the rotation
of the vehicles tires for removal would constitute a "disconnect".
   Decoupling: A flat fee of $35 is permitted for decoupling as defined above.
   Specialized Equipment: The use of specialized equipment other that the first
tow truck to recover a motor vehicle that cannot be recovered by winching or
pieces of a motor vehicle that cannot be moved by hand, which may be both labor
and an equipment charge billed in half-hour increments.
(Ord. 247-14, passed 5-12-14)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
   
91.   BRUSH, GRASS AND WEEDS
   
92.   DOGS AND CATS
   
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
   
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
95.   NOISE
   
96.   PARKING AREA MAINTENANCE
   
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
99.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
   
100.   ALARMS
   
101.   GAMES, AUTOMATIC AND COMMERCIAL
   
102.   SPONSORSHIP POLICY
   
103.   SNOW REMOVAL
   
104.   HENS IN VOORHEES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Findings
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Abandonment on public or private lands unlawful
   
90.04   Junk automobile storage prohibited
   
90.05   Presumption of abandonment
   
90.06   Impoundment of vehicles
   
90.07   Notice of impoundment
   
90.08   Removal from public property
   
90.09   Vehicles on private property
   
90.10   Exceptions on private lands
   
90.11   Exempt certificate
   
90.12   Sale of impounded vehicles
   
90.13   Continued violations
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 FINDINGS.
   It is hereby determined and declared that the abandonment or storage out-of-
doors of any motor vehicle not currently in use for transportation and not
currently licensed or registered on any public or private lands within the
Township, is contrary and inimical to the public welfare in that such articles
so abandoned or stored attract or may attract persons of tender years who,
being so attracted, may play in and about them and be injured in so doing and
in that such vehicles so abandoned or stored out-of-doors, exposed to the
elements, deteriorate and in themselves are unsightly and, deteriorating,
become more unsightly and are detrimental to and depreciate the value of
properties in the neighborhood where they are located and in the township as a
whole.
('74 Code, § 123-1) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Includes any motor vehicle, omnibus, road tractor, trailer, truck,
truck tractor or vehicle which:
      (1)   Is parked on private or public property without the current year's
registration or identification markers as required by law for a period of 15
days.
      (2)   Has been continuously parked in any public street or on any public
land or on any private property for a period of 15 days.
      (3)   Is so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic, and the
driver or person owning or in charge thereof neglects or refuses to move the
same to a place where it will not obstruct traffic.
      (4)   Is found to be mechanically inoperative and is allowed to remain
inoperative for a period of 15 days. Said period of time may be extended by the
Police Department for good cause.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILE or JUNK AUTOMOBILE BODY. Any automobile which is no longer
in actual use as a motor vehicle or which is wholly unfit, without rebuilding
or reconditioning, for use in highway transportation or which has been
discarded for use as a motor vehicle or otherwise abandoned.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, OMNIBUS, ROAD TRACTOR, TRAILER, TRUCK, TRUCK TRACTOR and
VEHICLE. Have the meanings stated and defined in N.J.S.A. 39:1-1 et seq.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation being the owner or
having any legal right in, of or to the motor vehicle or other vehicle, as
herein defined. For the purposes of this chapter, PERSON shall also mean any
individual, firm, partnership or corporation being the owner and/or lessee of
the land upon which the motor vehicle or other vehicle is located.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the Township of Voorhees.
('74 Code, § 123-2) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.03 ABANDONMENT ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE LANDS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or suffer or permit the
abandoning of any motor vehicle, omnibus, road tractor, trailer, truck or truck
tractor or other vehicle, as defined herein, out-of-doors upon any public or
private lands in the township or on any public street or between the right-of-
way side lines of any public right-of-way therein. Nothing herein contained
shall be deemed to prohibit the placing, keeping or storage of any such vehicle
in an enclosed garage, barn or other building.
('74 Code, § 123-3) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04 JUNK AUTOMOBILE STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place, keep or store any junk automobile or junk automobile
body, as heretofore defined in this chapter, on any public or private property
within the township.
('74 Code, § 123-4) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 PRESUMPTION OF ABANDONMENT.
   If any motor vehicle, omnibus, road tractor, trailer, truck, truck tractor
or vehicle, as defined in this chapter, shall be abandoned on private lands for
15 days or more, it shall be presumed that the owner or tenant in possession of
said land has abandoned it there or permitted or suffered it to be abandoned
there.
('74 Code, § 123-5) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever any officer of the Township Police Department finds any motor
vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body which has been abandoned, kept
or stored contrary to the provisions of this chapter, such member of the
Township Police Department shall remove, secure the removal of and/or impound
said motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body in accordance with
the procedures hereinafter set forth. The expenses of the impoundment shall be
borne by and be the responsibility of the owner of the vehicle. In the event
that the owner of the vehicle cannot be located in accordance with the
procedures of §
90.07, the owner of the property shall be responsible for the expenses,
provided that notice is forwarded in accordance with §
90.07.
('74 Code, § 123-6) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.07 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Notice of the impoundment of any motor vehicle, junk automobile or
junk automobile body shall be given to the owner of said motor vehicle, junk
automobile or junk automobile body or to the owner or tenant of lands upon
which a violation is occurring pursuant to §
90.03 above, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the
last known address of the party to be served, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The time and place of impoundment.
      (2)   Location of the motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile
body.
      (3)   The reason for impoundment.
      (4)   The amount and nature of penalties and costs that may be entered,
including but not limited to the costs of towing and storage of the motor
vehicle.
      (5)   A statement that a sale of the motor vehicle, junk automobile or
junk automobile body will occur after 90 days if the motor vehicle, junk
automobile or junk automobile body is not reclaimed.
      (6)   A statement of the time and place of sale.
   (B)   The address of the owner as shown on the records of the State Division
of Motor Vehicles shall be deemed sufficient for the purpose of this section.
('74 Code, § 123-11) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.08 REMOVAL FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Whenever any motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body is found
on any public street, highway or public property, an emergency condition is
herewith declared to exist, and any officer of the Township Police Department
is hereby authorized to immediately remove, secure the removal of and/or
impound the motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body without
necessity of notice prior to said impoundment. After impoundment, the Police
Department shall use diligent efforts to identify and locate the owner of the
impounded motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body and notify the
owner in accordance with §
90.07. The expenses of the impoundment shall be borne by and be the
responsibility of the owner of the vehicle.
('74 Code, § 123-7) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.09 VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Whenever any motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body is found
on any private land in violation of this chapter, any officer of the Police
Department shall cause the owner of the motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk
automobile body, if he can be found, or the owner or tenant of the private
lands upon which the violation is occurring to be given five days' written
notice that said violation exists; said notice shall be given by certified
mail, return receipt requested, sent to the last known address of the owner of
the motor vehicle, junk automobile or junk automobile body and/or the owner or
tenant of the property. Said police officers shall place a warning sticker on
the vehicle indicating a violation of this chapter and informing the owner that
if the condition is not corrected, then the vehicle may be towed or a summons
may be issued, or both. Said warning shall contain such other information as
the Chief of Police deems necessary to conform to the requirements of this
chapter. The expenses of the impoundment shall be borne by and be the
responsibility of the owner of the vehicle. In the event that the owner of the
vehicle cannot be located in accordance with the procedures of §
90.07, the owner of the property shall be responsible for the expenses,
provided that notice is forwarded in accordance with §
90.07.
('74 Code, § 123-8) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.10 EXCEPTIONS ON PRIVATE LANDS.
   Nothing heretofore mentioned shall be deemed to prevent any of the following
activities from being conducted on private lands under the conditions or by the
people referred to:
   (A)   Any person may maintain motor vehicles altered for drag or stock car
racing as long as said motor vehicles are maintained on registered trailers.
   (B)   Owners of motor vehicles which would otherwise come under the
provisions of this chapter who are in the military service stationed outside
the State of New Jersey shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   Owners of antique motor vehicles which are classified as such under
state statutes are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Operators of a properly licensed used or new car agency.
   (E)   Vehicles which are actively being restored, provided that the same are
located within a fenced area as provided for in § 158.040, Fences, of the
Zoning Code.
('74 Code, § 123-9) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87; Am. Ord. 433-1988, passed
12-29-88)
§ 90.11 EXEMPT CERTIFICATE.
   Any person who possesses, owns or maintains a motor vehicle covered under
any one of the exclusions referred to in § 90.10 above shall obtain from the
Chief of Police a letter on Police Department stationery which shall bear the
signature and seal of the Chief of Police and which shall indicate that the
motor vehicle in question comes under one of the exclusions referred to in §
90.10 above. Said exempt certificate shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance and may be renewed on an annual basis by obtaining a new letter
from the Chief of Police. All owners of exempt certificates shall display the
exempt letter on the windshield or other prominent place on the motor vehicle
in question so that it is readily observable by the enforcement officials under
the provisions of this chapter. No fees shall be charged for the issuance of
said letter.
('74 Code, § 123-10) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.12 SALE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any vehicle impounded by the Police Department shall remain
unclaimed for a period of 90 days, the vehicle shall be sold under the
direction of the Chief of Police at public auction to the highest bidder. Such
auction held shall take place after notice of such sale has been given at least
seven days prior thereto by one publication in the newspaper circulated in the
township and upon the mailing of a copy of said notice to the owner of the
vehicle, by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least seven days prior
to the sale. The address of the owner as shown on the records of the State
Division of Motor Vehicles shall be deemed sufficient for the purposes of this
chapter.
('74 Code, § 123-12) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.13 CONTINUED VIOLATIONS.
   A continuance of a violation or a noncompliance with the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a nuisance, and the Township Committee shall have the
right to apply to the courts of this state for injunctive relief or other
relief in addition to the penalties provided for herein.
('74 Code, § 123-14) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding $200 or by imprisonment not
exceeding 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the Municipal Judge; and each
day that such violation shall continue shall be deemed as separate offense.
('74 Code, § 123-13) (Ord. 382-1987, passed 12-30-87)
CHAPTER 91: BRUSH, GRASS AND WEEDS
Section
   
91.01   Accumulation prohibited
   
91.02   Notice to remove
   
91.03   Service of notice
   
91.04   Noncompliance; abatement by township
   
91.05   Costs of removal
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or tenant of a dwelling or lands lying
within the limits of the township to allow, suffer or permit on such lands any
accumulation of brush, weeds, including ragweed, fallen dead or dying trees,
stumps, roots, obnoxious growth, filth, garbage, trash and debris in a manner
detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare or in such manner
as to constitute a fire hazard, and in such case the owner and tenant shall
remove or destroy the same. Premises with landscaping and lawns, hedges and
bushes shall be kept trimmed and from becoming overgrown and unsightly where
exposed to public view and where the same constitutes a blighting factor
depreciating adjoining property. Lawns with grass higher than 10 inches shall
be presumed in violation of this section.
('74 Code, § 43-1) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. 773-96, passed 10-14-96)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.02 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever brush, weeds, including ragweed, fallen dead or dying trees,
stumps, roots, obnoxious growth, filth, garbage, trash and debris shall have
been allowed, suffered or permitted to accumulate on lands lying within the
limits of the township in a manner detrimental to the public health, safety or
general welfare or in such manner as to constitute a fire hazard, the Township
Committee or the Health Officer, Chief of the Police Department or other
township official designated for this purpose by the Township Committee, shall
cause ten days' written notice to remove or destroy the same to be given to the
tenant of any such lands.
('74 Code, § 43-2) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. 773-96, passed 10-14-96)
§ 91.03 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Written notice as aforesaid shall be given both the owner and tenant
of the land, if known, and may be served personally or left with a member of
the household over the age of 14 years or may be sent by certified mail to the
last known post office address of such owner or tenant.
   (B)   In the event that the name and post office address of the owner is not
known, then such written notice as aforesaid shall be sent by certified mail
addressed to the person or persons whose names appear as owner on the last tax
duplicate with the mailing address shown thereon.
('74 Code, § 43-3) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. 773-96, passed 10-14-96)
§ 91.04 NONCOMPLIANCE; ABATEMENT BY TOWNSHIP.
   In the event that any owner or tenant shall refuse or neglect to remove or
destroy said accumulation within the time limited by such notice, then the
Township Committee may authorize and direct that the same be removed or
destroyed by or under the direction of the Chief of the Police Department or
other Township official designated by the Township Committee for this purpose.
('74 Code, § 43-4) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. 773-96, passed 10-14-96)
§ 91.05 COSTS OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   In the event that such owner or tenant shall refuse or neglect to
remove or destroy any such accumulations as hereinbefore set forth and it shall
be necessary for the Township Committee to cause the same to be removed or
destroyed, the officer responsible therefor shall certify the cost thereof to
the Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 43-5)
   (B)   Upon such certification to the Township Committee of the cost of
removal or destruction as hereinbefore set forth, the Township Committee shall
examine such certification and, if found correct, the cost as shown thereon
shall, by resolution of the Township Committee, be charged against said lands.
('74 Code, § 43-6)
   (C)   Upon passage of said resolution by the Township Committee, a certified
copy thereof shall be filed with the Collector of Taxes and the amount so
charged shall forthwith become a lien upon such lands and shall be added to and
become and form part of the taxes next to be assessed and levied upon such
lands, the same to bear interest at the same rate as taxes and shall be
collected and enforced by the same officers and in the same manner as taxes.
('74 Code, § 43-7)
(Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. 773-96, passed 10-14-96)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a penalty, either by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by a
fine not exceeding $500, or both, in the discretion of the court. Each and
every day any violation continues after notice to remove or destroy any
accumulation, as provided herein, shall be considered a separate offense,
punishable by a like fine or penalty. However, the penalties for violations
which involve premises with overgrown or unsightly lawns, hedges and bushes
shall be limited to a fine not to exceed $200.
('74 Code, § 43-8) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. 773-96, passed 10-14-96)
CHAPTER 92: DOGS AND CATS
Section
General Provisions and Licensing
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   License and registration tag required; identification of dogs and cats
   
92.03   License fees; renewal; seeing eye and hearing ear dogs
   
92.04   Issuance of license to minor prohibited
   
92.05   Application information
   
92.06   Dogs and cats licensed within state
   
92.07   Dogs and cats licensed outside state
   
92.08   Unlicensed dogs and cats brought into Township
   
92.09   Time limit for licensing
Nuisances and Disturbances
   
92.20   Annual canvass
   
92.21   Running at large
   
92.22   Dogs and cats off premises of owner
   
92.23   Dogs and cats causing damage
   
92.24   Causes for impoundment and release
   
92.25   Notice of seizure
   
92.26   Contract for impoundment
   
92.27   Additional statutory provisions
   
92.28   Disturbances of neighborhood by barking, whining, howling or fighting
   
92.29   Commission in certain areas prohibited; removal required
   
92.30   Pet waste
   
92.31   Tethering of dogs
Pet Shops
   
92.32   Sale of dogs and cats
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.50   Enforcement authority
   
92.51   Payment of fines
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND LICENSING
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER or VACO. The person, persons or firm with whom the
Township shall contract to enforce certain provisions of this chapter. The
Animal Control Officer must be certified by the state as an animal control
officer and must maintain such certification in good standing during the entire
term of the contract.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or members of the owner's family, either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise.
   CAT. Both male and female.
   DOG. Both male and female, bitch or spayed bitch.
   DOG OF LICENSING AGE. Any dog which has attained the age of seven months or
which possesses a set of permanent teeth.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, property manager, partnership,
association, corporation or organization of any kind who owns or has a right of
property in such dog and/or cat or who has control and/or ownership in the
premises where the dog and/or cat is kept or harbored.
   PET SHOP. Any room or group of rooms, cage or exhibition pen, not part of a
kennel, wherein dogs and/or cats for sale are kept or displayed.
   POUND. Any establishment for the confinement of dogs and cats, seized either
under the provisions of this chapter, the statutes of the state or otherwise.
('74 Code, § 54-1) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00; Am. Ord. 70-05, passed 6-27-05)
§ 92.02 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION TAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, as defined herein, keep or harbor a dog of
licensing age in the Township, in the month of January in each year, shall
apply for and procure from the Township Clerk a license and official metal
registration tag for each such dog so owned, kept or harbored.
   (B)   Any person who shall own, as defined herein, keep, feed or harbor a
cat of licensing age in the Township, in the month of January in each year,
shall apply for and procure from the Township Clerk a license and official
metal registration tag for each such cat so owned, kept or harbored.
   (C)   Any person who owns, keeps, feeds or harbors a dog or cat of licensing
age in the Township, at all times while the dog or cat is off of the premises
of such owner, shall have some form of identification either on the body of
such dog or cat or within the control and possession of the person who has such
dog or cat under his or her control. Such identification may be in the form of
the metal registration tag provided by the Township with the annual license, as
computer identification chip installed on the body of the dog or cat or some
other acceptable means of identification.
('74 Code, § 54-2) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00; Am. Ord. 70-05, passed 6-27-05)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03 LICENSE FEES; RENEWAL; SEEING EYE AND HEARING EAR DOGS.
   (A)   The person applying for a license pursuant to this chapter shall pay
to the Township Clerk the following license fee, which shall include the
registration tag:
      (1)   For each dog which has not had its reproductive capacity altered
through sterilization, the fee shall be an amount set annually by Township
Committee. If payment is made after May 10, in addition to the license fee, a
late fee as set annually by the Township Committee shall be assessed.
      (2)   For each dog which has had its reproductive capacity altered
through sterilization, the fee shall be an amount set by Township Committee. If
payment is made after May 10, in addition to the license fee, a late fee as set
annually by the Township Committee shall be assessed.
      (3)   For each cat which has not had its reproductive capacity altered
through sterilization, the fee shall be an amount set annually by Township
Committee. If payment is made after May 10, in addition to the license fee, a
late fee set annually by the Township Committee shall be assessed.
      (4)   For each cat which has had its reproductive capacity altered
through sterilization, the fee shall be an amount set by Township Committee. If
payment is made after May 10, in addition to the license fee, a late fee as set
annually bu the Township Committee shall be assessed.
   (B)   Each license and tag shall be renewed annually, and for each annual
renewal the person applying shall pay the same fee for the license and
registration tag as hereinbefore provided. The licensing year for dogs and cats
shall run from January 1st of each year through December 31st of the same year.
   (C)   Dogs used as guides for visually impaired or hearing impaired persons
and commonly known as “Seeing Eye” or “Hearing Ear” dogs shall be licensed and
registered as other dogs hereinbefore provided for, except that the owner or
keeper of such dog shall not be required to pay any license fee therefor.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or possessor of any dog of licensing age acquired
after May 10 or of any dog which attains licensing age after May 10 shall make
application for a dog license within ten days of such acquisition or age
attainment. Upon presentation of proof of the date of acquisition or age
attainment, that person shall be required to pay the license fee only.
      (2)   The owner or possessor of any cat of licensing age acquired after
May 10 or any cat which attains licensing age after May 10 shall make
application for a license within ten days after such acquisition or age
attainment. Upon presentation of proof of the date of acquisition or age
attainment, that person shall be required to pay the license fee only.
   (E)   New residents shall make application for a license within 60 days of
residency. Upon presentation of proof of the date of residency, new residents
shall be required to pay the license fee only.
('74 Code, § 54-3) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE TO MINOR PROHIBITED.
   No license to own, keep or harbor a dog or cat shall be issued to or in the
name of a minor.
('74 Code, § 54-4) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
§ 92.05 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   The completed application form furnished by the Township Clerk, which, when
signed by the Township Clerk or Deputy Clerk, shall become the license for such
dog and/or cat, shall state the breed, sex, age, color and markings of the dog
or cat for which the license and registration are sought, whether the dog and/
or cat is of a longhaired or shorthaired variety, the name, state and post
office address of the owner and the person who shall keep or harbor such dog
and/or cat.
('74 Code, § 54-5) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
§ 92.06 DOGS AND CATS LICENSED WITHIN STATE.
   Any dog or cat owned by a resident of the state, and duly licensed for the
current licensing year by and bearing the proper registration tag for a New
Jersey municipality, shall be exempt from the licensing and tag provisions of
this section for the then current year.
('74 Code, § 54-6) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
§ 92.07 DOGS AND CATS LICENSED OUTSIDE STATE.
   Any person who shall bring or cause to be brought into the Township any dog
or cat licensed in a state other than New Jersey for the current licensing
year, and shall keep the same in the Township for a period of more than 90
days, shall immediately apply for a license and registration tag for such dog
and/or cat.
('74 Code, § 54-7) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.08 UNLICENSED DOGS AND CATS BROUGHT INTO TOWNSHIP.
   Any person who shall bring or cause to be brought into the Township any
unlicensed dog or cat and shall keep the same in the Township for a period of
more than ten days shall immediately apply for a license and registration tag
for such dog and/or cat.
('74 Code, § 54-7) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.09 TIME LIMIT FOR LICENSING.
   The owner of any newly acquired dog of licensing age, or a cat of licensing
age, or of any dog which attains licensing age or cat which attains licensing
age shall apply for a license and registration tag for such dog and/or cat
within ten days after such acquisition or age attainment.
('74 Code, § 54-9) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-
00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
NUISANCES AND DISTURBANCES
§ 92.20 ANNUAL CANVASS.
   The Township Clerk shall annually cause a canvass to be made of all dogs and
cats owned, kept or harbored within the limits of the Township. This census
shall be completed in accordance with N.J.S.A. 4:19-15.16 and all reports made
shall be as required under such statute.
('74 Code, § 54-11) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
§ 92.21 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No dog or cat shall run at large at any time within the limits of the
Township.
('74 Code, § 54-12) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.22 DOGS AND CATS OFF PREMISES OF OWNER.
   No dog or cat shall be permitted off the premises of the person owning,
keeping or harboring it unless accompanied by a person who is capable of
controlling it and who has the dog and/or cat securely confined and controlled.
('74 Code, § 54-13) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.23 DOGS AND CATS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or cat shall permit or suffer
it to do any injury or damage to any lawn, shrubbery, flowers, grounds or
property owned by any person or entity (including any condominium association
or homeowners' association common area property) other than the property of the
owner or person having the care, custody or control of such dog or cat.
('74 Code, § 54-14) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.24 CAUSES FOR IMPOUNDMENT AND RELEASE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, every police officer, and the Animal Control
Officer shall have the authority to take into custody and impound or cause to
be taken into custody and impounded, the following:
      (1)   Any dog or cat running at large in the Township;
      (2)   Any dog or cat off the premises of the owner or of the person
keeping or harboring the dog or cat, which dog or cat the official or his agent
or agents have reason to believe is a stray dog or cat;
      (3)   Any dog or cat off the premises of the owner or of the person
keeping or harboring the dog or cat, which dog or cat is not controlled by a
leash or chain as provided by this chapter;
      (4)   Any dog or cat with fierce, dangerous or vicious propensities or
noticeably infected with rabies or bitten by a dog or cat suspected of having
rabies;
      (5)   Any dog or cat off the premises of the owner or of the person
keeping or harboring such dog or cat, without a current registration as
provided in this chapter; and
      (6)   Any female dog or cat in season off the premises of the owner or of
the person keeping or harboring such dog or cat which dog or cat is not
controlled as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Dogs and/or cats may be released from impoundment only after the
impound facility verifies that such dog or cat has been licensed in accordance
with this chapter and that all rabies shots required for the age and size of
the dog or cat have been given and all required booster shots are current.
('74 Code, § 54-15) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
§ 92.25 NOTICE OF SEIZURE.
   Any dog or cat seized under this chapter shall be handled and disposed of
with proper notices given, as required under N.J.S.A. 4:19-15.16.
('74 Code, § 54-16) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
§ 92.26 CONTRACT FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Township shall have the authority to provide by contract with a carrier
for the impoundment of dogs or cat seized. Maintenance and redemption fees
shall be as set forth in such contract. All contracts with any carrier shall
require such carrier to only release dogs and cats impounded by such carrier
after the owner (or any person or otherwise obtains the release of such dogs
and cats from impoundment), provides the proof required under §
92.24(B) above. This provision shall apply to contracts entered into from and
after January 1, 2001.
('74 Code, § 54-17) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
§ 92.27 ADDITIONAL STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to the provisions and
penalties of any and all statutes of the state relating to rabies and control
of dogs and cats.
('74 Code, § 54-18) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
§ 92.28 DISTURBANCES OF NEIGHBORHOOD BY BARKING, WHINING, HOWLING OR FIGHTING.
   No person owning, keeping or harboring any dog or cat shall allow it to
create a noise disturbance across residential real property lines of any
neighboring property. For the purpose of this section, a NOISE DISTURBANCE
ACROSS RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY LINES OF ANY NEIGHBORING PROPERTY is defined
as that created by a dog or cat barking, whining, howling or fighting
continuously for five minutes, or intermittently for 15 minutes.
('74 Code, § 54-19) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00; Am. Ord. 213-12, passed 5-29-12)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.29 COMMISSION IN CERTAIN AREAS PROHIBITED; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   No person owning, keeping , harboring, walking, or in charge of any dog or
cat shall cause, suffer, permit or allow such dog or cat to soil, defile,
defecate on or commit any nuisance on any thoroughfare, street or sidewalk or
upon any public property whatsoever or upon any private property without
permission of the owner of the private property. If any such person shall
permit such dog or cat to soil, defile, defecate on or commit any nuisance on
the areas shall immediately remove and dispose of all feces and droppings
deposited by such dog or cats, which removal shall be in a sanitary manner by a
shovel container, disposal bag, or the like. If the management, ownership or
association owning, operating or controlling the common areas of a
multidwelling complex provides a pet walking or exercise area on the common
areas of the complex, occupants of the complex shall take his or her dog(s) or
cat(s) only to the designated walking or exercise area for exercise, defecation
and/or elimination and all such occupants who use such area shall do so,
including removal of and disposal of all feces and droppings by such dog(s) or
cat(s), in accordance with the rules and regulations of such complex. All dog
or cat owners shall maintain his or her own property, including any patio,
porch, deck, yard or other outside area which is part of his or her home or
over which the owner/occupant has exclusive control in a sanitary manner in
order to prevent any noxious odors or any other public health nuisances to
neighbors.
('74 Code, §54-20) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. ord. 964-99, passed 11-
22-99; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-00)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.30 PET WASTE.
   (A)   Purpose. A section to establish requirements for the proper disposal
of pet solid waste in the Township so as to protect public health, safety and
welfare, and to prescribe penalties for failure to comply.
   (B)    Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein
unless their use in the text of this section clearly demonstrates a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      IMMEDIATE. That the pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
      OWNER/KEEPER. Any person who shall possess, maintain, house or harbor any
pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of such pet.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association or political subdivision of this state, subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal)
kept for amusement or companionship.
      PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
      PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle or other
suitable container and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a
system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
   (C)   Requirement for disposal. All pet owners and keepers are required to
immediately and properly dispose of their pet’s solid waste deposited on any
property, public or private, not owned or possessed by that person.
   (D)   Exemptions. Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability
assistance animal shall be exempt from the provisions of this section while
such animal is being used for that purpose.
   (E)   Enforcement. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the
Police Department and the local code enforcement official of the Township.
   (F)   Violations and penalty. Any person(s) who is found to be in violation
of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250
for each offense.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 92.31 TETHERING OF DOGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to chain or tether unneutered/unspayed dogs in any
manner and/or at any time within the township.
   (B)   Neutered/spayed dogs may be tethered under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The tether must be at least 15 feet long and have operative swivel
on both ends, weigh no more than one-eighth of the dog’s weight and be attached
to a properly fitting collar or harness.
      (2)   The collar used for tethering may not be a choke chain collar, slip
collar, or prong collar.
      (3)   The tether must allow the dog access to proper shelter, sufficient
food and sufficient water.
      (4)   The tether may not be used in any area where it may become tangled
around any object, such as, but not limited to, a tree, pole, fence, or stake.
      (5)   The tether cannot inhibit the movement of the animal’s limbs or
cause injury, harm, entanglement or strangulation.
      (6)   The tether must restrain the dog within the bounds of the owner’s
or caregiver’s property.
      (7)   The tether must terminate no less than five feet from any fence,
pool, wall, vehicle, tree, or other object or obstruction upon which any animal
may harm itself.
      (8)   Dogs may be tethered for no more than four consecutive hours in any
24-hour period of time and never between sunset and sunrise.
   (C)   When a violation of this provision occurs, an animal control officer
or law enforcement officer is authorized to document the circumstances and
evidence, take reasonable measures to remove the animal from the tether, take
the tether as evidence, and take the animal to the pound.
(Ord. 260-15, passed 2-23-15)
PET SHOPS
§ 92.32 SALE OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center or animal shelter,
maintained by or under contract with any state, county, or municipality, whose
mission and practice is, in whole, or significant part, the rescue and
placement of animals in permanent homes or rescue organizations.
      ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION. Any not-for-profit organization which has
tax-exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue
Code, whose mission and practice is, in whole or in significant part, the
rescue and placement of animals in permanent homes.
      CAT. A member of the species of domestic cat, Felis catus.
      DOG. A member of the species of domestic dog, Cams familiaris.
      OFFER FOR SALE. To sell, offer for sale or adoption, advertise for the
sale of, barter, auction, give away or otherwise dispose of a dog or cat.
      PET SHOP. A retail establishment where dogs and cats are sold, exchanged,
bartered or offered for sale as pet animals to the general public at retail.
Such definition shall not include an animal care facility or animal rescue
organization, as defined above.
   (B)   Restrictions on the sale of animals.
      (1)   A pet shop may offer for sale only those dogs and cats that the pet
shop has obtained from or displays in cooperation with:
         (a)   An animal care facility; or
         (b)   An animal rescue organization.
      (2)   A pet shop shall not offer for sale a dog or cat that is younger
than eight weeks old.
   (C)   Enforcement. Enforcement authority is hereby delegated to the County
of Camden, which shall enforce the terms of this section through the County
Department of Health and Human Services.
(Ord. 269-15, passed 10-13-15)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.50 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of §§
92.02 through
92.09 shall be enforced by the Township Clerk, by the Deputy Township Clerk, or
by a designee named by the Township Clerk, who shall have the authority to cite
and issue a summons and complaint to any person who violates and/or fails to
comply with any of the provisions of §§
92.02 through
92.09.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or any police officer, shall have the authority
to cite or issue a complaint to any person who violates or fails to comply with
any of the provisions of §§
92.20 through
92.29.
('74 Code, §§ 54-10 and 54-21) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 964-99,
passed 11-22-99; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-10-00; Am. Ord. 172-10, passed 10-
12-10)
§ 92.51 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   All fines imposed and collected under and by virtue of §
92.99 shall be paid into the treasury of the Township.
('74 Code, § 54-22) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 10-
10-00)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted after a hearing of violating or failing to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both, in the
discretion of the court. The continuation of such violation for each successive
day shall constitute a separate offense and the person or persons allowing or
permitting the continuation of the violation may be punished as provided above
for each separate offense.
('74 Code, §§ 54-10 and 54-21) (Ord. 841-97, passed 10-13-97; Am. Ord. 26-00,
passed 10-10-00)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Plumbing
   
93.01   State laws incorporated
   
93.02   Fees
PLUMBING
§ 93.01 STATE LAWS INCORPORATED.
   All installation, maintenance, repair and control of the plumbing of
buildings and facilities within the Township and the connection thereof with
outside sewers, cesspools, septic tanks or other receptacles shall be completed
only in accordance with the New Jersey Uniform Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:
23), as may be amended from time to time, and only by a person licensed to
practice plumbing under the laws and regulations of the state.
(Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 93.02 FEES.
   The Township Committee shall establish annually the fees to be charged for
all services, licenses and permits administered by the Township Construction
Department for plumbing services.
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Enforcement of the Uniform Fire Safety Act
   
94.01   Local enforcement
   
94.02   Designation of enforcement agency
   
94.03   Duties of enforcement agency
   
94.04   Organization of enforcement agency
   
94.05   Appointments; terms of office; removal
   
94.06   Board of Appeals
   
94.07   Life hazard uses
   
94.08   Additional required inspections and fees
   
94.09   Violations; penalties; fines; obstruction of duties
   
94.10   Permit fees
   
94.11   Collection of fees
   
94.12   Technical amendments
Emergency Medical Services
   
94.25   Emergency medical services provided
   
94.26   Requirements for all emergency medical technicians
   
94.27   Establishment of positions
   
94.28   No denial or delay of service
   
94.29   Allocation of costs
   
94.30   Maintenance of service records
   
94.31   Fees for medical services and billings
ENFORCEMENT OF THE
UNIFORM FIRE SAFETY ACT
§ 94.01 LOCAL ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to Section 11 of the Uniform Fire Safety Act (P.L. 1983, c. 383)
[1], the New Jersey Uniform Fire Code (N.J.A.C. 5:70-1 et seq.) shall be
enforced locally within the established limits of the Township of Voorhees.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
[1]   Editor’s Note:
   See N.J.S.A. 52:27D-202.
§ 94.02 DESIGNATION OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   The local enforcing agency shall be the Fire Prevention Bureau (hereinafter
also referred to as Fire Marshal Office or Fire Official Office), Township Fire
Department, established for the entire geographical area of the Township of
Voorhees. The Fire Prevention Bureau/Township Fire Department shall hereinafter
be known as the “local enforcing agency.”
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.03 DUTIES OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   The local enforcing agency shall enforce the Uniform Fire Safety Act, the
Uniform Fire Code and all regulations adopted under it in all buildings,
structures and premises within the geographic boundaries of the township other
than one- and two-unit owner-occupied dwellings used exclusively for dwelling
purposes and buildings, structures and premises owned or operated by the
government, interstate, state, and county agencies. The local enforcing agency
shall faithfully comply with the requirements of the Uniform Fire Safety Act
and Uniform Fire Code.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.04 ORGANIZATION OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   The local enforcing agency established in §
94.02 of this chapter shall be part of the Township Fire Department and shall
be under the supervision of the Fire Official who shall report to the Chief of
the Fire Department. Such funds as may be necessary to support the operations
of the agency, shall be raised by the Township Fire Department quarterly
rebates of LHU fees from the state and other fees in a manner provided by law.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.05 APPOINTMENTS; TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Appointment of the Fire Official/Fire Marshal. The Fire Official/Fire
Marshal shall be appointed by the Township Committee. Said Fire Official/Fire
Marshal shall meet the requirements and qualifications as set forth by the
division of fire safety and shall be certified to the same.
   (B)   Terms of office. The terms of office for the Fire Official, Deputy
Fire Officials and the Fire Inspectors/Investigators/Fire Prevention
Specialists shall be set forth by the Township Committee.
   (C)    Inspections/investigators and employees. The Fire Department shall
appoint such inspectors/ investigators/fire prevention specialists and other
employees as may be necessary to carry out all required inspection activity in
the Fire Department. Such inspectors shall be under the supervision and control
of the Fire Official. All life hazard use inspectors shall be certified by the
state.
   (D)   Deputy Fire Officials. The Fire Department shall appoint such Deputy
Fire Officials/Fire Marshals as necessary to maintain the safe and efficient
operations of the local enforcing agency in the absence of the Fire Official/
Fire Marshal. Their authority shall be the same as a fire inspector except in
such times, as assigned by the Fire Official/Fire Marshal in writing to fulfill
his/her duties and act on his/her behalf due to his/her absence or lack of
availability. This authority may also be granted by the Township Committee, if
the Fire Official/Fire Marshal should become incapacitated to perform the
duties for a period of time.
      (1)   Said Deputy Fire Officials/Fire Marshals shall meet the
requirements and qualifications as set forth by the division of fire safety and
shall be certified to the same.
      (2)   Said Deputy Fire Officials/Fire Marshals shall be approved by
resolution of Township Committee.
   (E)   Attorney. Pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:71-3.2(d), the Fire Department shall
appoint an attorney as the designated local enforcing agency attorney.
   (F)   Removal from office. The Fire Official and the fire inspectors/
investigators/fire prevention specialists and other employees of the enforcing
agency shall be subject to removal by the Township Committee for inefficiency
or misconduct. All employees to be removed shall be afforded an opportunity to
be heard by the appointing authority or designated hearing officer.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.06 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Pursuit to N.J.S.A. 52:27D-206 and 208, of the Uniform Fire Safety Act, any
person aggrieved by any order of the local enforcing agency shall have the
right to appeal to the Construction Board of Appeals of the county.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.07 LIFE HAZARD USES.
   The local enforcing agency established by §
94.02 of this chapter shall carry out periodic inspections of life hazard uses
required by the Uniform Fire Code on behalf of the Commissioner of the State
Department of Community Affairs.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.08 ADDITIONAL REQUIRED INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Use group annual inspections and fees. In addition to the inspection
and fees required pursuant to the Act and the regulations of the Department of
Community Affairs, the following additional annual inspections and fees shall
be required for non-life hazards:
      (1)   Business.
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION ANNUAL FEE
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                                ANNUAL FEE
B1        Business establishments having a gross floor area of 500   $75
          square feet or less
B2        Business establishments having a gross floor area of 501   $125
          square feet or more but less than 3,500 square feet
B3        Business establishments having a gross floor area of 3,501 $175
          square feet or more but less than 7,500 square feet
B4        Business establishments having a gross floor area of 7,501 $225
          square feet or more but less than 12,000 square feet
          Business establishments having a gross floor area of
B5        12,001 square feet or more but less than 24,000 square     $375
          feet
          Business establishments having a gross floor area of
B6        24,001 square feet or more but less than 48,000 square     $550
          feet
B7        Business establishments having a gross floor area of       $900
          48,001 square feet or more
          Business/Multi. Multiple business occupancy shall include
          all buildings and structures or parts thereof which are
          used for the purposes that meet the requirements of use
          group B and which comprise a multiplicity of rooms, suites
          or areas to accommodate multiple business occupancies, not
          to exceed 30 in number, which are rented from a common
B8        owner. The owner, who shall control access to all areas,   $500
          shall provide basic services as are needed for the tenants
          to conduct their business, at their option. These services
          may include but are not limited to clerical, phone
          answering, and message taking, photocopying and
          reproduction, mail services, security and secretarial and
          stenographers.
 
      (2)   Mercantile.
 
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                                ANNUAL FEE
M1        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of 500 $75
          square feet or less
M2        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of 501 $125
          square feet or more but less than 3,500 square feet
M3        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of     $200
          3,501 square feet or more but less than 7,500 square feet
M4        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of     $250
          7,501 square feet or more but less than 12,000 square feet
 
      (3)   Factory.
 
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                               ANNUAL FEE
F1        Factories having a gross floor area of less than 12,000   $350
          square feet
F2        Factories having a gross floor area of 12,001 square feet $550
          or more but less than 24,000 square feet
F3        Factories having a gross floor area of 24,001 square feet $800
          or more but less than 48,000 square feet
F4        Factories having a gross floor area of 48,001 square feet $1,000
          or more
 
      (4)   Storage.
 
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                                ANNUAL FEE
S1        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of less  $225
          than 3,500 square feet
S2        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of 3,501 $350
          square feet or more but less than 7,500 square feet
S3        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of 7,501 $450
          square feet or more but less than 12,000 square feet
          Building used for storage with a gross floor area of
S4        12,001 square feet or more but less than 24,000 square     $550
          feet
          Building used for storage with a gross floor area of
S5        24,001 square feet or more but less than 48,000 square     $750
          feet
S6        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of       $1,000
          48,001 square feet or more
 
      (5)   Residential.
 
R1 Apartments and condominiums (common areas only) $15/unit
 
      (6)   Fee exempt buildings. All government buildings, including fire
stations, EMS stations, police stations, etc. (but excluding meeting halls,
rental halls, social halls, and common areas) that are not classified as a life
hazard use shall have their fees waived.
   (B)   Fire safety use groups defined. For the purposes of uniformity, use
groups of all buildings contained in this section of this chapter shall be
defined using the 2006 Edition of the International Construction Code. Such
buildings shall be subject to the registration and periodic inspection
requirements established by this chapter. Where two or more life safety uses
exist at the same building or premises, each one shall be considered as
separate and distinct for the purposes of this chapter and shall be registered
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Doubtful fire safety use classification. When a building or structure
is not specifically classified within a fire safety use group, such building
shall be included in the fire safety use group it most nearly resembles in
respect to the existing life and fire hazard. It shall also be classified by
the Fire Official.
   (D)   Vacant buildings. The annual inspection and fee for all vacant
buildings shall be in accordance with the previous use of the building.
   (E)   Required inspections. All fire safety uses shall be inspected annually
for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the Uniform Fire Safety
Act.[1] When in the opinion of the Fire Official there exist conditions likely
to cause fire, contribute to the spread of fire, interfere with fire-fighting
operation, endanger life or violate the provisions or intent of this chapter,
additional inspections may be made as often as necessary for the purpose of
ascertaining these conditions and causing them to be corrected.
[1]   Editor’s Note:
   See N.J.S.A. 52.27D-192 et seq.
   (F)   Payment of fees. The owner of the building is responsible to register
and pay the fee for buildings containing common or public areas. The tenant/
occupant is responsible to register and pay the fee for the space occupied by
the tenant/occupant. All registrations will be for a period of one year and are
not subject to a refund or proration, and are non-transferable.
   (G)   Registration of buildings and annual fees.
      (1)   Every owner or tenant/occupant subject to this section shall file
with the local enforcing agency, using forms provided by the local enforcing
agency, for certification or registration. The application shall include but
not be limited to the name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
name, address and telephone number of the business; description of the
business; the name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for
the business; and emergency contact information as requested.
      (2)   If the owner or tenant/occupant subject to this chapter fails to
complete the registration within 30 days of the date on which it was mailed,
the local enforcing agency shall order the owner or tenant/occupant to pay a
penalty equal to double the scheduled registration fee.
      (3)   Every owner or tenant/occupant subject to this chapter shall pay
the local enforcing agency an annual registration fee in the amount specified
in this chapter. Said annual registration fee shall be paid by the date
specified in the invoice, which shall in no event be less than 30 days from the
date on which it was mailed.
   (H)   Enforcement. If any annual registration fee or any penalty for non-
registration is not paid within 30 days of its stated due date, the same may be
sued for and recovered by and in the name of the local enforcing agency in a
civil action by a summary proceeding under the Penalty Enforcement Law
(N.J.S.A. 2A:58-1 et seq.)[2] in the Township Municipal Court.
[2]   Editor’s Note:
   N.J.S.A. 2A:58-1 was repealed by P.L. 1999, c. 274, §4. See now N.J.S.A. 2A:
58-10 et seq.
   (I)   Other fees.
      (1)   Fire incident/investigation, EMS reports.
         (a)   An administrative fee shall be charged to any entity requesting
reproduction of a fire incident or fire investigative report, which is or is
not classified a public document under the New Jersey Open Public Records Act,
and shall be handled in accordance with OPRA regulations and fees.
         (b)   Exception. Any township resident or business owner will be
entitled to reproductions of any of the above referenced reports for incidents
in which they are directly involved, at no cost.
      (2)   Certificate of Fire Code status. As per Section 5:70-2.2(e)
(N.J.A.C. 5:70-2.2(e)) of the Uniform Fire Code, any request for a certificate
of Fire Code status shall be: $25.
      (3)   Returned check fees. Any returned check shall cost $35 or the
actual costs of recovery, whichever is higher.
      (4)   Fire watch. Any business required to provide a fire watch, who is
unable to perform them as defined by the policies of the Township Fire
Department, or requests the use of Fire Department personnel to perform the
fire watch, the cost shall be $85 per hour per firefighter assigned. At any
time the Fire Official shall determine the number of people required to perform
an adequate fire watch that conforms with the policies of the department.
      (5)   Exclusive fire safety training.
         (a)   Fire safety training beyond the normal scope and delivery of
fire safety programs administered by the Township Fire Department, that is
requested for the compliance with governmental regulation, including but not
limited to fire extinguisher, evacuation planning and hazardous materials
training shall be compensated at the rate of $150 per hour.
         (b)   The use of any props or consumables by the Fire Department in
any training provided shall be reimbursed by the requesting party at actual
costs, or costs as set forth by the Fire Department in advance.
      (6)   Civil court appearance and depositions. Any employee or volunteer
member of the Township Fire Department subpoenaed to testify in civil court or
at a deposition shall appear and compensation to the Township Fire Department
shall be made as follows: $150 per hour, with a minimum four-hour block and
$0.53 per mile plus tolls for distances exceeding 25 miles.
      (7)   Investigative conferences and meetings. Any uninterrupted one hour
conference at the Township Fire Department Stations, on site, or at a location
designated by the requestor shall be set forth as follows: $85 per hour.
      (8)   Hazardous materials.
         (a)   All expenditures for providing hazardous materials mitigation
supplied by the Township Fire Department will be the responsibility of the
entity responsible and/or the owner of the property. Such costs will be
itemized and reviewed by the Director of Emergency Services prior to the
invoice being sent to the responsible party and/or owner. The cost shall not
exceed the estimated cost of providing the service. Once an invoice is received
by an entity, payment shall be made in full within 60 days. Failure to pay
within 60 days will result in the responsible party being liable for a further
penalty upon conviction for nonpayment in Municipal Court. The penalty upon
conviction is $100 for each offense.
      (9)   Cost of suppression. If the origin and cause of a fire results from
a violation of the Uniform Fire Safety Act[3] previously cited by the Fire
Official or an employee designated to do so, the owner/occupant shall be
responsible for the cost of the fire suppression.
[3] Editor’s Note:
   See N.J.S.A. 52:27D-192 et seq.
      (10)   Site plan/subdivision plan reviews. All plan reviews shall be
subject to a fee of $100 for each review.
      (11)   After hours inspections.
         (a)   The regular business hours of the Fire Prevention Bureau are 8:
30 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. The
following fee schedule shall be implemented for after-hours inspections where
inspections are requested to be performed after regular business hours. The
Fire Official may dictate after hours inspections at his/her discretion in
order to inspect businesses who typically conduct a large portion of their
business after normal hours, to inspect the businesses under normal operating
conditions.
         (b)   Fees.
 
Hours        Amount
1 or less    $150
1 to 4 hours $300
4 to 8 hours $500
 
      (12)   Fire Department event stand-by (Fire or EMS).
         (a)   The Township Fire Department is the exclusive provider of fire
and EMS services for the township, any business required to provide a stand-by
for an event, or where a request for the use of Fire Department personnel to
stand-by, the cost shall be in accordance with the Fire Department stand-by fee
schedule as assigned with a minimum of four personnel for a fire apparatus and
a minimum of two personnel for an ambulance. All requests will be upon approval
by the Township Fire Department and upon their availability to fulfill the
request. Requests for an individual firefighter or EMT for an event shall be
approved on a case by case basis upon determination by the Fire Department.
         (b)   Any time a stand-by is required by the Fire Official as part of
a permit for an event, the Township Fire Department shall provide those
services at the fees set forth in their stand-by fee schedule. The use of
outside vendors or companies to provide fire or EMS services is prohibited.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.09 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES; FINES; OBSTRUCTION OF DUTIES.
   (A)   All violations and penalties pertaining to the Uniform Fire Code shall
be written, cited, and collected pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:70-2.12 and N.J.A.C. 5:
70-2.12A. No penalty shall be imposed except upon issuance of a written order
requiring abatement and the allowance of a reasonable specified period in which
to comply, unless a clear and evident notice of violation exist. Any person,
agent, firm or corporation who shall violate any provisions of this subchapter
or the Uniform Fire Code shall be subject to penalties. A separate offense may
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      (1)   The minimum penalties shall be as follows:
         (a)   First offense - $100 per violation and a dedicated penalty of
equal amount per violation.
         (b)   Second offense - $250 per violation.
         (c)   Third offense - $500 per violation.
      (2)   Nothing above shall in any way restrict the Fire Official from
assessing higher penalties based on the severity or reoccurrence of any
violation covered by this code.
   (B)   All other violations and fines pertaining to the Township Fire
Prevention Ordinance, this
Chapter 94, shall be written as a summons of civil action by a summary
proceeding under the Penalty Enforcement Law N.J.S.A. 2A:58-1 et seq. in the
Township Municipal Court. Unless otherwise specifically stated in this chapter
the following penalties and/or fines apply to any person who violates any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to any
combination of the following:
      (1)   A fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
      (2)   A term of imprisonment not exceeding 90 days.
      (3)   A period of community service not exceeding 90 days.
   (C)   Obstruction of duties. Any person, agent, firm or corporation that
obstructs or hinders or causes to obstruct or hinder the Fire Official or his/
her designee in the performance of their duties, shall be deemed to have caused
a clear and evident notice of violation and may be, at the discretion of the
Fire Official, immediately penalized and/or fined a maximum of $5,000 per
occurrence.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.10 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The permit fees to be charged by the Fire Official.
      (1)   As defined and required by the Uniform Fire Code, the fees for
permits issued shall be set forth in the following table.
      (2)   The following table outlines the permit fee schedule:
USER TYPE FEE
USER TYPE                     FEE
Type 1                        $100
Type 2                        $400
Type 2 Propane Exchange
   720 pounds or less      $166
   721 pounds or 2,500 poun$355
Type 3                        $600
Type 4                        $800
 
   (B)   Fees for permits may be waived for permits, at the direction of the
Fire Official, if they are in conjunction with a government function or
activity, for a bonafide non-profit entity, or as a portion of a regular
function of the business requesting the permit.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.11 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   Delinquent fees.
      (1)   All fees and registration forms must be returned to the Fire
Prevention Bureau within 30 days of having been mailed. Failure to respond
within this 30-day period will result in a default notice being sent by the
Fire Official. If the registration and fees are not returned within 15 days of
the default notice having been mailed, penalties will be imposed pursuant to
the Uniform Fire Code. Failure to pay the registration fee or any penalties
assessed shall result in a person being liable for a further penalty upon
conviction for nonpayment or nonregistration. The penalty upon conviction is
$100 for each offense.
      (2)   Collection of any unpaid fee or penalty shall be enforced through
the Township Municipal Court or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Authorization to bill and institute litigation for costs. The Fire
Chief or his/her designee is hereby authorized to bill and collect the costs
due from any person responsible for said costs and, where necessary, to direct
the Fire Department Solicitor to institute litigation for the recovery of such
costs.
      (1)   No relief of responsibility for ownership transfer. No property
owner shall be relieved of the responsibility for costs of fire suppression
arising under circumstances present during his/her ownership solely by reason
of the fact that he/she has transferred ownership of the property before or
after the fire giving rise to the costs.
      (2)   Additional actions and remedies. The remedies provided in this
section shall supplement any remedies available to the Fire Department by state
law or are cumulative as other township ordinances and shall not preclude the
Fire Department from taking any other action to recover costs associated with
fire suppression services and the mitigation and removal of dangerous and
hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.12 TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Storage or parking of internal combustion engine vehicle or equipment.
      (1)   General. No person shall store or park, or cause to store or park,
any internal combustion engine, vehicle or equipment (including but not limited
to: motorcycle, moped, dirt bike, lawnmower, weed trimmer, snow blower or any
such equipment) within or on any apartment or multifamily dwelling unit, porch,
balcony, covered patio, entrance, exit, common area, laundry room, basement or
mechanical room, or any other private area of an apartment or multifamily
dwelling.
      (2)   Exception: approved storage areas designated and constructed with
the required fire separation as required by the New Jersey Uniform Construction
Code in effect at the time of the building’s construction.
   (B)   Barbeques and Open Burning.
      (1)   Barbeques. No person shall operate, use or maintain any open fire
or any device commonly known as a “barbeque” in or on any apartment unit,
porch, balcony, patio or any other private area of an apartment or multiple-
family dwelling unit. The Fire Official may, upon application made, exempt any
person from the provisions of this section, provided that the request is made
in writing and the Fire Official certifies that the procedures are safe in
regard to fire protection and fire prevention standards, which standards are
incorporated into this code.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   This article applies to all outdoor burning and open burning in
the Township of Voorhees.
         (b)   This article does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
permanently installed and approved appliances.
         (c)   This article does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other approved and properly
installed heating device within a building used for human or animal habitation.
         (d)   This article does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in an approved device intended for heating,
construction, or maintenance activities, as such they are being utilized in
accordance with their intended purpose in a safe manner.
      (3)   Definitions. As used in this article, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:
         CAMPFIRE. A small outdoor fire intended for recreation or cooking, but
not including a fire intended for the disposal of waste wood or refuse.
         CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished, or
coated with a similar material; has not been pressure-treated with
preservatives; and does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other
composite wood products.
         CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Building waste materials, including
but not limited to waste shingles, insulation, lumber, treated wood, painted
wood, wiring, plastics, packaging, and rubble that results from construction,
remodeling repair, and demolition operation on a house, commercial or
industrial building, or other structure.
         FIRE OFFICIAL. The Fire Official for the Township of Voorhees, or
other person designated by the Fire Official.
         MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Voorhees.
         OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or chimney. This includes burning in a burn barrel.
         OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired
boiler or patio wood-burning unit.
         PATIO WOOD-BURNING UNIT. A Chiminea, patio warmer, outdoor fireplace
or other portable wood-burning device used for outdoor recreation and/or
heating.
         REFUSE. Any waste material, except trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves,
grass clippings, and other vegetative matter.
      (4)   General Prohibition. Open burning and outdoor burning are
prohibited in the Township of Voorhees unless the burning is specifically
permitted by this article.
      (5)   Open burning of refuse. Open burning of refuse is prohibited.
      (6)   Burning trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves, and grass clippings.
Open burning of trees, logs, brush, stumps, leaves and grass clippings is
prohibited.
      (7)   Outdoor wood-fired boilers. No person shall install, use, or
maintain an outdoor wood-fired boiler in the Township of Voorhees, unless
approved by permit through the construction official.
      (8)   Patio wood-burning units. A patio wood-burning unit may be
installed and used in the Township of Voorhees, only in accordance with all of
the following provisions.
         (a)   The patio wood-burning unit shall not be used to burn refuse.
         (b)   The patio wood-burning unit shall burn only clean, dry wood.
         (c)   The patio wood-burning unit shall be located at least 15 feet
from the nearest structure which is not on the same property as the patio wood-
burning unit. The unit shall not be located less than 10 feet from combustible
structures on the same property or on any decks, porches or balconies.
         (d)   The patio wood-burning unit and its by-products shall not cause
a nuisance to neighbors.
         (e)   It must be in an approved container with an ember-suppressing
lid. (Stone/block fire pits must have a lid or screen.)
         (f)   The use of flammable liquids and accelerants is prohibited.
         (g)   Trees, brush, grass, leaves, or other natural material is
prohibited.
         (h)   It must have a working garden hose stretched to the fire place
or an approved fire extinguisher within 10 feet.
      (9)   [Reserved.]
      (10)   Liability. A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire shall
be responsible for all fire-suppression costs and other liability resulting
from damage caused by the fire.
      (11)   Right of entry and inspection. The Fire Official, his/her designee
may inspect any property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the
provisions of this article.
      (12)   Enforcement; violations and penalties.
         (a)   The Fire Official, his/her designee and the Township of Voorhees
are authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
         (b)   The Fire Official, at any time and with just cause, has the
right to revoke a permit.
         (c)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
governmental entity who or which violates any of the provisions of this article
or fails to comply with a duly authorized order issued pursuant to this article
shall be deemed responsible for a municipal civil infraction, which shall be
punishable by a civil fine of no less than $50.00 and no more than $100.00.
         (d)   The violator shall pay costs, which may include all expenses,
direct and indirect, which the Township of Voorhees has incurred in connection
with the municipal infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than
$50.00 or more than $100.00 be ordered. In addition the Township of Voorhees
shall have the right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
purpose of obtaining an injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate
remedy to compel compliance with this article. Each day that a violation of
this article exists shall constitute a separate violation of this article.
   (C)   Insurance reports for fire-damaged buildings; time limit.
      (1)   All Owners, lessees or tenants of any building or structure damaged
by fire and subjected to assistance from the Fire Department in the Township of
Voorhees shall report to said Fire Department the name and address of the fire
insurance carrier, the name and address of the insurance agent on such policy
and the policy limits of coverage. This information shall be supplied to the
Fire Official within five days of the date of the fire in question.
   (D)   Fire Hydrants.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to obscure from view, damage, deface, obstruct
or restrict the access to any fire hydrant or any fire department connection
for the pressurization of fire suppression systems, including fire hydrants
that are located on private streets and access lanes or on private property.
The clear space shall be defined as a minimum of 3' in any direction of a fire
hydrant or fire department connection, or as defined and requested by the Fire
Official for efficient access. The Fire Official or his designee may assess,
levy and collect penalties and or fines to ensure compliance. If the
obstructions or encroachments are not removed, the Fire Official shall proceed
to remove the same. Costs incurred in the performance of necessary work shall
be paid from the Township of Voorhees on certificate of the Fire Official and
with the Approval of Township Committee; and the Township shall institute
appropriate action for the recovery of such costs.
      (2)   [Reserved.]
      (3)   No person shall tamper with, connect to, turn on, adjust, damage or
attempt to tamper with, connect to, open, turn on or adjust any fire hydrant
owned by or connected to the Township water system. Authorization must be
received by the Fire Chief, or authorized representative of the Township of
Voorhees and NJ American Water to access any hydrant in the Township.
      (4)   Fire Hydrants shall be of the size and type as designated by the
Fire Official.
      (5)   The current minimum standard for hydrants in the Township of
Voorhees shall be Mueller Super Centurion model with two (2) 2 ½" National
Standard Thread Side Caps, and one (1) 5" Storz front main steamer connection.
If the water available at the installation location is greater than the output
of the hydrant specified, the Fire Official or his/her designee may specify a
hydrant with additional outputs to allow maximum use of available water supply.
      (6)   All existing private hydrants must be brought in compliance with
this standard upon annual inspection of the premises.
      (7)   All existing NJ American Water hydrants shall be requested to meet
this standard as quickly as reasonably possible, upon a schedule approved by
the Fire Official.
   (E)   Rapid Entry Key Systems.
      (1)   All Buildings with an automatic fire alarm or sprinkler system or
with roll down shutters or grates are required to have a rapid access key box
installed at the expense of the owner or occupant of the structure, in an
accessible location to be approved by the Fire Official, or his/her designee.
The key box shall be a type approved by the Fire Official and shall be
installed in a manner approved by the Fire Official or his/her designee. The
key box needs to be of a size necessary to meet the needs of the building or
complex and shall contain the following pertinent items:
         (a)   Updated keys necessary for access to all points of the premises.
         (b)   Keys to all fire alarm control panels, keys necessary to operate
or service fire alarm panels and keys necessary to operate or service fire
protection systems.
         (c)   Electronic Key Cards.
         (d)   Access codes for doors and fire alarm/protection systems.
         (e)   Elevator and Emergency information.
         (f)   Floor Plans.
         (g)   Any other pertinent information which may be needed in an
emergency or as required by the Fire Chief or Fire Official.
      (2)   Complexes containing multiple buildings shall have a key box
installed on each building unless otherwise approved in writing by the Fire
Official, which said waiver may be revoked at any time for improved access by
the Fire Department. The Fire Official may at his/her discretion grant a waiver
to the key box requirement for buildings open and appropriately staffed 24
hours per day.
      (3)   Access to key boxes shall only be available to authorized emergency
personnel and only by the master key. A key inventory shall be maintained by
the Voorhees Township Fire Department at least annually to ensure all keys are
maintained appropriately.
      (4)   Any building owner or occupant who fails to install a key box in
violation of this chapter, after receiving due notice from the Fire Official,
or his/her designee, will be issued a penalty of not less than $100.00. If the
violation remains unabated after 30 days from the date that the original
violation is issued, a daily penalty of $100.00 will be imposed for each day
thereafter that the violation remains unabated.
      (5)   In the event of an emergency, or the absence of necessary keys, the
Voorhees Township Fire Department or such Departments with Mutual Aid
Agreements established shall not be liable for damages incurred in the access
of such properties.
   (F)   Fire Watch.
      (1)   A Fire watch. For this purpose of this chapter, the term “fire
watch” shall mean a person assigned to be in an area for the express purpose of
notifying the Fire Department of an emergency, preventing a fire from
occurring, extinguishing small fires, or protecting the public from fire or
life safety dangers addressed in this chapter.
      (2)   A Fire watch shall be ordered when at any time a building or
portion thereof protected by a fire alarm or fire suppression system, has a
reduction in the amount of protection normally provided for the building or
portion thereof. A fire watch may also be ordered at any time at the discretion
of the Fire Official when the safety of occupants in believed to be in an above
normal risk of fire or life safety dangers.
      (3)   A Fire watch shall be performed by a person appropriately trained
and competent to handle the assigned fire watch, and complete all required
documentation in accordance with paperwork and policy to be obtained from the
Fire Official or his/her designee.
      (4)   In the event the occupant/ owner are unable to adequately perform
the functions of fire watch to the satisfaction of the Fire Official or his/her
designee. A member of the Fire Department shall be assigned to the function at
a fee set forth in section §
94.08.
      (5)   A Fire watch may only be terminated with permission of the Fire
Official or his/her designee. This is typically only once all prior fire
protection has been restored and the building or a portion thereof is declared
safe for normal operations.
   (G)   Signs, Labeling and Identification.
      (1)   All doorway entrances shall have printed thereon, in block letters
at least three inches high, and approximately six inches from the top of the
doorway, in conspicuously contrasting colors, the name of the commercial
establishment located therein; provided however, that there shall be exempt
from this requirement such main entrance(s) as are otherwise conspicuously and
clearly marked with the identity of the commercial establishment located
therein. It is the intent of this provision that emergency personnel arriving
at the scene of a fire or other emergency have immediate identification of
access routes to commercial occupancies located in a particular commercial
building or buildings. This shall include the rear entrances to all occupancies
as well, inclusive of those for employees only.
      (2)   All occupancies with multiple occupants or business suites shall
clearly identify all tenants within said space at all times. For residential
and commercial properties this may be accomplished by identifying suite or
apartment numbers and or letters.
      (3)   All buildings containing a Fire Department Connection, shall have
signs posted that are RED on WHITE, retroreflective and that meet the
requirements of the Voorhees Township Fire Prevention Bureau policies on FDC
signage, subject at all times to final approval of the Fire Official.
      (4)   All buildings containing Solar Panels shall have approved signage
clearly posted, subject at all times to the approval of the Fire Official.
      (5)   At all times the Fire Official or his/her designee may require
additional signage in order to improve the access by the Fire Department to all
properties and any associated building features including but not limited to:
Fire Lanes, Roof Access, Alarm Panels, Fire Equipment Rooms, HVAC units,
Utility Meters, Elevator Rooms, Mechanical Spaces, Solar Panels, etc.
   (H)   Fire Lanes (see
Chapter 75: Parking Schedules,
Schedule V: Fire Zones). The Voorhees Township Fire Department Fire Prevention
Bureau shall have Concurrent Jurisdiction with the Voorhees Township Police
Department for the enforcement of Fire Lanes in the same manner and in
accordance with
Chapter 75 of the Voorhees Township Municipal Code.
   (I)   Nuisance Alarms (see
Chapter 100: Alarms). The Voorhees Township Fire Department shall enforce
Nuisance Fire Alarms and Carbon Monoxide Alarms in the same manner and in
accordance with
Chapter 100 of the Voorhees Township Municipal Code.
   (J)   FEE SCHEDULE:
      (1)   Business.
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION ANNUAL FEE
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                                ANNUAL FEE
B1        Business Establishments having a gross floor area of 500   $75.00
          square feet or less
B2        Business Establishments having a gross floor area of 501   $125.00
          square feet or more but less than 3500 square feet
B3        Business Establishments having a gross floor area of 3501  $175.00
          square feet or more but less than 7500 square feet
B4        Business Establishments having a gross floor area of 7501  $225.00
          square feet or more but less than 12,000 square feet
          Business Establishments having a gross floor area of
B5        12,001 square feet or more but less than 24,000 square     $375.00
          feet
          Business Establishments having a gross floor area of
B6        24,001 square feet or more but less than 48,000 square     $550.00
          feet
B7        Business Establishments having a gross floor area of       $900.00
          48,001 square feet or more
          Business/Multi. Multiple business occupancy shall include
          all buildings and structures or parts thereof which are
          used for the purposes that meet the requirements of use
          group B and which comprise a multiplicity of rooms, suites
          or areas to accommodate multiple business occupancies, not
          to exceed 30 in number, which are rented from a common
B8        owner. The owner, who shall control access to all areas,   $500.00
          shall provide basic services as are needed for the tenants
          to conduct their business, at their option. These services
          may include but are not limited to clerical, phone
          answering, and message taking, photocopying and
          reproduction, mail services, security and secretarial and
          stenographers.
 
      (2)   Mercantile.
 
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                                ANNUAL FEE
M1        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of 500 $75.00
          square feet or less
M2        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of 501 $125.00
          square feet or more but less than 3500 square feet
M3        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of     $200.00
          3501 square feet or more but less than 7500 square feet
M4        Mercantile establishments having a gross floor area of     $250.00
          7501 square feet or more but less than 12,000 square feet
 
      (3)   Factory.
 
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                               ANNUAL FEE
F1        Factories having a gross floor area of less than 12,000   $350.00
          square feet
F2        Factories having a gross floor area of 12,001 square feet $550.00
          or more but less than 24,000 square feet
F3        Factories having a gross floor area of 24,001 square feet $800.00
          or more but less than 48,000 square feet
F4        Factories having a gross floor area of 48,001 square feet $1,000.00
          or more.
 
      (4)   Storage.
 
USE GROUP DESCRIPTION                                               ANNUAL FEE
S1        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of less $225.00
          than 3500 square feet
S2        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of 3501 $350.00
          square feet or more but less than 7500 square feet
S3        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of 7501 $450.00
          square feet or more but less than 12,000 square feet
          Building used for storage with a gross floor area of
S4        12,001 square feet or more but less than 24,000 square    $550.00
          feet
          Building used for storage with a gross floor area of
S5        24,001 square feet or more but less than 48,000 square    $750.00
          feet
S6        Building used for storage with a gross floor area of      $1,000.00
          48,001 square feet or more
 
      (5)   Residential.
 
R1 Apartments and Condominiums (common areas only) $15.00/unit
 
   Certificate of Fire Code status shall be: $25.00.
   Returned Check Fees: Thirty Five Dollars, ($35.00) or the actual costs of
recovery, whichever is higher.
   Fire Watch: eighty-five dollars ($85.00/hour/ff) per hour per firefighter
assigned.
   Exclusive Fire Safety Training: One Hundred and Fifty Dollars $150.00 per
hour.
   Civil Court Appearance and Depositions: $150.00 per hour, with a minimum
four-hour block and 53 cents per mile plus tolls for distances exceeding 25
miles.
   Investigative Conferences and Meetings: $85.00 per hour.
   Site Plan / Subdivision Plan Reviews: $100.00 for each review.
   After Hours Inspections:
 
Hours        Amount
1 or less    $150
1 to 4 hours $300
4 to 8 hours $500
 
   The minimum penalties shall be as follows:
      (a)   [Reserved.]
      (b)   First Offense - $100.00 per violation and a Dedicated Penalty of
Equal Amount per violation.
      (c)   Second Offense - $250.00 per violation.
       (d)   Third Offense - $500.00 per violation.
   Permit Fees:
USER TYPE FEE
USER TYPE                     FEE
Type 1                        $100
Type 2                        $400
Type 2 Propane Exchange        
   720 pounds or less      $166
   721 pounds or 2,500 poun$355
Type 3                        $600
Type 4                        $800
 
   Delinquent Fees: $100.00 per violation, per occurrence.
   Failure to Install Knox Box: $100.00.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 94.25 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PROVIDED.
   The township provides emergency medical services (EMS) to citizens and
visitors to the township and to other communities through mutual aid to the
extent that services are available. Emergency medical services are provided by
employees of the township, Department of Fire, Division of EMS.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.26 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIANS.
   All EMS providers shall:
   (A)   Meet all New Jersey Civil Service Commission Rules and Regulations
(NJCSC).
   (B)   Job specification under NJCSC.
   (C)   Township employee hiring policies and procedures.
   (D)   Background check.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.27 ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITIONS.
   The Division of Emergency Medical Services will consist of paid personnel.
The career staff will consist of supervising emergency medical technicians, as
well as additional full-time emergency medical technicians, part-time emergency
medical technicians, and as needed emergency medical technicians, all of which
shall be appointed in accordance with established personnel policies governing
paid employees of the township.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.28 NO DENIAL OR DELAY OF SERVICE.
   All persons needing EMS shall be served to the extent that services are
available without discrimination on any basis and without respect to residency,
ability to pay, or any other factor. There shall be no denial of services or
delay in providing available service due to EMS cost recovery procedures.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.29 ALLOCATIONS OF COST.
   The costs of providing available personnel and service for EMS shall be
covered by a combination of:
   (A)   Municipal budget appropriations;
   (B)   Insurance payments for service to persons who have insurance coverage;
and
   (C)   Direct payments from persons served for amounts not covered by
insurance.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.30 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE RECORDS.
   EMS personnel shall maintain accurate records of all EMS services provided
on an approved patient care reporting system (PCR) by the township. Said
records shall include pertinent information required for insurance purposes and
shall identify the complete name, mailing address, incident location and
telephone numbers of all persons requesting and receiving EMS services subject
to New Jersey Office of Emergency Medical Services (NJOEMS) applicable laws.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
§ 94.31 FEES FOR MEDICAL SERVICE AND BILLINGS.
   (A)   The charge for rendering ambulance services to an individual or
parties be:
Service Fee
Service                            Fee
Basic life support                 $800
Basic life support per mileage     $15
Oxygen administration              $55
Narcan administration              $100
EPI pen administration             $150
Disposable cervical collar         $25
CPAP administration                $100
Bariatric stretcher components     $200 (pt weighing over 450 lbs.)
Automatic defibrillator (AED) pads $150
Spinal immobilization              $150
Event stand-by (in Voorhees Twp.)  $220 per hr. (includes 2 EMTs and 1 BLS
                                   ambulance)
Refusal of transport (treatment    $100
rendered)
 
   (B)   If the individual and/or parties utilizing ambulance services is/are
covered by Medicaid or Medicare, then those fees established under those
programs shall be accepted. In no instance, shall those individuals and/or
parties be charged a rate higher than established by division (A) above.
   (C)   Outstanding fees due to the township that have not been satisfactorily
resolved within nine months from the date the service was rendered may be
turned over to a third-party collection agency on the approval of the Township
Committee.
(Ord. 312-17, passed 12-27-17)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Findings and purpose
   
95.03   Terminology; definitions
   
95.04   Emergency exception
Noise Prohibitions
   
95.15   Loud, excessive noises prohibited
   
95.16   Prohibitions enumerated
   
95.17   Maximum permissible levels by land use
   
95.18   Motor vehicle noise levels
   
95.19   Land use and construction
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.30   Noise control enforcement officers
   
95.31   Departmental programs and cooperation
   
95.32   Issuance of permits
   
95.33   Exemption for time to comply
   
95.34   Review and revision of standards
   
95.35   Contractual agreements
   
95.36   Remedies
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Noise Ordinance of the Township of
Voorhees.”
('74 Code, § 89-1) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.02 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   Whereas excessive sound and vibration are detrimental to the public health
and welfare and the quality of life, a substantial body of science and
technology exists by which excessive sound and vibration may be substantially
abated and the people have a right to and should be ensured of an environment
free from excessive sound and vibration that may jeopardize their health,
welfare or safety or degrade the quality of life, therefore it is the policy of
the township to prevent excessive sound and vibration which may jeopardize the
health, welfare or safety of its citizens or degrade the quality of life.
('74 Code, § 89-2) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.03 TERMINOLOGY; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
terminology used in this chapter and not defined below shall be in conformance
with applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) or its successor body.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The sound pressure level of the all encompassing noise
associated with a given environment, being usually a composite of sounds from
many sources.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure level as measured on a
sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read shall be
designated dB(A) or dBA.
   CONTINUOUS NOISE. A steady, fluctuating or impact noise which exists
essentially without interruption for a period of one hour or more.
   CYCLICALLY VARYING NOISE. Steady, fluctuating or impulsive noise which may
or may not contain a pure tone and which varies in sound pressure level such
that the same level is obtained repetitively at reasonably uniform intervals of
time.
   DECIBEL. A logarithmic (dimensionless) unit of measure often used in
describing the amplitude of sound. DECIBEL is denoted as dB.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Health or any municipal agency related
to the noise control programs such as the Board of Health, the Community
Development Department and the Police Department.
   DEVICE. Any mechanism which is intended to produce or which actually
produces noise when operated or handled.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used in response to a public calamity or
to protect persons or property from imminent danger.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity, work to restore public utilities or work required
to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
   FLUCTUATING NOISE. When the sound pressure level of a fluctuating noise
varies more than 6 dB(A) during the period of observation, when measured with
the slow-meter characteristic of a sound level meter, and does not equal the
previously existing ambient noise level more than once during the period of
observation.
   IMPULSIVE NOISE. A noise characterized by brief excursions of sound pressure
whose peak levels exceed the ambience by 10 dB. The duration of a single
impulse is usually less than one second and requires the use of a sound level
meter specially adapted for its measurement.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in the Motor Vehicle Code of the state or any
vehicles which are propelled or drawn by mechanical equipment, such as, but not
limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semitrailers, campers,
motorcycles, minibikes, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft on land, dune
buggies or racing vehicles.
   MUFFLER. Any apparatus whose primary purpose is to transmit liquids or gases
while causing a reduction in sound emission at one end.
   NOISE. Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse physiological or psychological effect on human beings.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which annoys, disturbs or perturbs reasonable
persons with normal sensitivities or any sound which injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, hearing, peace or safety of other persons.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, public or
private.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE. Any noise for which the information content of that
noise is unambiguously communicated to the listener, such as, but not limited
to, understandable spoken speech or comprehensible musical rhythms.
   POWERED MODEL VEHICLES. Any powered vehicles, either airborne, waterborne or
landborne, which are designed not to carry persons or property, such as, but
not limited to, model airplanes, boats, cars, rockets and which can be
propelled by mechanical means.
   PROPERTY BOUNDARY. An imaginary line at the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from that
owned by another person.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY and PUBLIC SPACE. Any street, avenue, boulevard,
highway, alley or public space which is owned or controlled by a public
government entity.
   PURE TONE. Any noise which can be distinctly heard as a single pitch or a
set of single pitches. For the purposes of measurement, a “pure tone” shall
exist if the one-third octave band sound-pressure level in the band with the
tone exceeds the arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two
contiguous one-third octave bands by 5 dB for frequencies of 500 hertz and
above by 8 dB for frequencies between 160 and 400 hertz and 15 dB for
frequencies less than or equal to 125 hertz.
   REPETITIVE IMPULSIVE NOISE. Repetitive noise which is composed of impulsive
noises that are repeated at sufficiently slow rates such that a sound level
meter set at a fast-meter characteristic will show changes in sound pressure
level greater than 2 dB(A).
   RMS SOUND PRESSURE. The square root of the time averaged square of the sound
pressure, denoted Prms.
   SOUND. A temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, or other physical
quantity, in a medium with internal forces, that causes compression and
rarefaction of that medium and which propagates at finite speed to distant
points.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector and integrator or time averager, output meter and weighting networks,
used to measure these sound pressure fluctuations. For enforcement of this
chapter, the “sound level meter” (Model 215-4512 AM) of Quest Electronics,
Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, shall be used unless the Noise Control Officer otherwise
approves usage of any other “sound level meter.”
   SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio
of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure which shall be 20
micropascals, denoted Lp or SPL.
   STATIONARY EMERGENCY SIGNALING DEVICES. Any device, excluding those attached
to motor vehicles, used to alert persons engaged in emergency operations. These
include, but are not limited to, fire fighters, first-aid squad members and law
enforcement officers, whether paid or volunteer.
   STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE. Any device, fixed or movable, which is located or
used or geographically defined, real property other than a public right-of-way.
   STEADY NOISE. A sound pressure level which remains essentially constant
during the period of observation, i.e., the fluctuations are too small to meet
the criterion for fluctuating noise.
   VIBRATION. A temporal spatial oscillation of displacement, velocity or
acceleration in a solid material.
   WEEKDAY. Any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday which is not a
legal holiday.
('74 Code, § 89-3) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.04 EMERGENCY EXCEPTION.
   Noise caused in the performance of emergency work for the immediate safety,
health or welfare of the community or individuals of the community or to
restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity shall not be
subject to the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to permit law enforcement, ambulance, fire or other emergency
personnel to make excessive noise in the performance of their duties when such
noise is clearly unnecessary. The use of stationary emergency signaling devices
shall be for emergency use only.
('74 Code, § 89-12) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
NOISE PROHIBITIONS
§ 95.15 LOUD, EXCESSIVE NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive or unusually loud noise or to create a noise
disturbance within the limits of the Township except as provided in this
chapter.
('74 Code, § 89-10) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.16 PROHIBITIONS ENUMERATED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing or
excessive noise in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any motor vehicle on any public right-of-way, except as a danger
warning signal or as provided in the Vehicle Code of the State of New Jersey.
   (B)   Radios, television sets and similar devices.
      (1)   Operating or permitting the use or operation of any radio receiving
set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound, except as provided for in division (C)
below, in such a manner as to cause noise disturbance.
      (2)   Operating any such device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and the
following 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible across real
property boundaries or through partitions common to two parties within a
building or plainly audible at 50 feet from such device when operated within a
motor vehicle parked on a public right-of-way or on a public space.
   (C)   Exterior loudspeakers. Using or operating any mechanical device or
loudspeaker in a fixed or movable position exterior to any building or mounted
upon any aircraft or motor vehicle such that the sound therefrom is plainly
audible at or beyond the property boundary of the source or on a public way,
except as provided for in §§
95.04,
95.32 and
95.33.
   (D)   Street sales. Selling anything by shouting or by outcry within any
area of the Township zoned primarily for residential uses, except by permit.
   (E)   Animals. Owning, keeping, possessing or harboring any fowl or animal
for a continued duration which, by frequent or habitual howling, barking,
meowing, squawking or other noisemaking, causes a noise disturbance across a
residential property boundary. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to all private or public facilities, including any animal pounds which hold
animals for veterinary medical treatment.
   (F)   Loading operations. Loading, unloading, opening or otherwise handling
boxes, crates, containers, garbage cans or otherwise similar objects between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day in such a manner as to
cause a noise disturbance.
   (G)   Construction noise. Operating or causing to be operated any equipment
used in commercial construction, repair, alteration or demolition work on
buildings, structures, streets, alleys or appurtenances thereto, in residential
or commercial land use categories, with sound control devices that would
constitute tampering or operation in any other manner in violation of any
regulation of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day on weekdays and between 10:
00 p.m. Friday night and 9:00 a.m. Saturday morning, Sunday morning and legal
holidays (except by permit).
   (H)   Impulsive sources. The use of explosives or the firing of guns or
other explosive devices without first obtaining a permit, as required by §§
95.32 and
95.33.
   (I)   Motor vehicle racing events. Operating or permitting the operation of
any motor vehicle racing event at any place except an authorized track and in a
manner approved by the Township Committee to minimize noise disturbance.
   (J)   Powered model vehicles. Operating or permitting the operation of
powered model vehicles between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the
following morning. Maximum sound pressure levels during the permitted period of
operation shall conform to those set forth in Table 1 of §
95.17 and shall be measured at the property boundary of the source or at a
distance of 100 feet if it is operated in a public place.
   (K)   Refuse-compacting vehicles. The operating or permitting to be operated
of any motor vehicle which can compact refuse and which creates, during the
compacting cycle, a sound pressure level in excess of 94 dB(A) when measured at
50 feet from any point of the vehicle or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. the following day (in residential use districts).
   (L)   Quiet zones. Creating any unnecessary or unusually loud noise within
the quiet zone of any school, library, hospital, nursing home, court or other
designated area where exceptional quiet is necessary, while the same are in
use, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in adjacent or contiguous
streets indicating that the same is a quiet zone.
   (M)   Power equipment. Operating or permitting to be operated any powered
saw, sander, drill, grinder, garden equipment or tools of like nature, used
primarily for domestic purposes, outdoors in residential zones between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day.
   (N)   Stationary emergency signaling devices.
      (1)   Testing of only the electromechanical functioning of a stationary
emergency signaling device shall occur at the same time each day that a test is
performed, but not before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. Any such testing shall
only use the minimum cycle test time. In no cases shall such test time exceed
ten seconds.
      (2)   Testing of the complete emergency signaling system, including the
electromechanical functioning of the signaling device and the personnel
response to the signal, shall not occur more than once each calendar month.
Such testing shall not occur before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. The ten-second
time limit on the electromechanical functioning of the signaling device shall
not apply to such system testing.
      (3)   Stationary emergency signaling devices shall be used only for
testing in compliance with applicable provisions of this chapter and for
emergency purposes where personnel and equipment are mobilized.
('74 Code, § 89-11) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.17 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE LEVELS BY LAND USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be
operated any stationary source of noise in such a manner as to create a sound
pressure level which exceeds the limits set forth for the receiving land use
(land use category) in Table I when measured at the property boundary. When a
noise source can be identified and its noise measured in more than one land use
category, the limits of the most restrictive use shall apply at the boundaries
between the different land use categories.
TABLE I
                              Sound Pressure
Receiving Land                          Level Limit
Use Category               Time                [db(A)]
Residential,               7 a.m. - 10 p.m.      65
open space,               10 p.m. - 7 a.m.      50
agricultural,
or institutional
Commercial               At all times         65
or business
Industrial or               At all times         75
manufacturing
('74 Code, § 89-15)
   (B)   For any stationary source of noise which emits a pure tone, a
cyclically varying noise or repetitive impulsive noise, the limits set forth
above in this section shall be reduced by 5 dB(A).
   (C)   Notwithstanding compliance with division (B) of this section, it shall
be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated any stationary
source of noise which emits a pure tone, cyclically varying noise or repetitive
impulsive noise which creates a noise disturbance.
('74 Code, § 89-16)
(Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.18 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE LEVELS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on a public right-of-way at
any time in such manner that the sound pressure level emitted by said vehicle
exceeds the levels set forth in Table II when measured at the location
established by division (B) below. No person shall knowingly create an
excessive noise as described in this chapter by operating a motor vehicle
without a muffler or a sound-dissipation device on a public right-of-way at any
time.
TABLE II
                     Sound Pressure Level*
                        [dB(A)]
                         Speed Limit
                        35 mph 35 mph
Vehicle Class                      or Less or More
All motor vehicles with               86 90
a manufacturer's gross
vehicle rating of 10,000
pounds or more, and any
combination of vehicles
towed by such motor
vehicle
Any motorcycle                  82 86
Any other motor vehicle               76 82
and any combination of
vehicles towed by such
motor vehicle
* Note: Levels must be the same as the Federal Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   For the purpose of division (A), the standard measurement height shall
be four feet (1.2 meters) and the standard horizontal measurement distance from
the center line of the traffic lane being monitored shall be 50 feet (15
meters). Whenever it is not feasible to use 50 feet, the distance may be
shortened to 25 feet (7.5 meters), in which case the values in Table II of
division (A) above shall be increased by 6 dB(A).
('74 Code, § 89-17)
   (C)   No person shall operate a power-propelled vehicle or recreational
device off a public right-of-way in such a manner that the sound pressure level
emitted therefrom exceeds the limits set forth in Table III when measured at a
distance of 50 feet. This section shall apply to all motorized vehicles and
recreational devices, whether publicly or privately owned or whether or not
duly registered or licensed.
TABLE III
                           Sound Pressure Level
Vehicle Class   [dB(A)]
All motor vehicles                     86
('74 Code, § 89-18) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.19 LAND USE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Approval for commercial or industrial land use. No new commercial or
industrial construction shall be approved unless it can be shown that the
construction will meet §
95.17 of this chapter for land use categories existing at the time of
construction.
('74 Code, § 89-19)
   (B)   Approval for roadway construction. No new road construction or
modifications to existing roads will be approved unless the construction
operations are in compliance with the provisions of §
95.16(G) of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 89-20)
   (C)   Zoning changes; restrictions. No zoning change, adjustment, variance
or exception which affects the land use categories will be permitted unless the
use to be allowed will not violate the provisions of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 89-21)
(Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
Penalty, see § 95.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.30 NOISE CONTROL ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The noise control program required by this chapter shall be administered by
the County Department of Health Noise Control Officer. The County Noise Control
Officer shall have overall responsibility to coordinate, implement and enforce
this chapter. In addition, sanitary inspectors, police officers, building
inspectors and zoning officers are also delegated by the Township Committee to
enforce this chapter in their respective job-related capacities.
('74 Code, § 89-4) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.31 DEPARTMENTAL PROGRAMS AND COOPERATION.
   (A)   All departments shall, to the fullest extent consistent with their
authorities under other ordinances administered by law, carry out their
programs in such a manner as to further the policy stated in §
95.02 of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 89-5)
   (B)   All departments shall cooperate with the Noise Control Officer to the
fullest extent in enforcing the noise regulations of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 89-6)
   (C)   Each department, whose duty it is to review and approve new projects
or changes to existing projects that result or may result in the emission of
noise, shall consult with the Noise Control Officer prior to any such approval.
('74 Code, § 89-7)
(Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.32 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Noise Control Officer is authorized to grant permits as required by any
provision of this chapter, subject to such limitations as to area, noise
levels, time limits and other terms and conditions as he determines are
appropriate to protect public health, safety and welfare from the noise
emanating therefrom. This section shall in no way effect the duty to obtain any
other permit or license required by law for such activities.
('74 Code, § 89-13) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.33 EXEMPTION FOR TIME TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Upon good cause shown by the owner of any noise source, the Township
Committee or the County Noise Control Officer of the County Department of
Health shall have the power to grant an exemption from the operation of this
chapter in order to allow sufficient time for installation of needed control
equipment, facilities or modifications to achieve compliance, not to exceed ten
days, provided that such exemption may be renewed as necessary, but only if
satisfactory progress toward compliance is shown.
   (B)   Any person seeking an exemption shall file a petition with the Noise
Control Officer. The Noise Control Officer shall promptly give written notice
of such petition to any person who has, in writing, requested notice of such
exemption petitions and shall publish notice of such petition in a newspaper of
general circulation within this municipality. The Noise Control Officer shall
promptly investigate such petition and shall consider the views of all persons
who might be adversely affected by the grant of an exemption. If the Noise
Control Officer, in his discretion, concludes that a hearing would be advisable
or if any person files a written request for a hearing or written objection to
the grant of such exemption within 15 days of the notice provided herein, a
hearing shall be held on the petition. A tape recording shall be kept of any
such hearing, such tape recordings to be kept in the custody of the Noise
Control Officer.
   (C)   In granting or denying an exemption, the Township Committee or the
County Noise Control Officer of the County Department of Health shall appoint a
review body to hear the case. This body shall then file and publish a written
order, stating the facts and reasons leading to its decision.
('74 Code, § 89-14) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.34 REVIEW AND REVISION OF STANDARDS.
   If at any time the County Noise Control Officer has reason to believe that a
county standard, regulation or action of any department regarding noise does
not conform to the intent of §
95.02 of this chapter, he may request such department to consult with him on
the advisability of revising such standards or regulations to conform.
('74 Code, § 89-8) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.35 CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENTS.
   Any written agreement, purchase order or instrument whereby the Township is
committed to the expenditure of funds in return for goods or services, or both,
shall not be entered into unless such agreement, purchase order or instrument
contains provisions requiring that any equipment or activities which are
subject to the provisions of this chapter will be operated or conducted without
causing violation of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 89-9) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.36 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The operation or maintenance of any noise source in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed and is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or
injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or in any other manner
available for the abatement of public nuisances.
   (B)   Any remedy available pursuant to this chapter shall be considered
separate and not exclusive of any other remedy available hereunder.
('74 Code, § 89-23) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation which shall be found guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter shall, for each offense, be fined a sum of not more
than $500 and not less than $10. Every day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
('74 Code, § 89-22) (Ord. 259-1985, passed 1-14-85)
CHAPTER 96: PARKING AREA MAINTENANCE
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Required maintenance
   
96.04   Interpretation of provisions
   
96.05   Enforcement
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The township, believing that certain action is reasonably required to
preserve and safeguard the public health, safety, welfare and morals, and being
desirous of providing for the cleanliness, maintenance and preservation of
parking areas and other areas provided for or acquired in connection with any
subject premises, does hereby enact this chapter regulating the use and
maintenance of parking areas, accessory areas or other open space used in
connection therewith.
('74 Code, § 95-1) (Ord. 92-1979, passed 5-29-79)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY AREAS. Any buffer zones, setbacks, side and rear yards or other
areas, whether surfaced or natural, or any space used in connection with the
subject premises.
   GARBAGE. Any material, goods, wares, merchandise, ingredients, parts or by-
products thereof which are sold, offered for sale, manufactured, processed,
repaired or assembled by business or commercial firms or private individuals,
which have been discarded and contain waste matter from any animal, fish, fowl,
fruit or vegetable matter resulting from said use, storage and growth of food,
garden and tree fruits and vegetables; yard trimmings (properly packed grass,
small tree branches, cuttings from shrubs, brush or hedges and leaves), tin,
glass or other food containers, discarded combustible and noncombustible waste
materials, soil, ashes, residue from combustible materials, newspapers, paper,
rags, cartons, boxes, excelsior, straw, rubber, leather, metals, mineral
matter, crockery, dust and sweepings from buildings.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A covered container which is rodent-, varmint- and
insectproof.
   INVITEE. Any employee, visitor, customer or any other person upon a subject
premises, whether invited or not, directly or indirectly.
   PARKING AREA. Space provided for the parking of a vehicle, together with the
means of ingress and egress thereto and the roads and driveways of any subject
premises.
   SUBJECT PREMISES. Any premises which contain, in whole or in part, any
parking area servicing any industrial, commercial, professional, educational or
entertainment with a recreational use; or any premises which contain, in whole
or in part, any parking area in conjunction with apartments or other multiple-
dwelling units; or any premises which contain, in whole or in part, any parking
area servicing any area regularly used for purposes or functions to which the
general public is invited, directly or indirectly; the ingress and egress
thereto; roads and driveways therein; buffer zones; setbacks or other open
space in connection with any of the above-described uses; or any other open
areas provided for in connection with the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, variance or conditional use permit which is required pursuant to the
zoning code of the township or any law applicable to such premises or use
thereof.
   TRASH CONTAINER. A container with a swing cover to receive hand-carried
discarded paper and trash.
   USER. Any owner, tenant, trustee, receiver, administrator or other person
who controls, in whole or in part, any subject premises.
('74 Code, § 95-2) (Ord. 92-1979, passed 5-29-79)
§ 96.03 REQUIRED MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any user of a subject premises to fail to comply
with the following:
   (A)   Keep the same free and clear of dirt, debris, garbage and other
obstructions and to keep the same properly repaired and maintained.
   (B)   Keep all roads, driveways and means of ingress and egress free of snow
and ice.
   (C)   Keep parking areas sufficiently clear of snow so as to permit proper
use of the parking area.
   (D)   Keep all water drains and water drainage systems for said parking area
driveways and roads therein clean and in good working order.
   (E)   Provide sufficient off-street parking spaces. In determining whether
sufficient parking spaces have been provided, consideration shall be given to
the necessity of providing additional areas for passageways, driveways and
turning which shall be furnished and trees which may be necessary. All such
spaces shall be deemed to be required spaces on the lot on which they are
situated and shall not be encroached upon or reduced in any manner. All parking
spaces with additional passageways, driveways and turning areas, except when
provided in connection with one-family residences, shall be surfaced with a
dustless, durable, all-weather pavement parking surface, as approved by the
Planning Board and as recommended by the Township Engineer, and shall be
clearly marked for car spaces.
   (F)   Keep all prescribed lights in good working condition and lighted as
required by law. All parking areas and appurtenant passageways and driveways
serving the subject premises shall be illuminated adequately during the hours
between sunset and sunrise. After 10:00 p.m., throughout the entire lot, 40% of
the lights in the parking area of the subject premises shall remain lighted
until sunrise. Adequate shielding shall be provided by users of the subject
premises to protect adjacent residential zones from the glare of illumination
and from that of automobile headlights.
   (G)   Keep all sidewalks, fences, buffer zones, side and rear yards and
setbacks clean and the grass, shrubbery, retaining walls, slopes and other
space in connection therewith in a well-maintained order. All curbings, fences,
screening or signs shall also be properly maintained.
   (H)   Keep the parking lines for parking spaces required properly painted
and marked.
   (I)   Keep all exterior areas free and clear of the storage of goods, wares
and merchandise except for reasonable periods of loading and unloading.
   (J)   Keep all garbage stored in the designated place or places and in
proper garbage receptacles.
   (K)   Keep placed at convenient locations proper trash receptacles which
shall be sufficiently serviced to prevent an overflow.
('74 Code, § 95-3) (Ord. 92-1979, passed 5-29-79)
§ 96.04 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall not act as a limitation upon any other ordinance, law,
rule, regulation or certificate which may affect any premises subject to this
chapter or any penalty, fine or liability thereunder, but is in addition
thereto. Any ordinance, regulation, order, certificate or part thereof which is
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter is, to the extent of such
inconsistency, hereby repealed.
('74 Code, § 95-5) (Ord. 92-1979, passed 5-29-79)
§ 96.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Construction
Code Official, Code Enforcement Officer and/or Zoning Officer of the Township.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Construction Code Official, Code Enforcement
Officer and/or Zoning Officer that a violation of this chapter exists, he shall
serve upon the user of the subject premises a written notice of said violation
and shall mail a copy of said notice to the owner of record of said subject
premises at the address shown on the last preceding assessment role. If said
violation is not corrected within five days of the issuance of said notice, the
Construction Code Official, Code Enforcement Officer and/or Zoning Officer is
authorized, empowered and permitted to apply for relief before any court of
competent jurisdiction by the filing of a complaint alleging the violation
hereof, and the owner will be subject to the penalty in §
156.999 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   In addition to any penalty provided for in this chapter or in any
other ordinance of the Township, whenever any government agency of the Township
requires screening facilities for any subject premises, the Code Enforcement
Officer and/or Zoning Officer, upon the direction of the Township Committee, is
hereby authorized and empowered to erect, replace, repair or maintain fences,
trees, plantings, shrubbery or other screening on land within the Township if,
after 30 days have expired since the issuance of letters by registered mail
addressed to the owner of record of such premises as shown on the last
preceding assessment role, such fences, trees, plantings, shrubbery or other
screening are not so erected, replaced, repaired or maintained by or on behalf
of such owner. All costs and expenses incurred by the Township in connection
with any said action hereinabove described shall be assessed against the land
on which such screening facilities are located. Any time a notice is sent
pursuant to the provisions of this section, a copy of this section shall be
attached to such notice.
('74 Code, § 95-4) (Ord. 92-1979, passed 5-29-79)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Applicability
   
97.02   Hours of operation
   
97.03   Permits for special events
   
97.04   Construction of provisions
   
97.05   Conflicting laws
   
97.06   Enforcement
Prohibited Conduct
   
97.20   Persons to conduct themselves in orderly manner
   
97.21   Damaging, injuring or improperly using park property
   
97.22   Animals in parks
   
97.23   Littering, dumping or placing refuse in park waters or grounds
   
97.24   Vehicle regulations in parks
   
97.25   Bicycle regulations in parks
   
97.26   Swimming; indecent exposure
   
97.27   Boating regulations
   
97.28   Firearms and explosives
   
97.29   Picnic areas; fires
   
97.30   Playing games outside of designated areas; entering areas closed to
public
   
97.31   Alcoholic beverages regulations
   
97.32   Affixing signs or advertisements
   
97.33   Gambling
   
97.34   Disorderly or disturbing conduct
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Advisory Board, see §§
32.115 -
32.119
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall regulate conduct in all public parks and recreational
areas in the township.
('74 Code, § 95A-1) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
§ 97.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The parks and recreational areas within the township regulated by this
chapter shall be open throughout the year from 8:00 a.m. until sunset of each
day.
   (A)   Except for unusual or unforeseen emergencies, the park shall be open
to the public every day of the year during the hours designated herein.
   (B)   No person may, in any manner, enter upon, remain on or use the parks
and/or recreational areas at times other than those designated herein.
   (C)   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public
by the Township Committee at any time and for any interval of time, either
temporarily or at regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise), and either
entirely or merely for certain uses.
   (D)   Exceptions may be scheduled by permit.
('74 Code, § 95A-3) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.03 PERMITS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Permits for special events in parks shall be obtained by making application
to the Community Education and Recreation Director, in accordance with the
following procedure:
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application with the Community Education and Recreation Director stating:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity, if any.
      (3)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
      (4)   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired.
      (5)   Any other information which the Community Education and Recreation
Director shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether
a permit should be issued hereunder.
   (B)   Standards for issuance of a use permit by the Community Education and
Recreation Director include the following findings:
      (1)   That the proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public's enjoyment of the park or
recreation area.
      (2)   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of the public health, welfare, safety and
recreation.
      (3)   That the proposed activities or uses that are reasonably
anticipated will not induce violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
      (4)   That the proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police protection.
      (5)   That the facilities desired have not been reserved for use at the
date and hour requested in the application.
   (C)   Within seven working days after receipt of an application, the
Community Education and Recreation Director shall apprise an applicant in
writing of his reasons for refusing a permit, and any aggrieved person shall
have the right to appeal within five days of said refusal to the Director of
Recreation and Public Safety by serving written notice thereof. Such written
notice shall specify the ground or grounds upon which such applicant believes
that a permit should have been issued.
   (D)   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable ordinances fully as though the same were inserted in said permit.
   (E)   The person or persons to whom the permit is issued shall be liable for
all loss, damage or injury sustained by any person whatever by reason of the
negligence of the person or persons to whom such permit shall have been issued.
The Director of Recreation and Public Safety shall have the right to require
any permittee to submit evidence of liability insurance covering injuries to
members of the general public arising out of such permitted activities in such
amounts as may be from time to time determined by the Director of Recreation
and Public Safety.
   (F)   The Community Education and Recreation Director shall have the
authority to revoke a permit upon finding of a violation of any rule or
ordinance or upon good cause shown.
('74 Code, § 95A-4) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
§ 97.04 CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS.
   No provision of this chapter shall make unlawful any act necessarily
performed by any officer or employee of the township in the line of his duty or
work as such or by any person, his agent or employees in the proper and
necessary execution of the terms of any agreement with the township.
('74 Code, § 95A-7) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
§ 97.05 CONFLICTING LAWS.
   Any ordinance or parts of ordinances thereof inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency.
('74 Code, § 95A-9) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
§ 97.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The police of the township, as authorized from time to time by
resolution of the Township Committee, shall, in connection with their duties
imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The police of the township, as authorized from time to time by the
Township Committee, shall have the authority to eject from the park area any
person or persons acting in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The New Jersey State Police and the police of the township, as
authorized from time to time by resolution of the Township Committee, shall
have the authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing or device in the
park or used in violation of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 95A-5) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 97.20 PERSONS TO CONDUCT THEMSELVES IN ORDERLY MANNER.
   While in the public parks and/or recreation areas regulated by this chapter
in the township, all persons shall conduct themselves in a proper and orderly
manner, and in particular, no person shall do anything prohibited by the
provisions of this subchapter.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.21 DAMAGING, INJURING OR IMPROPERLY USING PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or
paving materials, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or permanent,
monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or other structures or
equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either real
or personal.
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining rest rooms and washrooms in a neat
and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs or plants or
other wood or material or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or
other means or agency.
   (D)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service utility onto, upon
or across such lands, except upon special written permit issued hereunder.
   (E)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or injure
the bark or pick flowers or seed of any tree or plant, dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas or in any other way injure the natural beauty or usefulness
of any area.
   (F)   Climb any tree or walk, stand or sit upon monuments, vases, planters,
railings, fences or upon any other property not designated or customarily used
for such purpose.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(1) - (6)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.22 ANIMALS IN PARKS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring any animal onto public parks and/or recreational areas.
   (B)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot
or throw missiles at any animal, wildlife, reptile or bird; nor shall he remove
or have in his possession the young of any wild animal or the eggs or nest or
young of any reptile or bird.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(7), (8)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.23 LITTERING, DUMPING OR PLACING REFUSE IN PARK WATERS OR GROUNDS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any pond, lake, brook or stream in or adjacent to any park or any
tributary system or storm sewer or drain flowing into any such water any
substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the
pollution of said waters.
   (B)   Bring into, dump in, deposit or leave within the public park or
recreational area any empty bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans,
dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse or other trash. In addition, no such
refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous to any park or
recreational area or left anywhere on the grounds thereof. All such refuse and/
or trash shall be placed in the proper receptacles where those are provided. In
those places where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish, trash or
waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(9), (10)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.24 VEHICLE REGULATIONS IN PARKS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Drive any vehicle, including minibikes, mopeds and motorcycles, on any
area except the paved park roads or parking areas or such areas as may, upon
occasion, be specifically designated as temporary areas.
   (B)   Park a vehicle in other than an established or designated parking
area, and such parking shall be in accordance with posted directions thereat
and/or with the instructions of any attendant who may be present.
   (C)   Leave a vehicle standing or parked at night in established parking
areas or elsewhere in the park area.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(11) - (13)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.25 BICYCLE REGULATIONS IN PARKS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against trees or
in any other place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured
by them.
   (B)   Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard to the safety of others.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(14), (15)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.26 SWIMMING; INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Swim or bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any
park.
   (B)   Dress or undress in any park or in any vehicle, toilet or other place.
   (C)   Appear in any place in other than proper clothing, so as to be
indecently exposed.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(16) - (18)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.27 BOATING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bring into or operate any boat, raft or other watercraft, whether
motor-powered or not, upon any waters, except at places designated for boating.
Such activity shall be in accordance with applicable regulations as are now or
hereafter may be adopted.
   (B)   Navigate, direct or handle any boat in such a manner as to
unjustifiably or unnecessarily annoy or frighten or endanger the occupants of
any other boat.
   (C)   Launch, dock or operate any boat of any kind on any water between the
closing hour of the park at night or opening hour of the park the following
morning; nor shall any person be on or remain on or in any boat during said
closed hours of the park.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(19) - (21)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.28 FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Carry or possess firearms of any description or air rifles, spring
guns, bows and arrows, slings or any other forms of weapons potentially
inimical to wildlife and dangerous to human safety, or any other instrument
that can be loaded with and fire blank cartridges, or any kind of trapping
device. Shooting into park areas from beyond the park boundaries is forbidden.
   (B)   Have in his possession or set or otherwise cause to explode or
discharge or burn any firecrackers, torpedo rockets or other fireworks,
firecrackers or explosives of flammable material or discharge them or throw
them into any such area from lands or highways adjacent thereto. This
prohibition includes any substance, compound, mixture or article that, in
conjunction with any other substance or compound, would be dangerous from any
of the foregoing standpoints. At the discretion of the Township Committee,
permits may be given for conducting properly supervised fireworks in designated
park areas at times to be set by resolution of the Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(22), (23)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.29 PICNIC AREAS; FIRES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Picnic or lunch in a place other than those places designated for that
purpose.
   (B)   Use any portion of the picnic area or any of the buildings or
structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other
persons; nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable
time if the facilities are crowded.
   (C)   Build or attempt to build a fire, except in such areas and under such
regulations as may be designated; no person shall drop or throw or otherwise
scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other
flammable material within any park or on any highways, roads or streets
abutting or contiguous thereto.
   (D)   Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely extinguished and
before all trash is placed in the disposal or receptacles where provided. If no
such trash receptacles are available, then trash shall be carried away from the
park area by the picnicker to be properly disposed of elsewhere.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(24) - (27)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.30 PLAYING GAMES OUTSIDE OF DESIGNATED AREAS; ENTERING AREAS CLOSED TO
PUBLIC.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown or
otherwise propelled objects, such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins,
horseshoes, quoits, golf balls or model airplanes, except in those areas set
apart for such forms of recreation.
   (B)   Enter an area posted as “closed to the public”; nor shall any person
use or abet in the use of any area in violation of a posted notice.
   (C)   Go onto the ice on any of the waters, except such areas as are
designated as skating areas, provided that a safety signal is displayed.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(28), (31), (33)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.31 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES REGULATIONS.
   No person shall bring alcoholic beverages into the park or drink same unless
a permit is issued by the Township Committee.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(29)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.32 AFFIXING SIGNS OR ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall tack, staple, paste, glue or otherwise affix any sign,
placard; advertisement or inscriptions whatever; nor shall any person erect or
cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads
adjacent to a park.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(30), (36)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.33 GAMBLING.
   No person shall gamble or participate in or abet any game of chance except
in such areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the Township
Committee.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(32)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.34 DISORDERLY OR DISTURBING CONDUCT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or
indecent language or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to
breach the public peace.
   (B)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a permit.
('74 Code, § 95A-2 A.(34), (35)) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant hereto shall, upon conviction, be subject to
the replacement, repair or restoration of any damaged property and shall be
subject to a fine not exceeding $200 and, in default of payment thereof, may be
sentenced to imprisonment in the county jail, in the discretion of the
Municipal Judge, for a term not exceeding 90 days.
('74 Code, § 95A-6) (Ord. 186-1982, passed 11-22-82)
CHAPTER 98: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Installation of sidewalks required
Obstructions; Excavation and Curbing
   
98.15   Definitions
   
98.16   Permits required to obstruct, use for private purpose, or install
curbing
   
98.17   Permit required to open or excavate
   
98.18   Application for permit; fees
   
98.19   Term of permit
   
98.20   Surety bond
   
98.21   Guarding of excavation; liability for damage
   
98.22   Restoration of excavated streets
Numbering of Buildings
   
98.35   Purpose
   
98.36   Applicability
   
98.37   Responsibility of owner or occupant
   
98.38   Specifications
   
98.39   Assignment of numbers
   
98.40   Enforcement
   
98.99   Penalty
Editor's note:
   Section
98.18 was amended and §
98.21 was added at the time of adoption of the 1974 code (12-30-74). Other
amendments are noted as applicable in the histories.
Cross-reference:
   Closing of streets, see §
70.04
   Extra-territorial streets prohibited from connecting to Township streets;
exceptions, see § 158.006
   Traffic controls for construction and maintenance operations, see §
70.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless the Planning Board specifically provides otherwise, every
approval of an application for development of a property located adjacent to
any and all streets and roadways which are located in the Township, including
state and county roads, shall require, as a condition of such approval, that
the applicant install sidewalks, in accordance with the applicable requirements
and standards imposed by the Township, on such property and along such streets
and roadways.
('74 Code, § 108-13)
   (B)   Unless the Planning Board specifically provides otherwise, every
approval of an application for the amendment of or the extension of a
previously approved subdivision or site plan shall require, as a condition of
such approval, that the applicant install sidewalks, in accordance with the
applicable requirements and standards imposed by the township, on the subject
property and along both sides of each and every street and roadway located
within such previously approved subdivision or site plan.
('74 Code, § 108-14)
(Ord. 695-1994, passed 4-25-94)
Penalty, see § 98.99
OBSTRUCTIONS; EXCAVATION AND CURBING
§ 98.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LONGITUDINAL OPENING. Any opening, ditch or excavation in any improved
street or road made for the purpose of installing any pipe, wire or conduit, or
for any other purpose, where the opening is made parallel to the longitudinal
axis of the road. Any opening in excess of 30 feet in length shall be
classified as a LONGITUDINAL OPENING.
   PERSONS. Individuals, firms, partnerships, corporations and unincorporated
associations.
   TRANSVERSE STREET OPENING. Any opening, ditch or excavation in any improved
street or road made for the purpose of installing any pipe, wire or conduit, or
for any other purpose, where the opening is made at right angles or nearly at
right angles to the longitudinal axis of the street or road.
('74 Code, § 108-1) (Ord. passed 8-1-51)
§ 98.16 PERMITS REQUIRED TO OBSTRUCT, USE FOR PRIVATE PURPOSE OR INSTALL
CURBING.
   (A)   No person or persons shall obstruct any street, alley or sidewalk with
any encumbrance whatsoever, including any motor vehicle, whether registered or
not, without a permit from the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 806-97, passed 5-19-97)
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain any encroachment, obstruction or
encumbrance in, over or upon any street, avenue, highway, road or land of the
township; nor shall any person use or attempt to use for any private purpose
any part of any street, avenue, highway, road or land; nor shall any person
remove or install any curbing unless such person shall have applied for and
received the permit herein authorized.
('74 Code, § 108-2) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. passed 4-28-66)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.17 PERMIT REQUIRED TO OPEN OR EXCAVATE.
   No person shall hereafter disturb the surface of or make any opening or
excavation of any kind in any street, avenue, road or public highway or remove
or reinstall any curbing under the jurisdiction of the township without first
having obtained the permit herein authorized from the Township Clerk.
('74 Code, § 108-3) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. passed 4-28-66)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.18 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   Application for the permit shall be presented to the Township Clerk in
writing, setting forth the portion of the street, avenue, highway, road or land
to be used, encumbered or obstructed as aforesaid or the portion of the curbing
to be removed, the purpose or use to which the same shall be put and the period
of time during which it shall be maintained, the size of the excavation, the
date when the excavation is to be made and the probable time required and the
nature of the pavement, curbing or surface to be broken, which application
shall also set forth the name of the person requiring the same and shall be
accompanied by a sketch showing the details thereof. ('74 Code, § 108-4)
   (B)   No opening of any kind shall be made and no curbing shall be removed
without obtaining a permit from the Township Clerk. The required fees shall be
established by the Township committee annually. All fees shall be paid at the
time of the issuance of a permit for each transverse opening or curb removal.
After the street, roadway or curb has been completed or restored to its
original condition, the recipient of the permit shall so notify the Clerk. If
an inspection of the opening indicates that the roadway has been restored in a
satisfactory manner or that the curb opening has been completed in a proper
manner, a refund less $10 shall be made on curb removals. If the roadway is not
restored in a satisfactory manner, the entire amount of the fee shall be
forfeited as liquidated damages.
   (C)   A fee in an amount set by Township Committee shall be paid for the
issuing of a permit for each longitudinal opening. A refund will be made upon
the satisfactory restoration of the roadway surface. At the option of the
Township, an inspection charge may be made in an amount set by Township
Committee.
   (D)   All fees shall be paid to the Township Clerk either in cash or by
certified check drawn to the order of the Township.
('74 Code, § 108-5) (Ord. passed 8-1-51; Am. Ord. passed 4-28-66; Am. Ord.
passed 12-28-67; Am. Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74)
§ 98.19 TERM OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued shall be valid for a period of 60 days and shall
terminate at the expiration of the 60-day period. In the event that the roadway
has not been restored within the 60-day period, the entire amount of the fee
shall be forfeited as liquidated damages.
('74 Code, § 108-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-67)
§ 98.20 SURETY BOND.
   Any person having occasion to make a number of excavations or openings in
the streets, roads or highways of the Township may execute and file a bond in
an amount equal to 120% of the estimated cost to open and repair the street, as
verified by the Township Engineer, in favor of the Township, conditioned for
the relaying and resurfacing of all such streets, roads or public highways in a
manner satisfactory to the Township Engineer, and in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. Upon the filing and approval by the Township
Committee of any such bond, the deposit referred to in the preceding section
shall not be required to accompany each application for a permit; but the
permit fee hereinabove fixed shall accompany each such application and be paid
as herein provided.
('74 Code, § 108-7) (Ord. passed 8-1-51)
§ 98.21 GUARDING OF EXCAVATION; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   The excavation and all piles of excavated material or any material used in
the work to be performed in the opening for which a permit is issued shall be
carefully guarded and lighted, or caused to be carefully guarded and lighted,
by the person to whom such permit has been issued, who shall be liable for all
loss and damage caused by the prosecution of the work or failure to properly
guard or maintain said opening.
('74 Code, § 108-8) (Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.22 RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED STREETS.
   After the making of any such opening or excavation, the street or road
pavement or surface shall be relaid by the applicant therefor, under the
supervision of the Township Engineering Department; and upon completion of such
work the Township Engineering Department shall make an inspection of the same
and shall certify to the Township Clerk that the work has been completed in a
satisfactory manner. The Clerk shall then refund to the applicant the deposit
paid at the time the application for said opening or excavation was made. In
the event that the pavement or surface of the street, road or highway shall not
have been completed to the satisfaction of the Township Engineering Department,
the Township Engineering Department shall proceed to complete said work and
relay the pavement or surface in a manner satisfactory to it; upon completion
thereof the Township Engineering Department shall certify to the Township Clerk
the costs of so doing, and in that event the Township Clerk shall deduct from
said deposit the costs so certified and shall refund, to the person making the
application for such permit, only the difference between the amount of the
original deposit and the costs incurred by the Township Engineering Department
as aforesaid.
('74 Code, § 108-9) (Ord. passed 8-1-51)
Penalty, see § 98.99
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
§ 98.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require the clear display of authorized
and assigned house or building numbers on every building fronting on any street
in the township in order to assist the general public and emergency services,
public and private, in identifying the property in case of emergency or
otherwise.
('74 Code, § 47-1) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
§ 98.36 APPLICABILITY.
   All dwelling houses, stores or other principal buildings erected or to be
erected within the township shall display house numbers assigned by the Tax
Assessor of the Township as provided herein and in conformity with the
specifications set forth in § 98.38 herein.
('74 Code, § 47-2) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.37 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   The owner, occupant or lessee of each and every house, store or other
building which now fronts or which may hereafter front upon any public or
private street within the Township shall, at his own expense, within three
months after the adoption and publication of this chapter, cause the authorized
and assigned number of such house or building to be permanently and
conspicuously placed in accordance with the specifications set forth herein.
('74 Code, § 47-3) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.38 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   House or building numbers shall be:
      (1)   In Arabic numerals.
      (2)   A minimum height of three inches.
      (3)   Mounted in a secure fashion to the front wall or porch of the
building or other fixed appurtenance in the front of the building so as to be
clearly visible from the street.
      (4)   Sufficiently legible as to contrasting background, arrangement,
spacing and uniformity so as to be clearly visible from the street.
      (5)   At least 30 inches above ground level and so placed that trees,
shrubs and other obstructions do not block the line of sight of the numbers
from the street upon which the building fronts.
   (B)   Multiple housing unit numbers shall be as follows:
      (1)   Each unit in a multiple housing building with exterior entrances
shall be numbered in conformity with the requirements of division (A).
      (2)   Each building containing multiple housing units shall also be
identified by a letter or name to be assigned by the Assessor's office.
      (3)   Each building shall display a sign which identifies sequentially
the units in the building.
      (4)   The numerals and lettering as required by divisions (B)(2) and (3)
shall have a minimum height of 12 inches and be reflectorized or lighted so
that they can be viewed at night at a distance of 50 feet and shall be placed
at least ten feet above ground level and so placed that trees, shrubs and other
obstructions do not block the line of sight of the numerals or letters from the
street upon which the building fronts.
   (C)   Commercial unit numbers shall be:
      (1)   In Arabic numerals.
      (2)   A minimum height of 12 inches high and reflectorized or lighted so
that they can be viewed at night at a distance of 50 feet
      (3)   Used in conjunction with building names where appropriate.
      (4)   At least ten feet above ground level and so placed that trees,
shrubs and other obstructions do not block the line of sight of the numbers
from the street upon which the building fronts.
   (D)   Visibility of numbers on building which is set back. If the house or
building has such a setback location that the provisions cannot be complied
with, then the owner, occupant or lessee shall provide a post, rod or other
type of fixture of a substantial nature, including a mailbox, with the number
affixed thereon and so located on the premises that the number shall be
conspicuous and visible from the street upon which the building fronts.
('74 Code, § 47-4) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.39 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   House numbers shall be assigned by the Tax Assessor of the Township. Every
owner, occupant or lessee of a building constructed or to be constructed in the
Township shall apply to the Tax Assessor for an authorized number.
('74 Code, § 47-5) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
§ 98.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   Upon the failure of an owner, occupant or lessee to ascertain and affix upon
any building to which this chapter applies the assigned and authorized number
within three months after the final adoption and publication of this chapter,
the Township may enforce the provisions herein.
('74 Code, § 47-6) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating, or failing to comply with, any of the provisions
of this chapter, for which no specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not more than $500 or by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or both.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§ 98.35 through 98.40, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200.
('74 Code, § 47-7) (Ord. 387-1988, passed 2-22-88)
CHAPTER 99: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Parking prohibited
   
99.03   Temporary parking; loading or unloading
   
99.04   Permanent affixation to ground
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall be classified as
RECREATIONAL OR CAMPING VEHICLES:
   BOAT. A watercraft propelled by oars, paddles, sail or power.
   CAMPER.  A separate vehicle designed for human habitation and which can be
attached to or detached from a pickup truck.
   CAMPER TRAILER.  A vehicular, portable dwelling structure designed to be
used for recreational purposes. This includes a travel trailer so identified by
the manufacturer, a pickup camper, a folding tent trailer and a motorized
camper where the camping portion is an integral part of the self-propelled
vehicle.
   MOTOR HOME.  A self-contained vehicle designed for human habitation with its
own motive power and with a passageway from the body of the home to the
driver's and front passenger's seat.
   TRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons or
property on its own and to be drawn by a vehicle with motive power. The term
shall include but not be limited to horse trailers, boat trailers and skimobile
trailers.
('74 Code, § 123A-1) (Ord. 391-88, passed 3-28-88)
§ 99.02 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall park a recreational vehicle upon any
road, street, highway or public right-of-way within the Township.
('74 Code, § 123A-2) (Ord. 391-88, passed 3-28-88)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.03 TEMPORARY PARKING; LOADING OR UNLOADING.
   (A)   An owner or operator of a vehicle which otherwise would be prohibited
from parking upon any road, street, highway or right-of-way within the Township
shall, nonetheless, have the right to make application to the Police Department
for a permit to park upon any road, street, highway or right-of-way on a
temporary basis for a period not to exceed seven days.
('74 Code, § 123A-3)
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to temporary stopping
or parking for loading or unloading purposes.
('74 Code, § 123A-4)
(Ord. 391-88, passed 3-28-88)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.04 PERMANENT AFFIXATION TO GROUND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permanently
affix to the ground any recreational vehicle in a manner that would prevent the
ready removal of such recreational vehicle without having first obtained a
permit from the construction official of the Township. Any such alteration to
any recreational vehicle as above set forth shall be construed as subjecting
the same to the requirements of the uniform construction codes and the laws of
the State of New Jersey pertaining to said uses.
('74 Code, § 123A-5) (Ord. 391-88, passed 3-28-88)
Penalty, see § 99.99
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. ('74 Code, § 123A-6) (Ord. 391-88, passed 3-28-
88)
CHAPTER 100: ALARMS
Section
General Provisions
   
100.01   Scope
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Registration of alarm system
   
100.04   Dial alarm devices
   
100.05   General requirements
   
100.06   False alarms
   
100.07   Enforcement
   
100.08   Public nuisance
   
100.09   Applicability
Business Registration
   
100.15   Registration of emergency assistance.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§100.01   SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person who maintains or
owns any alarm device, alarm system, dial alarm or local alarm or local alarm
designated to produce a visual or audible signal of an emergency or otherwise
designed to summon the Township Police Department, the Township Fire Department
or any other municipal agency to any location in response to any type of alarm
signal.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97)
§100.05   DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and derivations
shall have the following meanings:
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical or electronic device which is
designed or used for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or facility or for alerting others about the commission of an
unlawful act within a building, structure or facility or for alerting others
about the existence of any other condition requiring response of police, fire
or ambulance personnel and which emits and/or transmits an audible and/or
visual signal or message when actuated. Alarm systems include, but are not
limited to, direct dial telephone devices, audible alarms and subscriber
alarms.
   AUDIBLE ALARMS. A device that emits an audible signal from the premises that
it is designated to protect.
   CHIEF. For purposes of this chapter, wherever the term Chief appears by
itself, it shall be interpreted to mean the Police Chief and/or Fire Chief as
the context and circumstances require.
   DIAL ALARM or DIRECT DIAL ALARM. Any type of alarm system using telephone
lines transmitting an alarm directly through the police switchboard, providing
warning of intrusion, fire smoke, flood or other perils by way of recorded
voice message.
   DIGITAL ALARM. A microprocessor controlled alarm switch designed to connect
to a console or central station.
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm or signal of an alarm system actuated by
inadvertence, negligence, intentional or unintentional act of a person other
than an intruder and including, as well, alarms caused by mechanical failure,
malfunctioning or improper installation of the alarm system and related
equipment but not including alarms created by mechanical failure,
malfunctioning or improper installation of the alarm console. For purposes of §
100.06, FALSE ALARMS shall not include audible alarms affixed to automobiles.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief or Acting Fire Chief of the Voorhees Township
Fire Department or his/her designated representative. For purposes of this
chapter, the term DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean any person designated by
the Fire Chief to perform a function required or permitted by the provisions of
this chapter.
   LOCAL ALARM. Any alarm system which, when actuated, produces a signal not
connected to the alarm console or the police switchboard, such as store burglar
alarm activating bell devices, providing warning of intrusion, fire, smoke,
flood or other perils. The term LOCAL ALARM shall not include an alarm system
on a motor vehicle, provided that such alarm is not interconnected with an
alarm device, a dial alarm or a local alarm. The term LOCAL ALARM shall also
not include any alarm equipment designed to signal solely within the building
(or series of buildings, if owned by the same person) on which it is located
and which is not designed to emit signals, visible or audible, to persons
outside each building (or series of buildings).
   MONITORED SYSTEM. An alarm system that when actuated causes a visual and/or
audible signal to a private monitoring center by telephone or other means that
results in a telephone call being placed to the Township Police Department
communications center by the monitoring service requesting emergency response
to the location of the alarm.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, partnership, corporation or
association.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Police Chief or Acting Police Chief of the Township Police
Department or his/her designated representative. For purposes of this chapter,
the term DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean any person designated by the
Police Chief to perform a function required or permitted by the provisions of
this chapter.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Township Police Department.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any condition or occurrence which annoys, injures, or
endangers
the comfort, repose, health or safety of any person(s) of any community or
neighborhood.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Voorhees.
   VISUAL ALARMS. A rotating or flashing light that, when activated, is
intended to alert the observer that the premises on which it is affixed has
been illegally entered.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97)
§100.03   REGISTRATION OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall install, operate or maintain an alarm system on any
property within the Township unless such alarm system is registered with the
Police Chief. Such registration shall include all information deemed necessary
by the Police Chief, including , but not limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the property;
      (2)   The name and address of each tenant or occupant of the property if
other than the property owner;
      (3)   The type of alarm device;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the alarm business(es)
selling, installing, monitoring, inspecting, servicing, responding to and/or
maintaining the alarm system;
      (5)   The name and telephone number of at least two persons who can be
reached at any time, day or night, and who are authorized to respond to an
alarm signal and who can open the premises in which the system is installed;
and
      (6)   The indemnification described in subsection (B) below executed by
the property owner and each occupant of the building utilizing an alarm system
registered pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The registration of an alarm system pursuant to this chapter shall be
expressly conditioned upon the registrant agreeing, in writing, to indemnify
and hold the Township harmless from and on account of any and all damages
arising out of the activities of the registrant or its alarm contractor and
arising out of the existence, operation, failure to operate, use or misuse of
the alarm system on the registrant's premises and arising out of the operation
or failure to operate of the alarm console.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to audible alarms
affixed to automobiles, provided, however, that the provisions of §
100.08 shall apply to audible alarms affixed to automobiles.
   (D)   All audible alarm systems in place on the effective date of this
section shall have a period of six months within which to register such system
in accordance with this section; provided however, that if an audible alarm is
activated and the Police Department or the Fire Department respond to such
activation, whether or not such signal is for a true emergency situation or a
false alarm, the property owner must register such system pursuant to this
section within fourteen days after such activation.
   (E)   Failure to register with the Chief of Police, as required herein, will
result in a penalty as set forth in §
100.07.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 4-8-02)
§100.04   DIAL ALARM REQUIREMENTS.
   Dial alarm devices shall not be permitted in the Township except by quasi-
governmental school boards in public grade and middle school facilities and
only in devices systems approved by the Police Chief.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97; Am. Ord. 13-2000, passed 4-24-00)
§100.05   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The alarm business or owner of any audible alarm system shall be
responsible for deactivating any alarm within 60 minutes after notification or
after reasonable efforts have been made to notify the owner or alarm business
that such alarm is sounding.
   (B)   Every audible alarm installed after the effective date of this section
shall have a timing device which automatically shuts off the alarm within 60
minutes after it is activated. An alarm that sounds for more than 60 minutes
may be considered a public nuisance as defined in this chapter. All audible
alarms installed prior to the effective date of this section must either have a
timing device which automatically shuts off the alarm within 60 minutes after
it is activated or the property owner must have in place procedures whereby the
alarm is manually or automatically shut off within 60 minutes after it is
activated.
   (C)   In the event that an alarm system emitting an audible, visual or other
similar response shall fail to be deactivated within the time limitation
specified in subsection (B) above, the Chief shall have the right to take such
action as may be necessary in order to disconnect any such alarm.
   (D)   The obligation for the maintenance, repair, upkeep and continuing
operation of alarm systems shall be the sole responsibility of the person(s)
having had the system installed. All components of alarm equipment must be
maintained in good repair by the registrant, and, when evidence exists that
there has been failure to comply with the operational requirements of this
chapter, the Chief is then authorized to demand that such device be
disconnected until such time as compliance with current requirements is
reestablished.
   (E)   An alarm business, upon written request by the Chief, shall provide a
service history of a particular alarm system within five business days after
receiving the request.
   (F)   Any person testing an alarm covered under the terms of this chapter
shall notify the Police Department immediately prior to and after the testing
is completed. Failure to do so shall subject such person to the fees provided
for false alarms.
   (G)   The sensory mechanism of alarm devices and local alarms shall be
adjusted so as to suppress false indications and not to be actuated by impulses
due to pressure changes in water pipes, short flashes of light, wind, noises,
rattling or vibration at doors or windows or other forces unrelated to general
alarms.
   (H)   In addition to any other information that may be required to be
supplied by the provisions of this chapter, the Chief may require the alarm
business to furnish him with certain statistical data which may be reasonably
available relative to specified periods of operation after the effective date
of this Chapter.
   (I)   In addition to the normal power supply, alarm devices and local alarms
shall have an independent battery, of equal voltage to the normal power supply,
which is kept fully charged and shall be capable of switching from one power
supply to the other automatically.
   (J)   The Chief may from time to time promulgate rules and regulations
supplementing this chapter in order to provide for record keeping, efficient
management and administration of the provisions of this chapter, Provided,
however, that the Mayor and Township Committee must first approve these rules
or any changes thereto.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97)
§100.06   FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   In the case of a false alarm, any person having knowledge thereof
shall immediately notify the Police Department or the Fire Department, as the
case may be, in a manner to be prescribed by the rules and promulgated in
accordance with §100.05 (J) of this chapter in addition. In the case of false
alarms, the Chief shall cause an investigation to be made and keep a record of
all such alarms on file. Upon the occurrence of a false alarm, the Chief shall
cause a notice of false alarm on a form prescribed by the Chief and approved by
the Township Committee to be forwarded to the property owner indicating the
date and time of the alarm response, comments with respect to the incident and
information with respect to the number of false alarms during the given
calendar year. The form shall be signed by the Chief or the designated
representative responding to the false alarm and investigating the matter.
Fines may be imposed for repeated false alarms generated at the same property
in any given calendar year based on the following schedule:
      (1)   Residential properties. For the first, second, third, fourth, fifth
and sixth false alarm in any given calendar year, a warning shall be issued.
For the seventh and eighth false alarm in any calendar year, a fine of $100 for
each false alarm occurrence shall be imposed. For the ninth, tenth and eleventh
false alarm in any calendar year, a fine of $200 for each occurrence shall be
imposed. For the twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth false alarm which occurs in
any calendar year a fine of $300 for each occurrence shall be imposed.
      (2)   Non-residential property. For the first, second, third and fourth
false alarm in any given calendar year, a warning shall be issued. For the
fifth and sixth false alarm in any calendar year, a fine of $200 for each false
alarm occurrence shall be imposed. For the seventh, eighth and ninth false
alarm in any calendar year, a fine of $300 for each occurrence shall be
imposed. For the tenth or subsequent false alarm which occurs in any calendar
year a fine of $500 for each occurrence shall be imposed.
      (3)   If an alarm system for a specific property or location within a
property is the subject of false alarm incident reports of 15 or more during
any calendar year, a summons to appear before the Municipal Court for each
occurrence shall be directed to the property owner and/or the business operator
and any and all fines and penalties in accordance with §
100.07 may be imposed by the Court as the Court deems appropriate.
      (4)   If a fine is imposed on a property owner pursuant to this section,
the Chief shall cause a summons to be issued to the property owner stating the
amount of fine to be paid. Such fine shall be paid to the Municipal Court
Clerk.
   (B)   False alarms created by any act of God as determined by the Chief
shall not be included in the count of false alarm incidents for purposes of
calculating the applicable fine under subsection (A) of this section. In
addition, the Chief shall have the authority to waive any specific fines or not
include any one or more incidents in the count of false alarm incidents for
purposes of calculating the applicable fines as the Chief determines is in the
best interest of the Township.
   (C)   In the event that the Municipal Court determines that the false alarm
(s) occurred as a direct result of an interruption of electrical power, a
telephone system malfunction, an alarm equipment malfunction or other causes
clearly beyond the control of the owner, the Municipal Court may waive
imposition of the applicable false alarm fines or administrative sanction.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 4-8-02)
§100.07   ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty in the Municipal Court of
the Township for violation of the terms of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $1,000, or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 90 days.
   (B)   All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by Township shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 4-8-02)
§100.08   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any audible alarm, including, but not limited to, audible automobile or
other vehicular alarms, which continues to transmit an audible signal for more
than 60 minutes after the property owner, registrant, alarm business and/or
vehicle owner is notified or all reasonable attempts to so notify such person
or persons are made, shall be grounds for holding such property owner,
registrant, alarm business or vehicle owner in violation of
Chapter 95 of the Township Code of Ordinances and subject to the penalties
contained therein.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97)
§100.09   APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions contained herein shall apply equally to those alarm systems
that are placed in service prior to or subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97)
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§100.15   REGISTRATION OF EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, every business located in
the Township must have on file with the Police Chief an updated emergency
information card that contains at least two names and phone numbers of those
people to be contacted after business hours in reference to building security,
damage or any occurrence that requires access be gained to the facility in
question This requirement is mandatory whether or not the business is alarmed.
This information should be updated annually and changes should be reported
immediately after they occur.
(Ord. 823-97, passed 8-11-97)
CHAPTER 101: GAMES, AUTOMATIC AND COMMERCIAL
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   License requirements and duration
   
101.03   License applications
   
101.04   Application investigation
   
101.05   Hearing
   
101.06   License renewal application
   
101.07   License fees; issuance
   
101.08   Nontransferability
   
101.09   Regulations
   
101.10   Transitional rules
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms have the meanings indicated:
   AMUSEMENT GAMES LICENSING LAW. N.J.S.A. 5:8-78 through N.J.S.A. 5:8-119
inclusive, including any amendments thereto duly enacted subsequent to the
effective date of this chapter.
   ARCADE. Any establishment in which five or more automatic commercial games
are located.
   AUTOMATIC COMMERCIAL GAME or GAME. Any automatic game machine or device,
whether electronic or mechanical, or a combination of both, for the object of
amusement or skill, or a combination of both, including any pinball game and
video-type game or machine or similar device that includes a screen for display
of points, lines or dots of light which can be manipulated or influenced by a
player or operator to produce or simulate any game which is operated, actuated,
used, maintained or set in motion or in operation by the deposit therein of any
coin or coins or by any or similar object for which money is charged, or
combination thereof, or for the playing or operation of which a fee is charged;
provided, however, that the automatic commercial game shall not be construed to
mean or include children's rides.
   INDOOR CHILDREN'S RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY CENTER. Any building, room, suite,
structure, area, premises or other place catering to children 12 years and
under. At least 75% of the gross floor area shall be devoted to a children's
physical activity center. Up to ten automatic commercial games shall be
permitted, if the annual per game licensing fee required by §
101.07(B) is paid by January of each year.
   LICENSED OPERATOR. An operator whose premises are licensed under the terms
of this chapter.
   OPERATOR. Any person in whose arcade or indoor amusement park, as defined in
the Code of the Township, an automatic commercial game is placed, kept or
located for operation and use by the public.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
entity.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 335-18, passed 10-15-18)
§ 101.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND DURATION.
   (A)   No person shall make any automatic commercial game available for
public use in an arcade or indoor amusement park within the township without
first having paid the fees required by this chapter and having obtained a
license for the premises where the game is to be so made available, which
license is in good standing and effect.
   (B)   No licensee shall hold, operate or conduct on the licensed premises
any unlicensed game required to be licensed pursuant to the Amusement Games
Control Law or the Amusement Games Licensing Law or the Legalized Games of
Chance Control Commission Regulations.
   (C)   No license shall be issued under this chapter or used by any person,
except for an arcade or indoor amusement park which is permitted and or
consistent with the Township Zoning Ordinance and which shall have already
received every required approval of the Planning Board to the extent
applicable.
   (D)   No automatic commercial game shall be made available for use or play
by the public or a substantial part or number of the public except in an arcade
or indoor amusement park which is licensed hereunder and permitted under the
Township Zoning Ordinance and which shall have already received every required
approval of the Planning Board to the extent applicable.
   (E)   A license, once granted, shall be good for the rest of the calendar
year and expire at the close of December 31 of the calendar year of the grant,
except as provided herein, or by the terms of the license or otherwise by law.
   (F)   Each license certificate and all other information required under the
Amusement Games Licensing Law to be posted upon licensed premises shall be
conspicuously displayed at the place or places where the redemption amusement
games are to be conducted, at all times during the conduct thereof.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 335-18, passed 10-15-18)
§ 101.03 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   Every license applicant must be at least 18 years of age and shall submit to
the Township Clerk the following facts and information, in writing, upon such
form or forms as the Township Clerk may specify and sign the same, accompanied
by the following things, all of which shall constitute the application:
   (A)   A statement of the identities of the applicant and the intended
operator and making clear whether each of the applicant and intended operator
is an individual or individuals, corporation or corporations, partnership or
partnerships or other unincorporated associations or entities, as the case may
in fact be; if a corporation, the state and country in which incorporated.
   (B)   With respect to and in addition to the facts and information required
under division (A) above: the names, addresses, ages and fingerprints of every
individual, of every partner of a partnership; of every incorporator, director
and officer of a corporation; and of every owner and principal of an
unincorporated association and/or entity. Such fingerprints shall be furnished
by each applicable individual's submitting to fingerprinting at and by the
Township Police Department; provided, however, that the Township Police
Department shall from time to time waive any requirements of fingerprints
during times when a process for investigation of fingerprints is not reasonably
available through external governmental agencies such as the Federal Bureau of
Investigation or the State Police of New Jersey.
   (C)   The results of a background check to be conducted by the applicant of
the intended manager or managers of the arcade or indoor amusement park for
which the license is sought, including the intended manager's name, address and
age, to be reviewed and approved by the Voorhees Police Department. The
Voorhees Police Department may, in its discretion, require any additional
information it may deem necessary or the fingerprints of the manager or
managers prior to approval.
   (D)   The prior criminal record of the applicant and intended operator and
of every individual, partnership, corporation, association, entity, partner,
incorporator, director, officer, owner and principal referred to in divisions
(A) and (B) above, if any, and any intended manager or managers of the arcade
or indoor amusement park for which a background check is submitted to the
Voorhees Police Department pursuant to division (C) above, setting forth the
date or dates of conviction, the nature of the offense and the jurisdiction in
which the offense occurred.
   (E)   A full description of all game machines and devices initially to be
installed, placed, kept or located by the applicant and the manner and details
of the operation by which they will be made available to the public; the
maximum number of game machines (which may have more than one coin slot each,
but still be counted as one machine) and devices to be kept on the premises at
any time, which number shall never exceed 150. The applicant shall plan,
design, show, implement and at all times operate, act and carry out the
foregoing and with respect to the foregoing to assure reasonable protection of
the health, safety, morals and welfare of the public. In so doing, the
applicant shall give full regard to the requirements, standards and limitations
of §
101.09.
   (F)   The street number and description of the premises and of the areas and
places within the premises where the automatic commercial games are to be
operated, stating the number of floor or floors of the premises and attaching a
sketch accurately showing the rooms and areas, walls, partitions and other
structures therein. All such matters shall be designed, shown and implemented
to assure reasonable protection of the health, safety, morals and welfare of
the public.
   (G)   A description of all security measures, security personnel, security
safeguards and policies to be kept in effect during pertinent times. Said
security measures, personnel, safeguards and policy shall assure and shall be
implemented to give reasonable protection of the health, safety, morals and
welfare of the public.
   (H)   Detailed information.
      (1)   Except in the case of an indoor amusement park located in a mall:
detailed information demonstrating how noise will be controlled and contained
so as not to have a detrimental effect on any person or property outside the
licensed premises or interfere with the reasonable use of neighboring
structures and premises; such detailed information shall be submitted by a
recognized sound expert, including at the hearing on the application; upon any
application for a premises license renewal, the applicant shall, on request of
the township, submit detailed information of the actual noise-control
experience at the premises and the actual experience of the impact of noise on
persons and property outside the licensed premises during prior periods of
operation at the licensed premises, and, upon the occasion of consideration of
any application for premises license renewal, the Township Committee may impose
or change reasonable noise-level and noise-control requirements, conditions,
restrictions and limitations.
      (2)   Detailed information concerning all planned and contemplated
lighting of the premises sufficient to permit a clear view of all interiors of
the rooms and other areas housing games and/or children's rides.
      (3)   Detailed information demonstrating conformity and how the
applicant's planned and contemplated operation will conform to all applicable
fire laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (I)   The signed written consent of the owner of the premises contemplated
for licensing or of the owner's designated representative.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
§ 101.04 APPLICATION INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Township Administrator shall cause each completed application to
be investigated.
   (B)   The Township Administrator shall submit each completed application and
investigation report to the Township Committee.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
§ 101.05 HEARING.
   (A)   The Township Committee, after receiving both the completed application
and the investigation report, shall conduct a hearing upon such completed
application and thereafter shall determine whether or not the applicant has
complied with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Hearings shall be conducted by the Township Committee or any committee
or officer designated by it, in accordance and compliance with such procedural
steps as the Township Committee shall direct. In every decision whether or not
to grant a license or renew a license, the health, safety and general welfare
of the public shall be taken into consideration. To that end, all prior
violations of this chapter and other relevant provisions of any ordinance,
regulation or other law, their seriousness and the harm and likelihood of harm
to the public will be material. Whenever a decision is made to grant or renew a
license, reasonable conditions and limitations may be imposed, which conditions
and limitations shall be and be deemed for all purposes part of the license.
The decision shall set forth, in writing, findings of fact, conclusions and
reasons therefore. A copy of the decision shall be sent by the Township Clerk
to the applicant.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
§ 101.06 LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Premises license. A licensed operator shall annually apply to renew a
premises license by filing notice with the Township Clerk between October 1 and
October 31 of any calendar year preceding the calendar year for which said
license is to be renewed. The notice shall be accompanied by payment of that
part of the annual fee as provided in §
101.07(B)(1) (and, if applicable, §
101.07(B)(2)) of this chapter and by a written statement signed by the
applicant setting forth, in detail, all facts and information necessary to
satisfy the requirements of §
101.03 to the extent that such facts and information were not included in or
with or have changed since the initial application of the applicant for the
same premises.
   (B)   Objections. An objection to the renewal of any license shall be filed
with the Township Clerk. Every objection shall be in writing and signed by the
person making the objection, showing legibly his or her full name and
residential address. A hearing on each such objection to renewal, filed no
later than November 10, shall be held as the Township Committee shall direct
and in accordance with §
101.05(B). Absent such a written timely objection, a license renewal
application may be processed administratively without hearing upon the vote of
the Township Committee to waive a hearing.
   (C)   Hearings. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with §
101.05. A licensed operator shall be entitled to continue the operation of the
licensed premises until decision on the application.
   (D)   Committee may refuse to renew a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, after a hearing upon notice, only in the event that the applicant:
      (1)   Shall engage in or permit any unlawful conduct in, on or about the
establishment, building, structure, premises or place to which such license
applies;
      (2)   Shall conduct the business or commercial enterprise for which such
license shall have been issued, or shall use or occupy or permit to be used or
occupied the establishment, building, structure, premises or place to which
such license applied, in such manner as to create any public or private
nuisance;
      (3)   Shall permit the establishment, building, structure, premises or
place to which such license applies to be or become, wholly or in part,
unsanitary or unsafe for persons lawfully entering and making use of the same
or any part thereof; or
      (4)   Any of the information contained in the application for renewal is
materially false.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
§ 101.07 LICENSE FEES; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   License. Each applicant shall pay to the Clerk an annual fee as
provided in division (B) of this section. The portions of the fee required
under divisions (B)(l) and (B)(2) of this section shall be submitted with the
application and shall be nonrefundable. When an application has been approved
by decision pursuant to §
101.05 by the Township Committee, the Clerk shall notify the applicant of the
approval, and the Township Clerk shall issue a premises license to the
applicant in accordance with the decision for use only by the intended operator
disclosed in the applicant's application. The premises license shall state on
its face the numbers of automatic commercial game machines (each of which may
have more than one coin slot) which may be operated at one time at the licensed
premises, which number shall never exceed 150, and the number of children's
rides not included within the definition of "automatic commercial game" or
"game" contained in §
101.01 which may be operated at one time at the licensed premises, which number
for establishments other than indoor amusement parks shall never exceed two.
All terms and provisions of the applicant's application and all conditions and
limitations, if any, imposed pursuant to §
101.05(B) and/or every other section hereof shall be and be deemed, for all
purposes, part of the license issued, whether or not expressed on the face of
the license. Nothing herein shall relieve the applicant or establishment from
securing the annual mercantile license issued in accordance with
Chapter 110 of the Code of the Township of Voorhees.
   (B)   Fees. The applicable fee for an annual license or renewal thereof,
subject to division (C) of this section, shall be the aggregate of the
following:
      (1)   One thousand dollar application fee.
      (2)   An investigation charge for each individual whose fingerprints are
submitted; the investigation charge shall be in the amount of the fee charged
by the external governmental agency which will perform the fingerprint
investigation process (which amount shall be determined by the Township Police
Department) and shall be delivered by a separate check made payable as directed
by the Township Police Department.
      (3)   An amount equal to the lesser of: $250; or $10 times the number of
automatic commercial games, payable before the issuance of the license in the
case of an application which shall have been approved.
   (C)   Period less than a year. Where the applicable license period begins
later than January 1 of a year, neither the $1,000 portion of the fee referred
to in division (B)(l) of this section nor the fee referred to in division (B)
(2) of this section shall be prorated, but the portion of the fee referred to
in division (B) of this section shall be prorated accordingly. Where the period
ends before December 31 of a year, no part of the fee shall be prorated.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
§ 101.08 NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable from one
place to another, from the applicant to any other person nor from one operator
to another.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
§ 101.09 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The licensed operator shall maintain a trained premises supervisor on
duty whenever the licensed premises are open to the public, whose duties are
solely to maintain security and good order, to enforce compliance with this
chapter, to provide for proper operation of the automatic commercial games on
the premises and to make change and provide other game-related services to
patrons of the licensed premises.
   (B)   All automatic commercial games accessible to the public and all
interior walls, partitions, appliances, equipment, machinery, apparatus and
other things within and on any licensed premises shall be arranged and lighted
so as to permit a clear view of all interiors of the rooms and other areas
housing games.
   (C)   Within each room or other area housing games accessible to the public
for use thereof, the density of the games shall never exceed an average ratio
of one game to 15 square feet of floor area accessible to the public for use of
the games. For the purpose of this ratio, all areas in which games either may
not be located or customarily are not located (e.g., employee-only areas,
restrooms, stairways, foyers, halls, closets and storage areas and power and
utility areas) shall be excluded.
   (D)   No operation of any automatic commercial game shall be permitted
except:
      (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Mondays through
Saturdays; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Sundays.
   (E)   No operator or other person shall offer or deliver or permit to be
offered or delivered any prizes or awards, whether in cash or otherwise, as an
inducement to the use of any automatic commercial game, with the following
exceptions.
      (1)   Distributing vouchers, coupons and the like, each redeemable at the
licensed premises for no more than $20 worth of free games per coupon.
      (2)   Awarding free games as prizes (to a maximum value of not more than
$20 in free games per prize) for contests involving games of skill or for
achieving specified scores in the performance of games of skill.
      (3)   Distributing promotional items with a wholesale value not exceeding
$20 per each item, such as Frisbees, t-shirts, hats, etc., which items must
bear the operator's name and logo.
      (4)   Awarding value-based coupons, based on times played on a machine
and/or a specific score or performance. Such coupons shall be redeemable for
merchandise from the redemption center permitted in division (E)(5) of this
section.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the retail value of such merchandise
prize or prizes to be offered or awarded in any game or for an accumulation of
wins from a series of games or plays shall not exceed an average retail value
of $2,000.
   (F)   No operator shall permit any person using an automatic commercial game
to operate the same for any gambling purpose prohibited by law. In the event
that it shall be determined judicially or admitted by the operator that any
automatic commercial game shall have been operated as a gambling device, the
applicable premises' license shall immediately terminate and become null and
void.
      (1)   Each licensed arcade or indoor amusement park shall be permitted
one redemption center for the purposes of redeeming coupons issued under
division (E)(4) of this section. The redemption center shall be limited to an
area of 700 square feet.
   (G)   No operator of an arcade (which is not an indoor amusement park) shall
permit any individual under the age of 17 years on the licensed premises
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on any day when Eastern High
School is in session.
   (H)   No licensed operator shall permit any substantial deviation from any
term, provision, condition or limitation of his or her license imposed pursuant
to §§
101.03,
101.05(B),
101.06(C),
101.07 and
101.09 or any other section of this chapter or imposed by law.
   (I)   No operator shall permit the noise level on any licensed premises to
interfere with the reasonable use of neighboring structures or premises.
   (J)   No operator shall permit smoking or the striking of matches,
production of flame or ignition of any material within areas to which the
public is invited.
   (K)   No game machine or device available for play shall exhibit, display,
generate or impart any message or matter which is patently obscene, indecent or
calculated to debase the morals of minors.
   (L)   Except in the case of an indoor amusement park, no game machine or
device available for play, use or operation shall be placed or located within
one-half foot of any other game machine or device, except where a wall or other
effective barrier physically separates a game machine from other game machines
and devices and the playing spaces in front of them; provided, however, that
such wall or barrier shall never interfere with, prevent or hinder the clear
view of all interiors required under division (B) of this section.
   (M)   Upon conviction of any violation of this chapter, all licenses held by
the applicant and/or used by the licensed operator so convicted shall
immediately terminate and become null and void; provided, however, that such
termination shall not constitute a bar to any new application under this
chapter.
   (N)   Incorporating provisions of law, regulations and this section. Each
provision of the Amusement Games Control Act (N.J.S.A. 5:8-78 through N.J.S.A.
5:8-99 inclusive), Amusement Games Licensing Law (N.J.S.A. 5:8-100 through
N.J.S.A. 5:8-119 inclusive), and the regulations promulgated by the Commission,
governing the licensing and operation of amusement games (N.J.A.C. 13:3-
1 through N.J.A.C. 13:3-7.9 inclusive), including any amendments thereto duly
enacted subsequent to the effective date of this section are by reference
hereby incorporated as provisions of this section as if they were herein at
length set forth. Any violation of any provision of law or regulations by a
licensee shall be a violation not only of the law or regulation, but also of
this section. Any duty or responsibility of a licensee set forth in the law or
regulations is also a duty or responsibility of the licensee under this
section.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 335-18, passed 10-15-18)
§ 101.10 TRANSITIONAL RULES.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, any license issued and outstanding
which expresses on its face a certain number of games shall be deemed to
express such number of games for the unexpired term of said license as is
permitted under this chapter.
(Ord. 185-11, passed 4-11-11)
CHAPTER 102: SPONSORSHIP POLICY
Section
   
102.01   Statement of policy
   
102.02   Definition of terms
   
102.03   Authority structure for review and approval
   
102.04   Criteria for proposal review
   
102.05   Permissible sponsors and message content
   
102.06   Permissible recognition message
§ 102.01 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The Township of Voorhees will seek sponsors that further its mission
by providing monetary or in-kind support for Township's programs or services.
The Township of Voorhees recognizes that the public trust and perception of its
impartiality may be damaged by sponsorships that are aesthetically displeasing,
politically oriented, or offensive to segments of its citizenry. When the
Township loses public trust and public perception of impartiality, its ability
to govern effectively in the interest of its citizens is impaired. Therefore,
the Township of Voorhees permits private sponsorship of government programs or
services in limited circumstances as a means to generate funds for improving or
expanding those programs and services. The Township of Voorhees maintains its
sponsorship program as a nonpublic forum and exercises sole discretion over who
is eligible to become a sponsor according to the terms of this policy.
   (B)   Whenever possible, sponsorships should be linked to specific
activities, events, programs, or publications. The Township of Voorhees will
neither seek nor accept sponsors that manufacture products or take positions
inconsistent with local, state, or federal law or with Township policies,
positions, or ordinances. The establishment of a sponsorship agreement does not
constitute an endorsement by the Township of Voorhees of the sponsor's
organization, products, or services.
(Ord. 245-14, passed 4-28-14)
§ 102.02 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   SPONSORSHIP. The right of an external entity (for-profit or not-for-profit)
to associate its name, products, or services with the Township of Voorhees'
programs, services, or name. Sponsorship is a business relationship in which
the Township of Voorhees and the external entity exchange goods, services, and
donations for the public display of a message on Township property
acknowledging private support.
(Ord. 245-14, passed 4-28-14)
§ 102.03 AUTHORITY STRUCTURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Township of Voorhees possesses sole and final decision-making
authority for determining the appropriateness of a sponsorship relationship and
reserves the right to refuse any offer of sponsorship. Sponsorship agreement
proposals will be reviewed according to the following procedures and
guidelines:
      (1)   All sponsorships shall be approved in consultation with the
Township Solicitor.
      (2)   Sponsorship agreements projected to generate $1,000 or more shall
require the written approval of the Township Administrator, who shall inform
the Township Committee of the Township of Voorhees.
      (3)   Sponsorship agreements projected to generate less than $1,000 shall
require the written approval of the department head.
   (B)   In the discretion of the Township Administrator, any proposed
sponsorship agreement may be referred to the Township Committee of the Township
of Voorhees for approval.
(Ord. 245-14, passed 4-28-14)
§ 102.04 CRITERIA FOR PROPOSAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Proposals for sponsorship of the Township of Voorhees' programs or
services shall be reviewed on the basis of a draft memorandum of understanding
that clearly outlines the forms of support offered by the sponsor and the
recognition to be given by the Township of Voorhees. A memorandum of
understanding shall be created for each sponsorship relationship. It shall
detail the following information, at a minimum:
      (1)   Activities, products, and services of the private entity and its
subsidiaries.
      (2)   Benefits to be given to the proposed sponsor by the Township of
Voorhees, and the estimated monetary value of those benefits.
      (3)   Benefits to be given to the Township of Voorhees by the proposed
sponsor and the estimated monetary value of those benefits.
      (4)   Prominence of the proposed public recognition of support.
      (5)   Content of the proposed public recognition of support.
      (6)   Duration of the proposed public recognition of support.
      (7)   Conditions under which the sponsorship agreement will be
terminated.
   (B)   The Township of Voorhees recognizes that entering into a sponsorship
agreement with an external entity does not constitute an endorsement of the
entity or its services and products but does imply an affiliation. Such
affiliation can affect the reputation of the Township of Voorhees among its
citizens and its ability to govern effectively. Therefore, any proposal for
sponsorship of a Township program or service in which the involvement of an
outside entity compromises the public's perception of the Township's neutrality
or its ability to act in the public interest will be rejected.
   (C)   The Township of Voorhees shall consider the following criteria before
entering into a sponsorship agreement:
      (1)   Extent and prominence of the public display of sponsorship.
      (2)   Aesthetic characteristics of the public display of sponsorship.
      (3)   Importance of the sponsorship to the mission of the Township.
      (4)   Level of support provided by the sponsor.
      (5)   Cooperation necessary from other Township units to implement the
sponsorship.
      (6)   Inconsistencies between the Township's policies and the known
policies or practices of the potential sponsor.
      (7)   Other factors that might undermine public confidence in the
township's impartiality or interfere with the efficient delivery of township
services or operations, including, but not limited to, current or potential
conflicts of interest between the sponsor and Township employees, officials, or
affiliates; and the potential for the sponsorship to tarnish the Township's
standing among its citizens or otherwise impair the ability of the Township of
Voorhees to govern its citizens.
(Ord. 245-14, passed 4-28-14)
§ 102.05 PERMISSIBLE SPONSORS AND MESSAGE CONTENT.
   (A)   Sponsorships on the Township of Voorhees' property are maintained as a
nonpublic forum. The Township of Voorhees intends to preserve its rights and
discretion to exercise full editorial control over the placement, content,
appearance, and wording of sponsorship affiliations and messages. The Township
of Voorhees may make distinctions on the appropriateness of sponsors on the
basis of subject matter of a potential sponsorship recognition message. The
Township of Voorhees will not deny sponsorship opportunities on the basis of
the potential sponsor's viewpoint.
   (B)   Sponsorship from an organization that is engaged in any of the
following activities, that has a mission supporting any of the following
subject matters, or that, in the sole discretion and judgment of the authorized
representative of the Township, is deemed to be unsuitable for and contrary to
community standards of appropriateness for government publications, shall be
prohibited on any Township property:
      (1)   Promotion of the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages, or
promotion of establishments that are licensed to sell and primarily do sell
alcoholic beverages, including bars; provided, however, that food service
establishments or places of lodging may be authorized only when the sale of
alcohol is incidental to providing food service or lodging.
      (2)   Promotion of the sale or consumption of tobacco products.
      (3)   Promotion of the sale of birth control products or services.
      (4)   Commentary, advocacy, or promotion of issues, candidates, and
campaigns pertaining to political elections.
      (5)   Depiction in any form of profanity or obscenity, or promotion of
sexually oriented products, activities, or materials.
      (6)   Promotion of the sale or use of firearms, explosives, or other
weapons, or glorification of violent acts.
      (7)   Promotion or depiction of illegal products, or glorification of
illegal products, activities, or materials.
(Ord. 245-14, passed 4-28-14)
§ 102.06 PERMISSIBLE RECOGNITION MESSAGES.
   (A)   Sponsorship recognition messages may identify the sponsor but should
not promote or endorse the organization or its products or services. Statements
that advocate, contain price information or an indication of associated savings
or value, request a response, or contain comparative or qualitative
descriptions of products, services, or organizations will not be accepted. Only
the following content will be deemed appropriate:
      (1)   The legally recognized name of the advertising organization.
      (2)   The advertiser's organizational slogan if it identifies rather than
promotes the organization or its products or services.
      (3)   The advertiser's product or service line, described in brief,
generic, objective terms. Generally, only one product or service line may be
identified.
      (4)   Brief contact information for the advertiser's organization, such
as phone number, address, or Internet website. Contact information must be
stated in a manner that avoids an implication of urging the reader to action.
   (B)   The Township of Voorhees will not make any statements that directly or
indirectly advocate or endorse a sponsor's organization, products, or services.
   (C)   No materials or communications, including, but not limited to, print,
video, Internet, broadcast, or display items developed to promote or
communicate the sponsorship using the Township of Voorhees' name, marks, or
logo, may be issued without written approval from the Township Administrator
and Township solicitor.
(Ord. 245-14, passed 4-28-14)
CHAPTER 103: SNOW REMOVAL
Section
   
103.01   Responsibility of owner or tenant
   
103.02   Failure to comply
   
103.03   Depositing snow or ice on streets
 
   
103.99   Penalty
§ 103.01 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR TENANT.
   (A)   The owner or owners, occupant or occupants, or tenant or tenants in
possession of any lands abutting or bordering upon the sidewalks and gutters of
any street in the Township shall remove or cause to be removed all snow and/or
ice therefrom, within 12 hours after the same shall cease to fall or be formed
thereon.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation or partnership or the owner, tenant,
lessee or occupant of any premises having parking spaces reserved for
handicapped drivers or any contractor employed for the removal of snow and ice
shall block access to parking spaces reserved for handicapped drivers by the
plowing, piling or placement of snow and ice in such reserved spaces.
(Ord. 274-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 103.02 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In cases where the owner or tenant shall have failed or refused to remove
said snow and/or ice within the time provided in §
103.01, the Township Administrator, or his designee, may remove or cause to be
removed the same. In the event that the Township Administrator, or his
designee, shall remove or cause to be removed the same, he shall certify the
cost thereof to Township Committee. Upon receipt of the certificate, Township
Committee shall examine the same and, if found correct, shall cause such cost
to be charged against the lands abutting as aforesaid. The amount so charged
shall thereupon become a lien and tax upon such lands and shall be added to and
become part of the taxes next to be levied and assessed upon such lands. Said
amount shall bear interest at the same rate and shall be enforced and collected
by the Tax Collector in the same manner as any other taxes, all in accordance
with N.J.S.A. 40:65-12.
(Ord. 274-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 103.03 DEPOSITING SNOW OR ICE ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person, including the owner or occupant of any lands or premises
abutting or bordering upon any street, shall place, deposit, throw or shovel
any snow or ice into or upon that portion of any such street which has been
cleaned, plowed or shoveled of snow or ice by the Township or by any
governmental agency or authority or by any public utility having and exercising
a franchise or permit to operate autobuses along any streets in the Township at
any time after said street has been cleaned or plowed as aforesaid.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any lands or premises abutting or bordering
upon any street shall cause, allow or permit any person to do or perform any of
said conduct prohibited by division (A) above.
(Ord. 274-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 103.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Voorhees
Township Police Department, the Director of Public Works, the Code Enforcement
Officers or the Township Administrator.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not exceeding $1,000 or
imprisoned for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both, and each and every day
in which said violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   The imposition and collection of the penalty or penalties imposed by
division (B) above shall not bar the right of the Township to collect the costs
of removal as provided in §
103.02 hereof.
(Ord. 274-16, passed 2-22-16)
CHAPTER 104: HENS IN VOORHEES
Section
   
104.01   Establishing rules and regulations
   
104.02   Eligibility; restrictions; coops and runs
   
104.03   License required; fee; completion of class required
   
104.04   Requirements for coops
   
104.05   Creation of “Hen Advisory Board”; complaints
   
104.06   Revocation of license
§ 104.01 ESTABLISHING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter established a permanent program to authorize the residents of
the Township of Voorhees to keep backyard hens, subject to certain terms and
conditions set forth herein.
(Ord. 366-20, passed 7-13-20)
§ 104.02 ELIGIBILITY; RESTRICTIONS; COOPS AND RUNS.
   (A)   The following shall be eligible to participate in this program;
residents of single-family homes or residents of “twin” or “row” homes which
meet the criteria set forth in this section.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, no more than 40 licenses will be issued
at $10 each, on an annual basis.
   (C)   There shall be a limit of eight hens per license. Roosters are
prohibited.
   (D)   The coop and run, located in the backyard, shall not exceed 120 square
feet and shall be located no closer than 20 feet from the windows and/or doors
of the habitable portion of the neighboring residential dwelling. Garages,
attached or otherwise, and accessory buildings shall not be considered a
“residential dwelling” for purposes of calculating the required distance. Hens
may temporarily “free range” outside of the coop in a suitably contained area
provided that an adult, age 18 or older, is present the entire time. A
predator-proof run must be attached to the coop and must also be 20 feet from
the habitable portion of the neighboring residential dwelling.
(Ord. 366-20, passed 7-13-20; Am. Ord. 390-21, passed 10-12-21)
§ 104.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; COMPLETION OF CLASS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall keep hens on their property without first obtaining a
license from the Municipal Clerk’s Office and paying the required fee. No
license shall be issued unless the applicant has demonstrated compliance with
all criteria set forth herein.
   (B)   A non-refundable one-time license fee of $10 shall be paid for each
license issued for participation annually. No more than one license may be
issued per household.
   (C)   Each applicant wishing to participate in the program to keep backyard
hens shall be required to take a class on the basics of raising backyard hens.
Proof of attendance must be represented with the completed application.
   (D)   If a license holder chooses to no longer maintain a coop, their
license will be made available to a new licensee.
(Ord. 366-20, passed 7-13-20; Am. Ord. 390-21, passed 10-12-21)
§ 104.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR COOPS.
   Participant shall comply with the following regulations and conditions for
keeping and housing of hens:
   (A)   The coop shall be suitable in size to house the number of hens subject
to this program.
   (B)   The coop shall be dry and well ventilated with windows to admit
sunlight.
   (C)   The coop must be kept clean.
   (D)   The coop and enclosed run must be made predator-proof.
   (E)   Clean water must be provided, and food must he kept tightly closed in
a metal container away from the coop and run at night.
   (F)   The yard in the area where the coop is located shall be clean and free
from odors.
   (G)   Waste will be handled by the participant to prevent offensive odors or
disposed in an environmentally friendly manner.
   (H)   There shall be no selling of eggs.
(Ord. 366-20, passed 7-13-20)
§ 104.05 CREATION OF “HEN ADVISORY BOARD”; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   A Hen Advisory Board consisting of six members shall be formed,
including a Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary. The Board shall meet on a regular
basis and keep minutes which shall be submitted along with quarterly reports to
the Liaison for Borough Council. These reports will include any activities of
the Board, as well as any complaints and resolutions from residents concerning
backyard hens.
   (B)   If a complaint is received by the Borough, it will be forwarded to the
Hen Advisory Board for investigation by two members of the Board. If the Board
finds a violation of the regulations, solutions will be discussed with the
offending resident to allow them to meet the requirements of the program as
soon as possible. However, if after 30 days the violation has been remedied,
the Council liaison will be notified so that enforcement proceedings can be
implemented.
   (C)   In lieu thereof, the Voorhees Township Environmental Commission shall
be charged with the responsibilities set forth hereunder.
(Ord. 366-20, passed 7-13-20)
§ 104.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Failure to comply with the conditions and regulations set forth in this
chapter shall result in revocation of the license.
(Ord. 366-20, passed 7-13-20)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   MERCANTILE LICENSING
   
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
112.   GARAGE SALES
   
113.   GASOLINE STATIONS
   
114.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
   
115.   DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS AND SECONDHAND GOODS
   
116.   TOBACCO SALES
   
117.   PAWNBROKERS AND DEALERS IN SECOND-HAND GOODS
   
118.   ANIMAL SHELTER FACILITIES
   
119.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: MERCANTILE LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Registration required
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Applications
   
110.05   Person subject to license
   
110.06   Record; forms of licenses
   
110.07   Investigations
   
110.08   Termination of license
   
110.09   Compliance with other provisions
   
110.10   Mobile food vendors
   
110.11   Change of location
   
110.12   Nuisances
   
110.13   Inspections
   
110.14   Revocation of license
   
110.15   Posting of license
   
110.16   Fee schedule: Schedule A
   
110.17   Fee for unclassified activities
   
110.18   Nonapplicability
   
110.19   Non-transferability of license
   
110.20   Unlicensed business prohibited
   
110.21   Nonapplicability to certain transactions
   
110.22   Purpose of fees
   
110.23   Enforcement
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Mercantile Licensing
Ordinance of the Township of Voorhees."
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on or to allow any
business, trade, occupation or activity as enumerated in this chapter within
the Township or, in using any stand, store or other place or thing for which a
license is required by law, without having first complied with the provisions
of this chapter and obtained a license therefor as herein provided. However,
nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the Township to require
a license or to regulate any person holding a license or certificate issued by
any department, board, commissioner or other agency of the state.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 69-05, passed 6-27-05)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   BUSINESS.  Includes all kinds of vocations, occupations, professions,
enterprises, establishments and all other kinds of activities and matters,
together with all devises, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used therein,
any of which are conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or
indirectly, on any premises in the Township, as set forth in N.J.S.A. 40:52-
1 and Acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   PERSON.  Includes an individual, firm, corporation, or any other
organization entity or association.
   PREMISES.  Includes all land, structures, places and also equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business and also any personal
property which is either affixed to, or is otherwise used in connection with,
any such business conducted on such premises.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses required by this chapter shall be on a
form approved by the Director of Licenses and shall be made in writing no later
than the last business day of the month of July each year.
   (B)   Each application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name under which the business is to be conducted;
      (2)   The name of the owner;
      (3)   The name of the franchise owner, if the business is a franchise;
      (4)   The name of the local store manager;
      (5)   The address of the owner;
 
      (6)   The local telephone number of the business;
      (7)   The type of business being conducted;
      (8)   Federal ID Number or Social Security Number; and
      (9)   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 69-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 444-23,
passed 12-27-23)
§ 110.05 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license is required for the maintenance, operation or conduct of
any business or establishment, or for doing any business or engaging in any
activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if, by himself or herself or through an agent, employee or partner,
he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the business or
occupation or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively, or performs
or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in the Township
or otherwise owns the premises in which the maintenance or operation of any
business or establishment is being conducted. Any business which is exempt from
licensing pursuant to this chapter that holds a license or certificate issued
by any department, board, commissioner or other agency of the state, which has
a retail business attached or included therein, shall be required to be
licensed in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 69-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 246-14,
passed 5-12-14)
§ 110.06 RECORD; FORMS OF LICENSES.
   All licenses, permits and applications therefor shall be prepared and kept
on file by the Director of Licenses, which shall be the Township Clerk or the
Deputy Township Clerk, and each license or permit shall bear the signature of
the Director of Licenses, together with the date of the issuance, in the
absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.07 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Township Clerk shall refer
such application to the proper officials or officers for the making of the
necessary investigation or inspection which shall be limited to confirmation
that a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.08 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last business day of June of each
year.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 444-23, passed 12-27-23)
§ 110.09 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   P.L. 2022, c. 92, signed into law on August 5, 2022, institutes a new
minimum liability insurance requirement for owners of businesses and rental
units (whether residential or non-residential). Such owners will be required to
annually register the certificate of insurance in the municipality where the
business or rental unit is located.
   (B)   Effective for new insurance policies issued on or after November 3,
2022, the law will require the owner of a business, or one or more rental
units, to maintain liability insurance for negligent acts and omissions in an
amount of no less than $500,000 for combined property damage and bodily injury
to or death of one or more persons in any one accident or occurrence. Such
insurance could be provided as part of policies such as those for commercial
general liability, personal liability, or an umbrella insurance policy.
However, owner-occupied two-family, three-family, or four-family homes are
subject to a lower $300,000 coverage minimum which becomes effective for
insurance policies issued on or after February 1, 2023.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 444-23, passed 12-27-23)
§ 110.10 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   All mobile vendors licensed under this chapter shall conform to the
following standards:
   (B)   Geographical restrictions. Mobile food vendors shall not:
      (1)   Operate within 400 feet of public or private school grounds during
the hours of regular school session, classes, or school-related events in the
public or private school, except when authorized by the school.
      (2)   Operate within 1,000 feet of a public park or Township property
except as approved by the Township Administrator or designee.
      (3)   Stop or stand within any right-of-way or within 50 feet of any
intersection.
      (4)   Stop or stand on any arterial street during peak traffic hours,
generally between 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., Monday
through Friday.
      (5)   Operate the mobile food vending vehicle in such a manner as to
impede the normal usage of the streets located within the municipality. No
mobile food vendor shall operate on any street located within the municipality
unless there exists sufficient adjacent parking for customers so as not to
endanger the safety of customers and so that traffic is not impacted.
(Ord. 246-14, passed 5-12-14)
§ 110.11 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
activity, may be changed upon submission of a Certificate of Occupancy for the
new location and the payment of a $5 fee, for the purpose of modifying existing
records filed with the Director of Licenses.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.12 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted, carried on or operated
so as to amount to a nuisance in fact.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.13 INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of the licensed business activity or occupation are provided for or
required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to
admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or
employee of the Township who is authorized or directed to make such
inspections, at any reasonable time that admission is required.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.14 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Township Committee shall have the right to suspend or revoke any license
or permit whenever the holder thereof or any of the licensee's agents or
servants violate any provisions of this chapter, the laws of the state or any
rules or regulations promulgated as herein provided. Prior to the revocation of
a license, a written notice of the contemplated action of the Township
Committee shall be served upon said licensee, setting forth each charge as may
be the reason for said proposed revocation and the place, date and hour when
the Township Committee will hear the matter. The licensee may be represented by
counsel at such hearing.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.15 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under this chapter shall be posted at the place of business
shown on said license, in a conspicuous place. Said license shall remain posted
for the duration of the licensing year when issued and so long as the business
is in operation.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.16 FEE SCHEDULE: SCHEDULE A.
   (A)   An initial licensing fee of $60 shall be paid to the Township Clerk at
the time the applicant
submits the registration form required by § 110.04. Thereafter, an annual
licensing fee of $60 shall be paid on or before July 31 of each year. If any
person or entity, who is required to obtain a license or permit pursuant to
this chapter, does not obtain such a license or permit by July 31 of the
respective year, the Township Clerk will assess a late fee in the amount of
$30.
   (B)   Schedule A shall read as follows:
      Advertising business
      Antique store
      Appliance, retail or wholesale
      Auction, goods commonly sold at auction
      Auto accessory store
      Auto body shop
      Auto garage, paid parking
      Auto repair
      Carnival
      Car wash, automatic
      Circus
      Concessions, independent within an established store
      Confectioner
      Dancing academy or studio
      Delicatessen, retail food
      Diner
      Drugs patent medicine and medical supplies
      Dry cleaning establishments
      Dry goods and notions
      Electric supplies
      Florist
      Flower plants, shrubs and garden supplies
      Food and drink
      Food store
      Fortune teller
      Fruit and produce stand, retail and wholesale
      Furniture and house furnishings
      Gas station, services, repairs, towing
      Golf course, miniature
      Hardware, wholesale or retail
      Health spa
      Hotel or motel
      Ice dealer
      Ice cream parlor
      Jeweler, wholesale or retail
      Keys and locksmith
      Landscape
      Laundry business, collection and distribution
      Laundry, self-service
      Laundry, with dry cleaning
      Laundry plant
      Luncheonette, separate or in another establishment
      Lunch wagon
      Lunch wagon establishment
      Machine shop
      Meat, wholesale or retail
      Millinery
      Miscellaneous
      Motorcycle agency
      Newsstand or news dealer
      Oil or fuel supplies or services
      Optical goods
      Pawnbroker
      Photo supplies or photographs
      Plumbing supplies
      Pool hall, separate or as concession
      Radio and television store
      Restaurant, drive-in, fast food
      Restaurant, sit down
      Seafood business
      Secondhand store
      Shoe repair
      Sporting goods store
      Stationary and supplies
      Storage or warehouse
      Stores not classified
      Supermarkets
      Swimming pool, private or commercial
      Theater
      Tool rental
      Trader sales
      Upholsterer
      Wood business, sale of firewood
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 223-12, passed 12-10-12; Am. Ord. 444-23,
passed 12-27-23)
§ 110.17 FEE FOR UNCLASSIFIED ACTIVITIES.
   All businesses, trades and activities which have not been classified or
listed in the schedule of license fees of this chapter for each such location,
or otherwise provided for in any other licensing ordinance of the Township,
shall pay a license fee of $60.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.18 NONAPPLICABILITY
   This chapter shall not apply to any business or occupation licenses under
those various laws of this state which prohibits licensing by municipalities.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.19 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE.
   No license or permit provided for by this chapter shall be transferred from
one person to another, and no license shall cover any other place of business
other than that for which it was issued.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.20 UNLICENSED BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall be permitted to engage in, carry on or conduct
any business under any license or permit granted under this chapter except that
business for which said license was issued.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.21 NONAPPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to orders taken outside the Township, nor to
soliciting of orders by wholesale dealers from retail dealers, nor to
deliveries by wholesale dealers to retail dealers, nor to the sale or delivery
of newspapers, magazines or periodicals.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.22 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   The fees herein imposed for business and mercantile licenses are revenue
producing in nature, but said fees are used primarily in an attempt to cover
the costs of administration and inspections of such businesses, to assure
compliance with the laws of the state and the ordinances of the Township. It is
the intent of this chapter to ensure the fact that all businesses of whatever
kind and wherever situate in this Township shall be inspected periodically to
ensure compliance with the laws as aforesaid. In certain instances, there are
those businesses which warrant additional police surveillance and inspection.
There are those businesses which attract an unusual amount of vehicular
traffic, necessitating additional regulation and enforcement. These fees
provide a reasonable relationship to the cost of the regulation and
administration.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of Police, the Township Clerk, the Deputy Township Clerk and any
police officer of the Township has the authority to examine all places of
business and all persons of the Township to determine if this chapter has been
complied with and to enforce the provisions of this chapter against any person
found to be violating the same.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine not exceeding $500, or to imprisonment not exceeding 30 days or both.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 9-10-01)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Hours of sale
   
111.03   Sale to minors or intoxicated persons
Licensing Provisions
   
111.20   License required
   
111.21   Licensing
   
111.22   License fees; payment
   
111.23   Applications
   
111.24   Display of license
   
111.25   Suspension or revocation of license
Number of Licenses
   
111.26   Plenary retail consumption licenses
   
111.27   Plenary retail distribution licenses
   
111.28   Club licenses
   
111.29   Seasonal retail consumption license
   
111.30   Hotel licenses
   
111.31   Standards, procedures and conditions of liquor license awards; bid
method
Possession and Consumption
   
111.40   Consumption on public or private real property
   
111.41   Discarding of containers
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Editor's note:
   Sections
111.03 and
111.25 were amended at time of adoption of the 1974 code (12-30-74); see
Chapter 10, General Provisions. Other amendments are noted as applicable in the
histories.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of §§
111.01 through
111.25 the following definition shall apply:
   PERSON. Individual natural persons, partnerships, joint ventures, societies,
associations, clubs, trustees, trusts, corporations, unincorporated groups,
limited liability companies or any officer, agent, employee, servant or factors
or any kind of personal representative of any of the foregoing, in any
capacity, acting either for himself or for any other person under either
personal appointment or pursuant to law.
('74 Code, § 36-6) (Ord. passed 5-1-46)
§ 111.02 HOURS OF SALE.
   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, served or delivered, nor shall any
licensee suffer or permit the sale, service or delivery of any alcoholic
beverage, directly or indirectly, or open for business any place so licensed,
between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., local prevailing time, any
weekday or Sunday; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall
prevent the proprietors of bona fide restaurants equipped for and actually
engaged in the serving of meals, and who shall serve meals in a room entirely
disconnected and separate from the bar or other room in which alcoholic
beverages may be displayed, stored, mixed or dispensed, and who may be licensed
under this chapter for the sale of alcoholic beverages, from conducting the
restaurant business and from serving meals in the hours herein specified. All
parts of licensed premises where alcoholic beverages shall be sold shall be
cleared of all patrons between the hours of 3:15 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., prevailing
time.
('74 Code, § 36-8) (Ord. passed 5-1-46; Am. Ord. passed 9-12-62; Am. Ord.
passed 4-8-65)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 SALE TO MINORS OR INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No licensee shall sell, serve, deliver or allow, permit or suffer the
service or delivery of any alcoholic beverage, directly or indirectly, to any
person under the minimum age provided by law or anyone under the influence of
alcoholic beverages or allow, permit or suffer the consumption of alcoholic
beverages by any such persons upon the licensed premises.
('74 Code, § 36-9) (Ord. passed 5-1-46; Am. Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74)
Penalty, see § 111.99
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 111.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall not be lawful for any person or persons to operate, use or maintain
any store, vehicle, dwelling or other building of any kind for the sale or
exposure for sale of beverages authorized by N.J.S.A. 33:1-1 et seq., as the
same may be amended (the “Act”) within the Township, without first having
obtained a license therefor pursuant to the Act.
('74 Code, § 36-1) (Ord. passed 5-1-46)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.21 LICENSING.
   Licenses for the sale (retail, plenary, consumption or otherwise) or
distribution of alcoholic beverages shall be issued and renewed as provided
under the Act, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, by the Township
Committee.
§ 111.22 LICENSE FEES; PAYMENT.
   (A)   The fees to be paid to the Township for the issuance and renewal of
alcoholic beverage licenses shall be established as provided in the Act or as
determined by the Township Committee, when authorized by the Act.
   (B)   All license fees shall be paid in cash or by certified check to the
order of the Township, and all such receipts shall be turned over by the
Township Clerk, when and as received, to the Township Treasurer.
('74 Code, § 36-4) (Ord. passed 5-1-46; Am. Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74; Am.
Ord. 227-1984, passed 6-11-84; Am. Ord. 702-1994, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 34-
03, passed 9-22-03)
§ 111.23 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for the license shall be in the form required by law and as
prepared and furnished by the Township Clerk, and each license shall comply
with the terms of the Act, and shall be subject to the terms and provisions
thereof and of §§
111.01 through
111.25.
('74 Code, § 36-5) (Ord. passed 5-1-46)
§ 111.24 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued pursuant to the Act shall be exposed to public view in
a conspicuous place in the licensed premises, and any omission so to do shall
be presumptive evidence that the place where alcoholic beverages are being sold
is unlicensed.
('74 Code, § 36-7) (Ord. passed 5-1-46)
§ 111.25 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to the Act may be suspended or revoked for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or for violation of any of
the provisions of the Act, or of any of the rules and regulations promulgated
by the State Commissioner of Alcoholic Beverage Control, in addition to the
penalties in
§ 111.99.
('74 Code, § 36-7) (Ord. passed 5-1-46)
NUMBER OF LICENSES
§ 111.26 PLENARY RETAIL CONSUMPTION LICENSES.
   The number of plenary retail consumption licenses issued and outstanding at
the same time in the Township shall not exceed ten.
(Ord. 3-01, passed 2-26-01; Am. Ord. 133-08, passed 5-27-08; Am. Ord. 142-09,
passed 3-9-09)
§ 111.27 PLENARY RETAIL DISTRIBUTION LICENSES.
   The number of plenary retail distribution licenses issued and outstanding at
the same time in the Township shall not exceed five.
(Ord. 3-01, passed 2-26-01; Am. Ord. 142-09, passed 3-9-09)
§ 111.28 CLUB LICENSE.
   The number of club licenses issued and outstanding at the same time in the
Township shall not exceed one.
(Ord. 3-01, passed 2-26-01)
§ 111.29 SEASONAL RETAIL CONSUMPTION LICENSE.
   No seasonal retail consumption license shall be issued.
(Ord. 3-01, passed 2-26-01)
§ 111.30 HOTEL LICENSES.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 33:1-12.21, it is the desire of the Township to limit
the issuance of liquor licenses by the Township. Liquor licenses may be issued
to hotels/motels in the Township, provided that the hotels/motels have a
minimum of 100 guest sleeping rooms. The total number of such licenses to be
issued by the Township will be two licenses. A GUEST SLEEPING ROOM shall be
defined as a partitioned part of the inside of a hotel/motel building, which
contains a bed or beds and is maintained primarily for sleeping purposes and
which is let out by its owner, or any agent of its owner, at any time for
compensation, whether on a daily, periodic, weekly or seasonal basis and
whether to relatives, friends, guests or other third parties.
(Ord. 142-09, passed 3-9-09; Am. Ord. 231-13, passed 5-28-13)
§ 111.31 STANDARDS, PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS OF LIQUOR LICENSE AWARDS; BID
METHOD.
   When the Township Committee shall decide, in its discretion, to award an
available license, it shall expose the license to auction in accordance with
the provisions of N.J.S.A. Title 33 and the regulations of the New Jersey
Division of Alcoholic Beverage-Control. The Township Committee may set a
minimum bid amount, establish terms and conditions for the award of the bid and
shall reserve the right to reject all bids. All bidders shall pre-qualify, in
the manner specified by the Township Committee, prior to the submission of
bids. In addition to whatever requirements the Township Committee shall impose,
the prospective bidders, as part of the pre-qualification process, shall submit
proof of financial ability to undertake the purchase of the license and the
contemplated project; information regarding the type, size and special features
of the contemplated licensed premises and records of past alcoholic beverage
control violations involving the prospective bidder or bidder’s principals,
i.e., owners of more than a 10% equity or debt interest. Furthermore,
prospective bidders are required to fulfill any and all requirements of the
Police Department and shall supply any and all information requested by the
Police Department as part of the Township’s pre-qualification process. Failure
to do so may, at the discretion of the Township, result in a prospective bidder
being found unqualified to bid.
(Ord. 3-01, passed 2-26-01; Am. Ord. 142-09, passed 3-9-09)
POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION
§ 111.40 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE REAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall consume alcoholic beverages on public or private real
property, unless the person has been granted express permission for such
consumption by a party authorized to grant such permission.
('74 Code, § 36-19) (Ord. 4-1976, passed 4-26-76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.41 DISCARDING OF CONTAINERS.
   No person shall discard alcoholic beverage containers upon any public or
private property not his or her own without the express permission of the
owner.
('74 Code, § 36-22) (Ord. 4-1976, passed 4-26-76)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall sell or distribute any alcoholic beverage without
having complied with or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
except for §
111.03, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$500 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, in the discretion of
the court. The continuation of such violation for each successive day shall
constitute a separate offense.
('74 Code, § 36-18) (Ord. passed 5-1-46; Am. Ord. 19-1974, passed 12-30-74; Am.
Ord. 958-99, passed 11-8-99)
   (B)   Any person who shall sell or distribute any alcoholic beverage in
violation of §
111.03 shall be subject to suspension or revocation of any license issued
pursuant to the Act.
(Am. Ord. 958-99, passed 11-8-99
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §§
111.40 through
111.41 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $200 or
be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
('74 Code, § 36-23) (Ord. 4-1976, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 958-99, passed 11-8-
99)
CHAPTER 112: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Hours of operation
   
112.02   Sales on legal holidays prohibited
   
112.03   Sales restricted to owners of premises
   
112.04   Number of sales and number of days limited
   
112.05   Sales prohibited on apartment complex premises
   
112.06   Sign regulations
   
112.07   Required setback from curb or highway
   
112.08   Sales to be neat and orderly
   
112.09   Disruption of traffic and parking prohibited
   
112.10   Removal at end of day required
   
112.11   Sale of food and beverages prohibited
   
112.12   Use of sound devices prohibited
§ 112.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A garage or yard sale can be conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:
00 p.m. Monday through Sunday.
('74 Code, § 69-1) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.02 SALES ON LEGAL HOLIDAYS PROHIBITED.
   A garage or yard sale cannot be conducted on any legal holiday.
('74 Code, § 69-2) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.03 SALES RESTRICTED TO OWNERS OF PREMISES.
   A garage or yard sale can only be conducted by the legal owner or legally
authorized occupant of the residential premises on which the sale is being
conducted.
('74 Code, § 69-3) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85; Am. Ord. 935-99, passed 6-
28-99)
§ 112.04 NUMBER OF SALES AND NUMBER OF DAYS LIMITED.
   The registered owner of a property may have three garage or yard sales per
year. Each sale may not consist of more than two consecutive days.
('74 Code, § 69-4) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.05 SALES PROHIBITED ON APARTMENT COMPLEX PREMISES.
   Garage or yard sales are not permitted on the premises of apartment
complexes.
('74 Code, § 69-5) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.06 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Garage or yard sale signs must be set back at least ten feet from the
curb or highway.
   (B)   Only two signs are permitted for a garage or yard sale.
   (C)   A garage or yard sale sign cannot measure more than four feet wide and
four feet high and must be properly mounted to stand free.
   (D)   No garage or yard sale signs can be posted on trees, poles, shrubs,
vehicles, dwellings or structures.
('74 Code, § 69-6) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.07 REQUIRED SETBACK FROM CURB OR HIGHWAY.
   All articles, tables, displays, racks, and the like, must be set back at
least ten feet from the curb or highway.
('74 Code, § 69-7) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.08 SALES TO BE NEAT AND ORDERLY.
   (A)   A garage or yard sale or flea market must be conducted in a neat and
orderly fashion.
   (B)   Small articles or objects must be displayed on tables.
   (C)   Clothing and wearing apparel must be displayed on racks or tables.
('74 Code, § 69-8) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.09 DISRUPTION OF TRAFFIC AND PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Garage or yard sales or flea markets cannot impede nor cause to disrupt
motoring traffic or neighborhood parking.
('74 Code, § 69-9) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.10 REMOVAL AT END OF DAY REQUIRED.
   All garage or yard sale items, tables, displays and signs must be removed
from the premises at the end of each sale day.
('74 Code, § 69-10) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.11 SALE OF FOOD AND BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No food or beverages may be sold or offered free at a yard or garage sale.
('74 Code, § 69-11) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
§ 112.12 USE OF SOUND DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No hawking or sound device, recording system or public address system can be
used at a garage or yard sale.
('74 Code, § 69-12) (Ord. 288-1985, passed 9-30-85)
CHAPTER 113: GASOLINE STATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Hours of operation
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. All buildings, structures, premises, enclosures or
other places where a container or containers, tank or tanks, whether portable
or stationary, containing gasoline, motor oils or any of them, are kept and
located for the purpose of selling or offering for sale any such liquids from
such container or containers, tank or tanks by means of pumps or otherwise.
('74 Code, § 74-1) (Ord. passed 11-11-59)
§ 113.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Gasoline stations operating in the Township shall be prohibited from
operating between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless operated in
accordance with the uses set forth in the Unified Land Development Ordinance of
the Voorhees Township Code, which shall have no limitation upon the hours of
operation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this chapter does not apply to
convenience stores with gasoline fueling stations.
('74 Code, § 74-16) (Ord. 292-1985, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 288-16, passed
10-17-16; Am. Ord. 354-19, passed 9-23-19)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License required; exceptions
   
114.04   Effect of license
   
114.05   Application for license
   
114.06   Approval or rejection of application
   
114.07   Denial or issuance of license; expiration
   
114.08   Revocation of license
   
114.09   Appeal
   
114.10   General regulations
   
114.11   Application fee required
   
114.12   Exceptions
   
114.13   Nonsolicitation sticker
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Deter the use of peddling or soliciting to gain access to homes or
other premises for criminal purposes;
   (B)   Maintain peace, comfort, quiet and privacy for residents of the
Township while balancing the same against the opportunity for peddlers and
solicitors to exercise their rights of free speech;
   (C)   Discourage unethical, dishonest and illegal business practices;
   (D)   Prevent dishonest solicitation of funds;
   (E)   Protect the safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the Township as
well as peddlers and solicitors engaged in such activities within the Township;
and
   (F)   Preserve safety and order in and about the streets, sidewalks,
businesses and public areas in the Township. All application fees to be charged
for the issuance of licenses are not to be considered as revenue, but are
charges for the purpose of covering the expenses of administering this chapter.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. See SOLICITOR.
   COMMERCIAL. Pertaining to or engaging in commerce, or prepared, done or
acting with the sole emphasis on salability or profit. The term COMMERCIAL
shall not include charitable speech.
   INDIVIDUAL. Any natural person.
   ITINERANT VENDOR.  See TRANSIENT MERCHANT.
   MERCHANDISE. All goods, wares, food, drinks, fruits, vegetables, magazines,
subscriptions, periodicals, printed material, farm products, all types of
articles of personal property, all types of orders or contracts for services,
home improvements or alterations, and anything that may be sold or distributed
shall be considered MERCHANDISE for the purpose of this chapter.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Any organization tax exempt under § 501 (c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code;
      (2)   Any organization created under or otherwise subject to the
provisions of N.J.S.A. Title 15A;
      (3)   Any organization, whether or not qualified under § 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code or subject to the provisions of N.J.S.A. Title 15A, whose
primary purpose is to benefit the school age children of the Township,
including but not limited to schools, school clubs and organizations, Cub
Scouts, Boy Scouts, Brownies, Girl Scouts and similar youth groups;
      (4)   Any organization whose primary purpose is to advocate for religious
or political causes, whether or not qualified under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code or subject to N.J.S.A. Title 15A; or
      (5)   Any department within the Township's municipal governmental
structure, including, but not limited to, the Police Department and any
volunteer fire or first aid company that is located in, has a substantial
membership from or serves the Township.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes from house to house or place to place by any
means of conveyance, carrying or transporting merchandise for the purpose of
selling and delivering the merchandise to customers. The term PEDDLER shall
include the words, hawker and huckster, and shall also include a person who
from time to time offers merchandise for sale from one or more fixed locations
out of doors, when the merchandise is displayed or stored in a motor vehicle
located on the property, whether the property is owned by that person or by
others.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, firm, partnership, corporation,
organization, club, or association or any principal, agent, employee or
representative thereof.
   SOLICITOR.  An individual who goes from house to house or from place to
place by any means of conveyance, soliciting or attempting to take orders for
the sale of merchandise or services of any kind for future performance or
delivery, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a
sample of the merchandise or services, and whether or not he is collecting
advance payments on such sales or orders, or who engages in any of the
foregoing activities from a stationary location or any street or any public
place. The word SOLICITOR shall also mean any individual who goes from house to
house or from place to place for the purpose of obtaining contributions or
subscriptions, or who does research analyses, makes surveys or opinion polls,
obtains rating data or similar information, distributes advertisements or
handbills of a commercial nature or who engages in any similar work which
involves a door to door or place to place activity. The word SOLICITOR shall
also include the word canvasser.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who merchandises or sells with the intent to
close out or discontinue a business within a period of one year from the date
of commencement and occupies a room, building or other permanently constructed
premises for the purpose of selling merchandise. The words TRANSIENT MERCHANT
shall also include the words ITINERANT VENDOR.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
to sell, offer for sale or distribute merchandise, printed material or services
within the Township without first obtaining a license from the Clerk by filing
an application for license, paying a license fee and obtaining said license.
   (B)   The license requirements of this chapter shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any nonprofit organization as defined in §
114.02, provided that the means of identification assigned by such
organization, if any, is carried by the peddler, solicitor or transient
merchant. If no means of identification is assigned by such organization, the
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall be required to carry a bona fide
means of identification, including but not limited to a valid driver's license
or other government issued identification.
      (2)   Any person intending to distribute noncommercial or not-for-profit
handbills, pamphlets, leaflets, circulars, advertisements or printed material.
      (3)   Any person:
         (a)   Campaigning for any elected public office or public question,
which is to be voted upon in the Township at a general, special, primary or
school board election, or in a national or state election;
         (b)   Distributing handbills, pamphlets, leaflets, circulars,
advertisements or printed material with respect thereto; or
         (c)   Otherwise engaging in political speech.
      (4)   Any person engaging in the advocacy of noncommercial or not-for-
profit causes, whether or not in connection with a larger organization, or
engaging in spontaneous speech, including, but not limited, to speech between
neighbors.
      (5)   Any person honorably discharged from the military of the United
States as defined by N.J.S.A. 45:24-9 and 45:24-10, possessing corresponding
identification in conformity with said statute.
      (6)   Any person who is an exempt fireman as defined by N.J.S.A. 45:24-
9 and 45:24-10, possessing corresponding identification in conformity with said
statute.
      (7)   Any person holding a solicitation license or permit issued under
any legislation of the United States government or by a state agency pursuant
to statute.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as exempting the persons or
organizations listed in division (B) above from compliance with the provisions
of this chapter that do not deal with or relate to licenses, including but not
limited to, the hour restrictions set forth in §
114.10(I).
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.04 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   Upon obtaining a license as hereinafter provided, a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant may conduct licensed activities within the Township only as
long as he adheres to the regulations set forth in this chapter and carries the
license upon his person or displays the license in a conspicuous place at all
times during the conduct of the licensed activities. The license shall be shown
to any individual upon request.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for license shall be made upon forms provided by the
Township, including a New Jersey State Bureau of Identification form
authorizing release of any criminal history record information to the Voorhees
Police Department, shall be sworn to, shall be filed with the municipal clerk
and shall contain or be accompanied by the following information.
   (A)   For solicitors and peddlers:
      (1)   Applicant's name, permanent address, local address (if different
from permanent address) and telephone number;
      (2)   Name and address of the organization or person(s) on whose behalf
soliciting or peddling is being made, together with telephone numbers;
      (3)   A description of the nature of merchandise to be sold;
      (4)   Length of time for which license is desired;
      (5)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, disorderly persons offense or petty disorderly persons offense
involving deceptive business practices or fraud, or a violation of any
ordinance enacted in other municipalities concerning peddling, solicitation or
transient merchandising, when and where the offense(s) occurred and the penalty
imposed, if any;
      (6)   Motor vehicle registration number, make and model of any motor
vehicle used by the applicant in connection with his peddling or soliciting;
      (7)   Applicant's photo identification, which the Municipal Clerk will
photocopy and attach to the application;
      (8)   If the applicant is an agent, employee or representative, he shall
attach to the application a letter from the person or organization for whom the
applicant works or represents, authorizing the applicant to act as its agent,
employee or representative and assuming responsibility for the applicant's
conduct;
      (9)   All applicants selling merchandise subject to sales tax shall
submit a copy of a valid certificate of authority issued by the Director of the
New Jersey Division of Taxation, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:32B-15, empowering the
applicant to collect sales tax. Certificates shall not be required for the sale
of property exempted from sales and use taxation pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:32B-
8.2. All licensees shall attach the original certificate to their cart, stand,
truck or other merchandising device, as required by N.J.S.A. 54:32B-15;
      (10)   All applicants selling food items for immediate consumption shall
submit a copy of the board of health license.
   (B)   For transient merchants:
      (1)   Applicant's name, permanent address, local address (if any) and
telephone number;
      (2)   Description of the nature of the business or activity including the
average quantity, kind and value of the merchandise to be sold;
      (3)   Applicant's photo identification, which the Municipal Clerk will
photocopy and attach to the application;
      (4)   The days during which the business is to be conducted;
      (5)   The name and addresses of the persons from whom the goods making up
the stock were or are to be purchased by the applicant;
      (6)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, disorderly persons offense or petty disorderly persons offense
involving deceptive business practices or fraud, or a violation of any
ordinance enacted in other municipalities concerning peddling, solicitation or
transient merchandising, when and where the offense(s) occurred and the penalty
imposed, if any;
      (7)   A bond in accordance with N.J.S.A. 45:24-5 in an amount equal to
25% of the value of the personal property shown in the disclosures required by
division (B)(2) above but in no event less than $1,000. The bond shall be in
effect for a period of one year from the date of license issuance, shall
indemnify and pay the Township any penalties or costs incurred in the
enforcement of this section and the purchaser of personal property a sum equal
to at least the amount of any payment such purchaser may have been induced to
make through the misrepresentation of the applicant, its agents, servants or
employees. The bond shall be in a form approved by the Municipal Attorney;
      (8)   An instrument in accordance with N.J.S.A. 45:24-6 appointing the
clerk as the applicant's true and lawful agent;
      (9)   If the applicant is an agent, employee or representative, he shall
attach to the application a letter from the person or organization for whom the
applicant works or represents, authorizing the applicant to act as its agent,
employee or representative and assuming responsibility for the applicant's
conduct;
      (10)   All transient merchants are subject to the statutory requirements
set forth in N.J.S.A. 45:24-1 et seq., and shall be subject to the penalties
set forth therein in the event of a failure to comply with any of said
requirements;
      (11)   All applicants shall submit a copy of a valid certificate of
authority issued by the Director of the New Jersey Division of Taxation,
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:32B-15, empowering the applicant to collect sales tax.
Certificates shall not be required for the sale of property exempted from sales
and use taxation pursuant to N.J.S.A. 54:32B-8.2. The licensee shall
prominently display the original certificate at his place of business as may be
authorized by the license, as required by N.J.S.A. 54:32B-15;
      (12)   All applicants selling food items for immediate consumption shall
submit a copy of the Board of Health license.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.06 APPROVAL OR REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Following the filing of a complete application and payment of the
license fee as set forth in §
114.11 to the Municipal Clerk, the Clerk shall forward the application to the
Chief of Police, who shall, as soon as practicable but no later than within 30
days make such investigation, within the limits of the resources available to
the Chief, which may include background checks, of statements made in the
application and the business responsibility and character of the applicant or
any employee or agent who shall engage in the licensed activity, for the
protection of the public good. Where sufficient cause is shown therefor, the
Chief of Police shall have such additional time as may be reasonably necessary
to make the investigation.
   (B)   If, as a result of such investigation, the character or business
responsibility of the applicant or any employee or agent who shall engage in
the licensed activity is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police shall
endorse on such application his disapproval and the reasons therefor and return
the application to the Clerk. The Chief may disapprove an application if such a
disapproval is based on one or more of the following findings with respect to
the applicant:
      (1)   Conviction of any crime, disorderly persons offense or petty
disorderly persons offense involving deceptive business practices or fraud, or
a violation of any ordinance enacted in any municipality concerning peddling,
solicitation or transient merchandising;
      (2)   Record of breaches of peddling, solicitation or transient merchant
contracts;
      (3)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for license.
   (C)   In the absence of such findings, the Chief of Police shall find the
applicant satisfactory and shall endorse his approval on the application and
return the application to the Clerk.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.07 DENIAL OR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   If the applicant or any employee or agent who shall engage in the
licensed activity is found unsatisfactory by the Chief of Police, and he
endorses his disapproval upon the application, the Clerk shall notify the
applicant by mail that the application is disapproved and shall deny issuance
of the license. Such notice shall be mailed within five working days following
the endorsement of disapproval by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   If the application is found to be satisfactory by the Chief of Police,
the Clerk shall issue a license addressed to the applicant to conduct the
business applied for. The license shall be on a form issued by the Clerk's
office.
   (C)   All peddling and soliciting licenses shall expire December 31 of the
calendar year in which they are issued unless, by their terms, they expire
prior to that time, and shall be limited to the express purpose set forth
therein. With respect to transient merchants, the license shall expire no later
than 180 days after its issuance.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses may be revoked by the Chief of Police, or his designee, for
any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying out activities pursuant to the license;
      (3)   Violation of any provision of this chapter or another Township
ordinance;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime, disorderly persons offense or petty
disorderly persons offense involving deceptive business practices or fraud;
      (5)   Violation of ordinances enacted in other municipalities concerning
peddling, solicitation or transient merchandising.
   (B)   Notice of revocation shall be personally communicated to the licensee,
and thereafter it shall be unlawful for the licensee or any of the licensee's
employees or agents to sell, offer for sale or distribute merchandise or
services in the Township. If a hearing is requested by a licensee, the licensee
shall be provided with a notice of the hearing before the Chief of Police or
his designee. The notice shall be in writing, setting forth the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be served
personally upon the licensee or mailed postage prepaid to the licensee's
address as given by the licensee in making the application, at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing, and no more than five days after receipt
by the Chief of Police or his designee of the written request for a hearing.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.09 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or Municipal Clerk
in the denial of an application for a license, or in the decision with
reference to revocation of a license, shall have the right to appeal to
Township Committee. Township Committee shall not hear any appeal unless the
applicant has first made appeal to the Chief of Police. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Clerk, within 14 days after notice of the action
complained of has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth fully the grounds for a hearing on such appeal.
Township Committee shall set a time and place for hearing the appeal and a
notice of the hearing shall be given to the applicant. The decision of Township
Committee on the appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.10 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to:
   (A)   Attempt to peddle or distribute merchandise or printed material, or
solicit funds or canvass for information, without first having identified
himself as a peddler, solicitor, transient merchant or canvasser registered
with the municipality and displaying the license issued therefor;
   (B)   Have exclusive right to any location on public property;
   (C)   Enter or attempt to enter the land of any resident where such resident
has posted or placed a clearly visible sign indicating that such resident does
not wish to be disturbed by peddlers or solicitors as set forth in §
114.13;
   (D)   Refuse to leave a private dwelling or property after having been once
requested to do so by the owner or occupant thereof;
   (E)   Shout, cry out, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound making or
amplifying device on any streets, parks or public places of the municipality,
or upon private property, that would create or become a nuisance or noise
disturbance as prohibited elsewhere this Code;
   (F)   Distribute obscene merchandise or printed material, or printed
material that advocates unlawful conduct;
   (G)   Litter the streets, public places or other property within the
municipality by any merchandise or printed material;
   (H)   Station, place, set up or maintain a cart, wagon, motor vehicle or
other vehicle, or allow it to remain on any sidewalk in a way that would:
      (1)   Restrict, obstruct, interfere with or impede any pedestrian's
right-of-way;
      (2)   Restrict, obstruct, interfere with or impede the ingress or egress
from the abutting property;
      (3)   Create or become a nuisance;
      (4)   Increase traffic congestion, cause or increase traffic delay or
hazard;
      (5)   Cause or create or constitute a danger to life, health or property;
   (I)   Peddle, solicit, offer to sell or solicit, engage in the business of
selling or other communications except between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and
dusk;
   (J)   Peddle using a cart of the dimensions of which exceeds two feet in
width, four feet in length and four feet in height including wheel height,
while conducting business on any sidewalk;
   (K)   Use any cart which, when fully loaded with merchandise, cannot be
easily moved and maintained under control by the licensee only;
   (L)   Use, set up, attach, place or permit the use of any table, crate,
carton, rack, device or structure of any kind to increase the selling or
display capacity of the peddler's cart;
   (M)   Station, place, set up or maintain a peddler's cart or allow it to
remain on any sidewalk if to do so would reduce the unobstructed pedestrian
right-of-way;
   (N)   Engage in the business of peddling within ten feet of any location
where the curb has been depressed to facilitate pedestrian or vehicle movement;
   (O)   Engage in the business of peddling on any sidewalk or along any street
within 15 feet of any fire hydrant, crosswalk or driveway;
   (P)   Station, place, set up or maintain a peddler's cart or goods against
display windows of fixed location businesses, nor shall they be within 20 feet
from an entranceway to any building, store, theater, library, school, museum,
movie house, sports arena or other place of public assembly, without the
permission of the property owner and in such a manner as to restrict, obstruct,
interfere with or impede pedestrian or vehicular right-of-way;
   (Q)   Engage in the business of peddling on any sidewalk or along any street
within ten feet from intersecting streets or sidewalks;
   (R)   Engage in the business of peddling within 30 feet of any location
where another peddler is engaged in the business of peddling;
   (S)   Engage in the business of selling at any location without giving a
written receipt to each customer for any sale in excess of $20. The receipt
shall show clearly the seller's name, business address, license number, a
description of the merchandise sold, and the purchase price, and shall be
sequentially numbered;
   (T)   Engage in the business of peddling on any sidewalk or along any street
within ten feet of a bus stop. For purpose of this section, the words BUS STOP
shall include the sidewalk and the adjoining street where there is a designated
bus stop;
   (U)   Sell food, drinks, ice cream, confections or other items for immediate
consumption unless the peddler has available for public use a litter receptacle
which shall be clearly marked and maintained for patronage use, nor shall any
peddler leave any location without first picking up, removing and disposing of
any trash or refuse remaining from the sales made by him; nor shall any person
sell food, drinks, ice cream, confections or other food items for consumption
without having first received any permit or license required by the
municipality or the Board of Health for food handling;
   (V)   Leave any cart unattended at any time or place or leave the same
overnight on any sidewalk;
   (W)   Stop, stand or park any vending cart or motorized vehicle used for
vending purposes for more than five minutes for the purpose of selling food and
merchandise;
   (X)   Station, place, set up or maintain a cart, wagon, table, stand,
display or vehicle on private property unless the owner has previously secured
approval for such use of the property pursuant to the provisions of Code
governing land use;
   (Y)   Use of any motorized vending carts and/or motorized vehicles for
vending purposes in any location except on the street.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.11 APPLICATION FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $100
for each individual solicitor or peddler, or transient merchant license, to
compensate the municipality for the cost of administering this chapter,
including the investigation and regulation of the conduct of licenses. Such
fees will not be refunded if a license is denied or revoked.
   (B)   No license issued under this chapter shall be used at any time by any
person other than the person to whom it was issued.
   (C)   Where an organization has several agents peddling, soliciting,
distributing merchandise or printed material or services, or canvassing, each
agent shall pay the applicable application fee and shall be issued a separate
license.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not affect any of the following persons or activities:
   (A)   Any person engaged in the delivery, in the regular course of business,
of goods, wares, merchandise, or other articles of personal property to the
premises of persons who had previously ordered same or were entitled to receive
same by reason of prior agreement;
   (B)   Any nonprofit organization, as defined in §
114.02, engaged in the solicitation of funds for charitable purposes solely
from its members;
   (C)   Any person engaged in the solicitation of funds for a nonprofit
organization, when solicitation occurs on premises owned or controlled by the
person soliciting funds or with the permission of the person who owns or
controls the premises;
   (D)   Federal census-taking and surveys taken pursuant to federal, state or
local laws;
   (E)   Any public utility, or its employees, which is subject to the
regulation of the State Board of Public Utility Commissioners; provided,
however, that such employees shall display the identification badge or card
issued by the employer;
   (F)   Children enrolled in public and private elementary and secondary
schools in the Township, including children peddling or soliciting for schools,
school clubs and organizations, Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, Brownies, Girl Scouts,
and similar youth groups;
   (G)   Any person engaged in the delivery or solicitation of subscriptions
for a print media organization provided, however, that said person shall adhere
to the general regulations set forth in §
114.10 and in addition such persons shall display an identification badge
(subject to the approval by the Police Department) provided by the print media
and an information sheet shall be filed with the Police Department and clerk
containing:
      (1)   The proposed location of solicitation;
      (2)   The make, model and license plate number of any vehicle being used
during such solicitation;
      (3)   The name of the supervisor of the persons soliciting; and
      (4)   The names of all those soliciting within the Township on behalf of
said print media.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.13 NONSOLICITATION STICKER.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other part of this chapter, each resident of the
Township may make an independent choice as to whether that resident chooses to
be canvassed or solicited.
   (B)   The Township Clerk will make available to all residents a sticker
which will make reference to this section of the chapter that will declare that
this resident has chosen not to be canvassed or solicited.
   (C)   The sticker shall be placed on the premises of the resident in a place
that is visible to the public. Any person, partnership, firm or corporation
that canvasses or solicits a resident that has a sticker on display shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by one or more
of the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $1,250;
      (2)    Confinement in the Municipal Jail or in the County Jail for a
period not exceeding 90 days;
      (3)   A period of community service not exceeding 90 days.
   (B)   The minimum penalty of fine for the violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be $100.
   (C)   Each violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and each day
the same is violated shall be deemed and taken to be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (D)   In addition to the foregoing fines or penalties, any person,
partnership, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter within one year of the date of a previous violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to be sentenced to an additional fine as a
repeat offender. The additional fine shall not be less than the minimum nor
exceed the maximum fine as set forth above and shall be calculated separate
from the fine imposed for a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 273-16, passed 2-22-16)
CHAPTER 115: DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS AND SECONDHAND GOODS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Registration and issuance of license
   
115.04   License fees; non-transferability
   
115.05   Revocation of license
   
115.06   Dealer’s responsibilities, requirements and record keeping
   
115.07   Non-applicability
   
115.08   Purchases from minors
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to assist law enforcement
officials and victims of crime in recovering stolen precious metals, gems,
gemstones and/or other articles by requiring minimum reporting, maintenance and
distribution criteria for secondhand and transient dealers.
   (B)   No person shall use, exercise or carry on the business, trade or
occupation of buying scrap gold, old gold, silver, jewelry, home electronics/
audio and visual equipment, musical instruments, telephones and telephonic
equipment, scales, computers, computer hardware and software, typewriters, word
processors, scanners, sporting goods of all kinds, antiques, platinum, all
other precious metals, tools of all kinds, televisions, DVRs, GPS, camcorders,
car stereos, gift cards, furniture, clothing or other valuable articles,
hereinafter referred to as secondhand goods or articles, or being a secondhand
dealer within the township without having first obtained a license from the
township police as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 238-13, passed 10-14-13)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE IDENTIFICATION. Acceptable forms of identification include: a
current valid New Jersey driver’s license or identification card, a current
valid photo driver’s license issued by another U.S. state, a valid U.S.
passport, or other verifiable U.S. government issued identification.
   ARTICLE. Any article of merchandise, including any portion of such article,
whether a distinct part thereof or not, including every part thereof whether
separable or not, and also including material for manufacture; and as so
defined in N.J.S.A. 51:6-1.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Township of Voorhees or his or
her designee/representative.
   DATABASE. A computerized internet capable with hardware and software
compliant to that set by the Chief of Police.
   DEALER.  Any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity, whether
permanent or itinerant, who on one or more occasions (through any means) buys
or sells or otherwise exchanges or trades secondhand gold, silver, precious
metals, gems, or jewelry, and includes anyone advertising the purchase or sale
of any of the aforementioned items.
   DESIGNATED VENDOR. A person or entity who is appointed or designated by the
Chief of Police who is authorized to collect and maintain precious metal
transaction information, or other purchase information as defined herein, for
the Township of Voorhees.
   GIFT CARD. A restricted monetary equivalent or scrip that is issued by
retailers or banks to be used as an alternative to a non-monetary gift.
   ITINERANT BUSINESS. Any business conducted intermittently within the
township or at varying locations.
   PERSON. Any individual natural person, partnership, joint venture, business,
society, associate, club, trustee, trust, corporation, or unincorporated group,
or an officer, agent, employee, servant, factor or any form of personal
representative of any thereof, in any capacity, acting for self or on behalf of
another.
   PRECIOUS METALS. Comprised of gold, silver, sterling, platinum and/or their
alloys as defined in N.J.S.A. 51:5-1 et seq., N.J.S.A. 51:6-1 et seq. and/or
N.J.S.A. 51:6A-1 et seq.; gems, gemstones, coins and all forms of jewelry
herein contained.
   PUBLIC. Individuals and retail sellers, not to include wholesale
transactions or transactions between other merchants.
   PURCHASE.  The exchange of money and the exchange, deposit, pledge, sale,
conveyance or trade of any tangible or intangible article.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a dealer in which
precious metals, or other tangible property, are purchased or exchanged from or
with the public.
   SECONDHAND GOODS. Any article previously sold, acquired, exchanged,
conveyed, traded or otherwise formerly owned, including but not limited to
scrap gold, old gold, silver, jewelry, home electronics/audio and visual
equipment, musical instruments, telephones and telephonic equipment, scales,
computers, computer hardware and software, typewriters, word processors,
scanner, sporting goods of all kinds, antiques, platinum, all other precious
metals, tools of all kinds, telephone, DVRs, GPS, camcorders, car stereos, gift
cards, furniture, clothing or other valuable articles.
   TRANSIENT BUYER. A dealer who has not been in any retail business
continuously for at least six months at that address in the municipality where
the dealer is required to register or who intends to close out or discontinue
all retail business in the township within six months. Or as so defined in
N.J.S.A. 51:6A-5 and N.J.A.C. 13:47C-1.1.
('74 Code, § 96-2) (Ord. 165-1981, passed 11-9-81; Am. Ord. 238-13, passed 10-
14-13)
§ 115.03 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each dealer conducting business within the jurisdiction of the
township shall first register with the Chief of Police, who shall fingerprint
the applicant and institute an investigation of the applicant’s moral character
and business responsibility as he or she deems necessary for the protection of
the public welfare. In the event that the dealer is a business entity other
than a sole proprietorship, the officers in a corporation or the partners in a
partnership (or limited partnership) shall be deemed to be the applicant(s) who
shall be fingerprinted and investigated in accordance with this section. Upon
completion of the investigation, the Chief of Police shall either issue or deny
the license based upon the results of his or her investigation. Upon issuance
of the license, the applicant shall be given a copy of this chapter.
   (B)   A dealer of precious metals, gems or gemstones or second hand goods
shall, prior to buying, attempting to buy or offering to buy, register with the
Chief of Police, providing the following information on an application
prescribed by the Police Department:
      (1)   Name and address of dealer;
      (2)   Address from which dealer shall conduct business; and
      (3)   Copy of valid permit from the township.
(Ord. 238-13, passed 10-14-13)
§ 115.04 LICENSE FEES; NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   Upon issuance of a license, the fee shall be based as provided in this
chapter. A license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
transferable and shall terminate on December 31 of the year in which the
license is issued.
(Ord. 238-13, passed 10-14-13)
§ 115.05 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Chief of Police after a hearing upon notice to the applicant for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of purchasing secondhand precious metals, gems, and
jewelry;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or disorderly persons offense involving
moral turpitude; and
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
and his or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for
the hearing.
(Ord. 238-13, passed 10-14-13)
§ 115.06 DEALER’S RESPONSIBILITIES, REQUIREMENTS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   Every dealer within the township shall, upon the purchase of any precious
metals, or second hand goods from the public, be required to do as follows:
   (A)   Record on a numbered receipt the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser; the name; address and telephone number of the seller or sellers;
the time and date of the transaction; the net weight in terms of pounds Troy,
pennyweight (Troy) or kilograms/grams of the precious metals; fineness in terms
of karats for gold, and sterling or coin for silver, in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 51:5-1 et seq. and N.J.S.A. 51:6-1 et seq. This information is to be
documented through use of an electronic database software system as designated
by the Chief of Police. All costs associated with the designated electronic
database software system will be incurred by the dealer. Documentation showing
all fees associated with the designated electronic database software must be
produced prior to the approval of the mercantile license. These records shall
be subject to the inspection of any authorized police officer of the township.
   (B)   Through the use of applicability required computer equipment, and
using the electronic format approved by the Chief of Police, enter all
transactions into the electronic database within 48 hours from the date of
purchase. The information entered will contain the information in division (A)
above, plus the following:
      (1)   A physical description of the seller;
      (2)   The receipt number;
      (3)   A full description of the item or items purchased, including but
not limited to, marks, numbers, dates, sizes, shapes, initials, monograms and
serial numbers;
      (4)   The price paid for the item;
      (5)   The form must be signed by the seller;
      (6)   The form must be legibly initialed by the clerk or the dealer who
made the transaction so as to readily identify that individual;
      (7)   A color photograph or color image of the seller’s presented
identification; and
      (8)   A color photograph or color image of all items sold. When
photographing or imaging all items must be positioned in a manner that makes
them readily and easily identifiable.
   (C)   The precious metals are to be made available for inspection by the
Chief of Police of the township for a period of three days from the date the
information required above is received by the Chief of Police on the approved
form. The precious metals shall remain in the same condition as when purchased
and shall not be changed, modified, melted or disposed of by the purchaser
until the five-day period has expired. During this three-day period, the
precious metals shall be placed in public view at the purchaser’s place of
business. If the property is such that it would create a hardship on the dealer
by holding the precious metals for this period, the dealer may present the
property to the Chief of Police in order that it may be photographed and, if
deemed necessary by the Chief of Police, an investigation be implemented. The
Chief of Police has the authority to grant the dealer a waiver of the
requirement under this section.
   (D)   In the event of a database failure, or dealer’s computer equipment
malfunction, all transaction information is required to be submitted on paper
forms approved by the Chief of Police. In the event that paper forms are used,
the dealer is responsible to enter all transaction information into the
database as soon as possible upon the dealer’s equipment being repaired or
replaced, or the database coming back into service. Failure by the dealer to
properly maintain computer equipment in a reasonable fashion, or failure by the
dealer to replace faulty computer equipment, may result in the dealer being
cited for a violation of this chapter and subsequently being subject to the
penalties for doing so.
   (E)   Dealer payment to sellers in cash shall be limited to two transactions
during a seven day period for the same seller. The seven day period will
commence on the day of the first transaction and end seven days after the
transaction, i.e. if transaction number one occurs on Monday the seven day
period ends on Sunday. Furthermore, no cash payments shall be made to the same
sellers who make more than five transactions in any given 30 day period.
Sellers making transactions over the number of proscribed weekly and monthly
periods will be paid by the dealer by means of a bank check drawn from the
dealer’s business account.
   (F)   It shall be the requisite duty of every dealer, and of every person in
the dealer’s employ, to admit to the premises during business hours any member
of the Voorhees Township Police Department to examine any database, book,
ledger, or any other record on the premises relating to the purchase of
precious metals from the public, as well as the articles purchased or received,
and to take possession of any article known by the police officer or official
to be missing or to have been stolen, or where the officer or official has
probable cause to believe the article is missing or stolen.
('74 Code, § 96-11) (Ord. 165-1981, passed 11-9-81; Am. Ord. 238-13, passed 10-
14-13)
§ 115.07 NON-APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply to purchases made by jewelers or other dealers
from wholesalers or other suppliers, but shall only apply to those purchases
made from the public or other retail purchases. The dealer shall keep records
of all wholesale purchases for a period of six months from the date of the
purchase, which records shall be opened to investigation by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 238-13, passed 10-14-13)
§ 115.08 PURCHASES FROM MINORS.
   No dealer within the township shall purchase any precious metals from any
person under the age of 18 years.
('74 Code, § 96-12) (Ord. 165-1981, passed 11-9-81; Am. Ord. 238-13, passed 10-
14-13)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a minimum fine of $100 or a maximum of $2,000 or by imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days or by a period of community service not
exceeding 90 days. Each and every violation shall be considered a separate
violation. Every day that a violation continues shall be a separate violation.
Each violation shall result in an additional ten day suspension. Any person who
is convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter within one year of the
date of a previous violation and who was fined for the previous violation may
be sentenced by the court to an additional fine as a repeat offender. The
additional fine imposed as a repeat offender shall not be less than the minimum
or exceed the maximum fine provided herein, and same shall be calculated
separately from the fine imposed for the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 238-13, passed 10-14-13)
CHAPTER 116: TOBACCO SALES
Section
Sale to and Use by Minors
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Sale to minors; purchase for minors prohibited
   
116.03   Sign requirement
   
116.04   Identification required
   
116.05   Tobacco vending machines prohibited; removal
   
116.06   Sale of tobacco products from freestanding or attached display
prohibited
   
116.07   Enforcement by Code Enforcement Official or police officers
   
116.08   Suspension of license; fine for violation
   
116.99   Penalty
SALE TO AND USE BY MINORS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person designated as the Code Enforcement
Official of the township and/or his or her authorized representative.
   FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED TOBACCO DISPLAY. Any display promotion of tobacco
products in any area of a retail establishment not specifically behind a sales
counter and within the grasp of the public so as to be self-service.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or business that sells to the public at
retail.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product made from the tobacco plant or containing
tobacco leaf for the purpose of smoking, chewing, inhaling or other personal
use, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, chewing
tobacco, snuff and dipping tobacco.
   TOBACCO VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electrical or electronic self-
service device which, upon insertion of moneys, tokens or any other form of
payment, dispenses tobacco or tobacco products, either exclusively or as one
kind of an available item.
('74 Code, § 50-7) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
§ 116.02 SALE TO MINORS; PURCHASE FOR MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell a tobacco product to a person under 18
years of age (a “minor”).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase a tobacco product with
funds furnished by a minor or with the intent to sell or distribute such a
product to a minor.
('74 Code, § 50-1) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.03 SIGN REQUIREMENT.
   The following six-inch-by-eight-inch sign shall be posted in a conspicuous
place near each cash register in all retail establishments which sell tobacco
products:
SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS
TO MINORS UNDER THE AGE OF 18 OR
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES BY MINORS
IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
Legal proof of age must be shown.
   A person who sells or offers to sell a tobacco product to a person under 18
years of age may be prosecuted in accordance with state statutes and township
ordinances.
('74 Code, § 50-2) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.04 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a tobacco retailer to sell or permit to be sold any
tobacco product to any individual without first requesting and examining
identification from the purchaser positively establishing the purchaser's age
as 18 years or greater, unless the seller has some other conclusive basis for
determining the buyer is over the age of 18 years.
('74 Code, § 50-3) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.05 TOBACCO VENDING MACHINES PROHIBITED; REMOVAL.
   (A)   In view of the indiscriminate sales of tobacco products to minors
through tobacco vending machines, all tobacco vending machines are hereby
prohibited in the township. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation or association to possess, own, operate, rent or permit the use of,
or operation of, a tobacco vending machine in, on, or about the premises under
his or her ownership, control or management or to sell, or offer to sell, any
tobacco product through a tobacco vending machine in the township.
('74 Code, § 50-4)
   (B)   All tobacco vending machines made unlawful by the terms of this
section shall be removed within 30 days after the effective date of this
chapter.
('74 Code, § 50-5)
(Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.06 SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS FROM FREESTANDING OR ATTACHED DISPLAY
PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to offer for sale or to sell tobacco products from a
freestanding or attached tobacco display.
('74 Code, § 50-6) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.07 ENFORCEMENT BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL OR POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Code Enforcement Official, or his or her designee, or a
police officer of the township reasonably believes there exists a violation of
this chapter, such officer may issue a summons and complaint not later than 90
days after discovery of the alleged violation. The complaint shall be written
and shall state with reasonable particularity the nature of the violation,
including reference to the chapter and section of this chapter alleged to have
been violated. The complaint shall be delivered personally or sent via
certified mail to the alleged violator.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Official, his or her designee or a police officer
of the township after giving proper identification, and if no search or other
warrant is required by law, may summarily inspect any matter, thing, premise,
place, person, record, incident or event as necessary to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, willfully oppose,
verbally abuse or otherwise act to interfere with or obstruct the Code
Enforcement Official or his/her designee or any police officer in the
performance of such person's duties under this chapter. The Code Enforcement
Official or his or her designee may request the assistance of the Voorhees
Township Police Department when necessary to execute his or her official duty
in the manner prescribed by law.
   (D)   Citizens may bring complaints for violation of this chapter through
the Code Enforcement Official or the Township Police Department.
('74 Code, § 50-8) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
§ 116.08 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; FINE FOR VIOLATION.
   The Code Enforcement Official may suspend the retail food establishment
license of any person convicted of a violation of this chapter, for a period of
not more than three days, in addition to a fine, pursuant to the authority of
the Health Commission to license and regulate establishments as provided by
N.J.S.A. 26:3-31(c).
('74 Code, § 50-9) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, statute or ordinance, any person
violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall pay a
fine of not less than $100 nor more that $500 for each offense. The complaint
shall be made in the Municipal Court of the township or before such other
judicial officer having authority under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day of possession or use of a tobacco vending machine shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Each sale of a tobacco product to a minor shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
('74 Code, § 50-9) (Ord. 793-97, passed 4-28-97)
CHAPTER 117: PAWNBROKERS AND DEALERS IN SECOND-HAND GOODS
Section
General Provisions
   
117.001   Purpose
   
117.002   Definitions
Licenses
   
117.015   License required
   
117.016   Exemptions
   
117.017   Application
   
117.018   Fees
   
117.019   Investigation
   
117.020   Issuance
   
117.021   Posting
   
117.022   Revocation
   
117.023   False or misleading application
   
117.024   Transfer
Location
   
117.035   Change of location
   
117.036   Hours of operation
   
117.037   Inspection of premises; seizures
Purchases
   
117.050   Prohibited purchases
   
117.051   Purchasing, selling and the like; weapons prohibited
   
117.052   State and federal laws complied with
   
117.053   Record of purchases
   
117.054   Waiting period
Pawnbrokers
   
117.065   License issuance
   
117.066   Pawnbroker must be insured
   
117.067   Pawnbroker’s bond
   
117.068   Revocation of pawnbroker license
   
117.069   Investigation by Commissioner
   
117.070   Commissioner has general supervision
   
117.071   Pawnbroker’s annual report
   
117.072   Pawnbroker’s records
   
117.073   ID cards maintained by pawnbroker
   
117.074   Pledgor’s ticket
   
117.075   Period of redemption
   
117.076   Mechanic’s tools
Second-Hand Watches
   
117.085   Daily reports of pawnbrokers and dealers in second-hand goods
   
117.086   Definition of second-hand watches
   
117.087   Markings
   
117.088   Special invoice for second-hand watches
   
117.089   Advertising
 
   
117.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to license, regulate and establish a standard
body of uniformly produced records and policies that will be adhered to by each
business covered under this chapter. Thus, allowing local, regional and state
law enforcement authorities to track, monitor and share information regarding
merchandise bought, sold and exchanged, including monies lent through second-
hand dealers or pawnbrokers doing business in the Township, thereby,
facilitating the prevention of fraud, impositions and other abuses upon
citizens and ensuring the difficulty of disposing of stolen property and aid in
its recovery thereof.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person, partnership, association or corporation lending
money on deposit or pledge of personal property, other than chooses in action,
securities or printed evidences of indebtedness; or purchasing personal
property on condition of selling it back at a stipulated price; or doing
business as furniture storage warehouseman and lending money on goods, wares or
merchandise pledged or deposited as collateral security.
   PLEDGE. An article or articles deposited with a pawnbroker in the course of
business.
   PLEDGOR. A person who delivers the pledge into the possession of a
pawnbroker, unless such person discloses that he or she is or was acting for
another, and in such an event PLEDGOR means the disclosed principal.
   PRECIOUS METAL or GEMS. Items comprised of gold, silver, platinum, palladium
and alloys thereof, gems, coins, containing precious metals and all forms of
previously owned jewelry, which contain precious metals.
   SECOND-HAND DEALER. Any person, partnership, corporation, association, joint
venture, trustee, court-appointed representative or agent thereof which
operates a business for profit which buys, sells, possesses on consignment for
sale or trades jewelry, stamps, coins or any precious metals which may have
been previously owned by a consumer; or which derives more than 35% of its
gross receipts from the sale, consignment for sale, pledge or trade of any
goods, wares or merchandise which have previously been owned by a consumer,
including, but not limited to, furniture, appliances, consumer electronic
goods, clothing, automobile accessories, books, magazines, athletic cards and
memorabilia or precious metals, whether in bulk or manufactured state. The term
SECOND-HAND DEALER shall include businesses commonly known  as pawnbrokers,
trading posts, swap shop operators, stamp dealers, coin dealers, jewelers and
auction houses that purchase and re-sell items from persons other than dealers
and suppliers. The fact that any business does any of the following acts shall
be prima facie proof that the business is a second-hand dealership:
      (1)   Advertises in any fashion that it buys or sells second-hand or used
items. Such advertisements shall include, but are not limited to, media
advertisements, telephone listings and signs whether on the exterior or
interior of the business; and
      (2)   Devotes a significant segment or section of the business premises
to the purchase or sale of second-hand or used items.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
LICENSES
§ 117.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, manager, lessee, officer or agent, or in
any other business, within the Township, shall operate or permit to be operated
a second-hand dealership without first having obtained a license from the
township to do so.
   (B)   If an individual is deemed a pawnbroker or business deemed a pawnshop,
then a license from the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance is required.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-2]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.016 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   As used in this section, a GARAGE SALE is defined as the sale of used
personal property by the lawful residents of residentially zoned property that
is not conducted on a periodic or ongoing basis. A  garage sale shall be deemed
to be periodic or ongoing if a garage sale is held by the lawful resident of
residentially zoned property more than three days in any consecutive 90 day
period;
   (B)   Sales conducted by governmental, civic, patriotic, fraternal,
educational, religious or benevolent organizations which have been in active
and continuous existence for at least one year prior to the holding of the
sale, or which are incorporated as a not for profit corporation by the state;
   (C)   Sales or purchases which are regulated by the licensing laws of the
state, including automobile dealers, used parts dealers and automotive parts
recyclers; and
   (D)   As used in this section, an ANTIQUE DEALER is defined as one who
derives 75% of his or her gross sales each year from the sale of antiques and/
or primitives. As used in this section, an ANTIQUE or PRIMITIVE is defined as
an old and valuable art object or article no longer in production that is at
least 50 years old. As used in this section, the term “sale” does not include
an exchange, trade or swap of items.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.017 APPLICATION.
   An application for a license required by this section shall be made in
writing to the Voorhees Township Clerk, which shall minimally set forth the
following:
   (A)   The name of the individual, partnership, corporation or association
applying for a license;
   (B)   The residence, phone number, date of birth, driver’s license number
and social security number or Federal Tax Identification Number of the
applicant or partners, or, if a corporation or association, the residence,
phone number and driver’s license number of the officers and all shareholders
owning more than 5% of the outstanding shares of stock;
   (C)   The location for which the license is requested;
   (D)   Whether the applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders
have been convicted of any criminal offense or ordinance violation (other than
traffic or parking offenses) in any jurisdiction and, if so, a list of such
convictions with date and prosecuting jurisdiction;
   (E)   Whether the applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders
have held a license or had an interest in a license issued by this or any other
jurisdiction regulating the purchase or sale of second-hand property revoked
for cause, and, if so, list the date of revocation and jurisdiction; and
   (F)   In the case of a pawnbroker, the applicant’s name, address,
fingerprints and written consent for a criminal history record must be
forwarded to the Commissioner.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.018 FEES.
   The applicant shall pay the Township Clerk prior to filing an application a
license fee of $60 per Township fiscal year or part thereof. The license shall
be renewed each year; the annual renewal fee shall be $60. A $30 late fee will
be imposed if the business does not renew by January 31 of each year. Should
the license be denied, the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.019 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the Township Clerk shall cause
a copy thereof to be sent to the Police Department, which shall report back to
the Township Clerk in 21 days whether the applicant(s) is/are in accordance
with applicable Township codes.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.020 ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the report from the Police Department referred to in §
117.019, the Township Clerk shall issue the license requested unless the
Township Clerk shall find:
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of 18;
   (B)   The location requested is not in a permanent structure;
   (C)   The applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders have been
convicted of or have pleaded guilty to any offense related to theft, burglary
or purchasing or receiving stolen items under the laws of this state, township
or any other jurisdiction within the past ten years, or have forfeited a bond
to appear in court to answer for charges for such offenses during the time;
   (D)   That the location requested and structure to be used would not comply
with all applicable laws including the Zoning Code of the Township;
   (E)   That the applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders have
held a license or had an interest in a license issued by the Township or any
other jurisdiction regulating the purchase or sale of second-hand property
which was revoked for cause; or
   (F)   That the applicant, its partners, officers or listed shareholders has
knowingly furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant
information on any application for a license required by §
117.015 or any investigation into any application.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.021 POSTING.
   Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall, at all
times during the period for which it is effective, be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the principal entrance to the premises for which the license
is issued.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.022 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued for a second-hand dealer may be revoked or suspended for
a period not to exceed 30 days by the Mayor and Township Committee if they
shall find after hearing:
   (A)   That the licensee, its officers, agents or employees have violated any
of the provisions of this chapter, the laws of the state or ordinances of the
Township in the operation of the business;
   (B)   That the licensee, its partners, officers or shareholders have been
convicted of any offense set forth in §
117.019; or
   (C)   That the licensee, partners, officers or shareholders have knowingly
furnished false or misleading information or withheld relevant information on
any application for a license required by §
117.017, or any investigation into any application. The licensee shall be
responsible for the acts of its agents, servants and employees in the operation
of the business. Prior to holding a hearing concerning the question of whether
a license shall be revoked or suspended, the Mayor shall give at least ten
days’ written notice to the licensee setting forth the alleged violation. The
licensee may present evidence and cross-examine witnesses at such hearing.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.023 FALSE OR MISLEADING APPLICATION.
   In addition to being subject to penalty as hereinafter set forth, any person
who obtains a license as herein provided by furnishing the Township with a
false or misleading application shall, upon the discovery thereof, suffer an
immediate revocation of such license and forfeiture of all fees paid.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.024 TRANSFER.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred to any other person,
partnership, corporation or association.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
LOCATION
§ 117.035 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   No licensee shall carry on any business required to be licensed under this
chapter except at the location designated on the license. Should the licensee
wish to change the location, application shall be made to the Township Clerk
for such change in writing.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.036 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No licensee shall purchase any goods, wares, articles or things, whatsoever,
or lend any money to any person between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
the next day.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.037 INSPECTION OF PREMISES; SEIZURES.
   Every licensee and every person employed by the licensee in the conduct of
business, shall admit to any and every part of the premises designated in the
license, during normal business hours, any law enforcement officer of the
Township to examine any goods, articles, things, pledges, pawns or books or
other records on the premises dealing with purchase or sale of used property
and to search for and to take into possession without compensation to the
licensee, any article known or for which such officer has reasonable grounds to
believe to have been stolen. Such law enforcement officer may make any such
search or seizure as is provided for in this section, and property so seized
shall be receipted for by such officer, who shall fully describe the seized
property and sign the receipt. Should the officer determine the property not to
be stolen, the officer shall promptly return same to the licensee and obtain a
receipt therefor, as aforesaid. In the case of property obtained in the case of
a domestic theft, the victim shall make restitution for the amount paid to
obtain the property. Other restitution will be made by way of criminal
complaints against the seller of the items.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
PURCHASES
§ 117.050 PROHIBITED PURCHASES.
   No licensee shall purchase or accept any goods, wares, articles or things
under any of the following circumstances:
   (A)   Where the seller is less than the age of 18;
   (B)   A pawnbroker may not accept a pledge from any person who is under the
age of 16;
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-31]
   (C)   Where the seller is intoxicated. INTOXICATED is defined as a seller
whose mental or physical functioning is substantially impaired as a result of
the use of alcohol or drugs;
   (D)   Where the seller fails to present a valid New Jersey driver’s license
or at least two forms of identification of which at least one contains the
seller’s full legal name, date of birth, a photograph or full physical
description and an identification number; and
   (E)   Where the article to be purchased had an original manufacturer’s
serial number at the time it was new, but no longer legibly exhibits the
number.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.051 PURCHASING, SELLING AND THE LIKE; WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall deal in, buy, sell or display in his or her shop, any
pistol, revolver, Derringer, Bowie knife, dirk or other deadly weapon of like
character, capable of being secreted upon the person unless such licensee shall
also possess valid and current licenses or permits as required by applicable
federal, state or local laws, ordinances, rules or regulations.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.052 STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS COMPLIED WITH.
   Any licensee operating as a pawn shop or pawnbroker shall comply with all
applicable state and federal laws and regulations that govern the same.
Specifically businesses dealing in the purchasing of precious metals will
comply with the laws outlined in N.J.S.A. 51:6A-1.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.053 RECORD OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   Under this chapter, every licensee shall keep at the licensed location
a sequential numbered, multi-copy receipt book or forms, approved by the Chief
of Police, which contain the following information and entered in a permanent
manner for every item purchased or received during the course of business.
   (B)   Entries made in the register shall be printed or typed and shall be
legible.
   (C)   All entries shall be made immediately upon receipt or purchase of any
property.
   (D)   This register shall be open to inspection by any police officer during
normal hours of operation.
      (1)   A concise and accurate description of all property taken, purchased
or received including any number or inscription that may be in or on the
property.
      (2)   The full legal name of the person from whom the property is
received and, including full first name and middle initial, if any; such
person’s current residential address, date of birth and phone number.
      (3)   A valid New Jersey driver’s license or at least two forms of
identification of which at least one contains the seller’s full legal name,
date of birth, a photograph and an identification number.
      (4)   The amount paid for each item or the consideration and terms of the
transaction.
      (5)   The signature of the seller.
      (6)   The signature of the employee who received the property.
      (7)   Every receipt will be accounted for and used in chronological
order. Should a receipt be written in error or damaged causing it to no longer
be usable, the receipt will be kept on file with proper notations.
      (8)   The receipt to the seller shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The price at which the precious metals are being bought,
expressed as a price per ounce;
         (b)   The weight of the precious metal purchased together with a full
and complete description of the items being purchased; and
         (c)   If the item purchased is a gem or piece of jewelry not bought on
the basis of weight, the price being paid for the item together with a
description of the item.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.054 WAITING PERIOD.
   Every licensee, except auction houses, shall keep all property purchased or
received from an individual for inspection for a period of seven calendar days
before it can be sold or traded. The waiting period may be waived in writing by
the Chief of Police or by his or her authorized representative.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
PAWNBROKERS
§ 117.065 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   The Commissioner of Banking and Insurance has the discretion upon the filing
of a bond to issue a license. The license is not assignable.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-4]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.066 PAWNBROKER MUST BE INSURED.
   Each licensed pawnbroker shall be required to furnish proof that he or she
is adequately covered by insurance, bond or cash surplus to cover any pledgor
in the event of loss by fire, theft or burglary. [N.J.S.A. 45:22-5]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.067 PAWNBROKER’S BOND.
   An applicant who is licensed pursuant to N.J.S.A. 45:22-7 shall file a bond
with the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance in the amount of $1,000, with
one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the Commissioner. A separate
bond is required for each place of business.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.068 REVOCATION OF PAWNBROKER LICENSE.
   The Commissioner of Banking and Insurance, may, upon five days notice and
after a hearing, revoke any license issued under the provisions of this
subchapter for any violation of the provisions or regulations. [N.J.S.A. 45:22-
8]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.069 INVESTIGATION BY COMMISSIONER.
   The Commissioner of Banking and Insurance has the authority to investigate a
business at any time that would include all licenses. The Commissioner or a
designated individual shall have free access, during normal business hours to
the licensee’s place of business, books, papers, records, safes and vaults of
the licensee.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-10]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.070 COMMISSIONER HAS GENERAL SUPERVISION.
   The Commissioner of Banking and Insurance may develop the form that such
books and records are to be kept by the licensee, what books and records shall
be maintained for a period of two years after making the final entry on any
pledge recorded and any other rules and regulations deemed appropriate. The
Commissioner shall co-operate with the police and other officials of the
several municipalities for the recovery or restoration of stolen property.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-11]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.071 PAWNBROKER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   Annually, every pawnbroker shall submit to the Commissioner of Banking and
Insurance, on forms and within the time prescribed by him or her, a report
under oath, and providing the following:
   (A)   Number and amount of loans made during the preceding calendar year;
   (B)   Balance of all outstanding loans at the close of the year;
   (C)   The rates of interest charged; and
   (D)   Any additional information that the Commissioner may require.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-12]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.072 PAWNBROKER’S RECORDS.
   Each pawnbroker shall maintain a book in which shall be recorded in ink at
the time of making each loan, the following:
   (A)   Name and address of each pledgor;
   (B)   Where a pledge is made by a person acting as an agent, the name and
address of the agent;
   (C)   Date of the transaction;
   (D)   Amount of the loan;
   (E)   Article or articles pledged; and
   (F)   Serial number of the loan.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-13]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.073 ID CARDS MAINTAINED BY PAWNBROKER.
   The pawnbroker shall require the pledgor or agent to write his or her
signature and address on a card bearing the serial number of the loan that
corresponds with the pawnbroker’s book.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-14]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.074 PLEDGOR’S TICKET.
   (A)   The pawnbroker shall issue a ticket with the following information:
      (1)   Name of pledgor;
      (2)   Name of pawnbroker;
      (3)   Place the pledge was made;
      (4)   Article or articles pledged;
      (5)   Amount of the loan;
      (6)   Date of the transaction;
      (7)   Serial number of the loan;
      (8)   Rate of interest; and
      (9)   Copy of N.J.S.A. 45:22-22 and 45:22-24.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-15]
   (B)   The holder may redeem the pledge by presenting the ticket to the
pawnbroker as long as the principal and interest are paid. The person may also
redeem the pledge by mail pursuant to all appropriate fees being paid.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-16 and N.J.S.A. 45:22-17]
   (C)   If a ticket is lost, stolen or destroyed, the pledgor shall notify the
pawnbroker in writing. The receipt of such notice shall be treated as a stop
against the loan. The pledgor will be required to set forth an affidavit of the
alleged loss, or theft of the ticket. The pledgor shall then have the ability
to redeem the loan or receive a new ticket.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-19]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.075 PERIOD OF REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Unclaimed pledges shall be sold at public auction or private sale, but
not prior to the expiration of 12 months from the date of the loan unless
otherwise agreed or authorized by the Commissioner. [N.J.S.A. 45:22-25]
   (B)   Prior to the public auction or private sale of the pledge, a notice
must be sent to the last known address of the pledgor after the maturity of the
loan, and 20 days must pass before such sale may take place.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-26]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.076 MECHANIC’S TOOLS.
   No pawnbroker may receive mechanic’s tools used in the erection, addition or
alteration of any building or structure, unless the person produces to the
pawnbroker two reputable citizens who reside in the county for which the
pawnbroker maintains a business and would set forth an affidavit containing the
name, residence and occupation of such affidavit, and that he or she believes
that the individual is the true owner of the tools. Such affidavits are subject
to inspection, and any violation of this provision, the pawnbroker will be
guilty of a misdemeanor. [N.J.S.A. 45:22-33]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
SECOND-HAND WATCHES
§ 117.085 DAILY REPORTS OF PAWNBROKERS AND DEALERS IN SECOND-HAND GOODS.
   Pawnbrokers and second-hand dealers of goods shall make available to the
Chief of Police records of deposits or redemption of goods and pledges, showing
the description of each article or thing received by him or her during the
business day immediately preceding the filling of the report, together with the
amount of money loaned thereon, and description of the person making the
pledge. Copies of the records shall be made available to the Chief of Police at
any time.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-34]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.086 DEFINITION OF SECOND-HAND WATCHES.
   A watch shall be second-hand if:
   (A)   As a whole or the case thereof or the movement thereof has been
previously sold to or acquired by any person who bought or acquired the same
for his or her use or the use of another, but not for re-sale; provided,
however, that a watch which has been so sold or acquired and is thereafter
returned either through an exchange or for credit to the original individual
firm, partnership, association or corporation who sold or passed title to such
watch, shall not be deemed to be a second-hand watch for the purposes of this
act, if such vendor shall keep a written or printed record setting forth the
name of the purchaser thereof, the date of the sale or transfer thereof and the
serial number (if any) on the case and the movement, and any other
distinguishing numbers or identification marks, which the record shall be kept
for at least five years from the date of such sale or transfer and shall be
open for inspection during all business hours by the prosecutor of the pleas of
the county in which such vendor is engaged in business or his or her duly
authorized representative;
   (B)   Case serial numbers or movement numbers or other distinguishing
numbers or identification marks shall be erased, defaced, removed, altered or
covered; or
   (C)   If its movement is more than five years old and has been repaired by
any person or persons, including the vendor, notwithstanding that it may have
been returned either through an exchange or for credit to the original vendor.
Cleaning and oiling a watch movement or recasing the moving in a new case shall
not be deemed a watch repair for the purposes of this section.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-38]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.087 MARKINGS.
   A pawnbroker or second-hand dealer in the business of purchasing or selling
second-hand watches shall affix to the display or watch a tag with the words
“second-hand” clearly and legibly written or printed thereon, and the tag shall
be so placed that the words “second-hand” shall be in plain sight at all times.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-35]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.088 SPECIAL INVOICE FOR SECOND-HAND WATCHES.
   (A)   Any person or entity involved in the business of selling watches, who
may sell a second-hand watch or in any other way pass title thereto, shall
deliver to the vendee a written notice bearing the words “second-hand watch” in
bold letters, larger than any of the other written matter upon the invoice.
   (B)   Additionally, the invoice shall have the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the vendor;
      (2)   Name and address of the vendee;
      (3)   Date of the sale;
      (4)   Name of the watch and its maker;
      (5)   Serial numbers;
      (6)   Distinguishing numbers or identification marks and if such marks
have been erased, defaced, removed, altered or covered the invoice shall state;
and
      (7)   The vendor shall maintain a copy of the record for a period of five
years from the date of the sale.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-36]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.089 ADVERTISING.
   Any advertisement for second-hand watches shall state clearly in such
advertisement or display that the watch is a second-hand watch.
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
§ 117.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 or more than
$1,000 for each offense. Each day any violation of any provision of this
chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. The licensee shall
be fully responsible for any violation of this chapter occasioned by or with
the condemnation of the licensee’s partners, officers, shareholders, agents or
employees. Any such violation shall be imputed to the licensee. For a third or
subsequent violation under this chapter, the mercantile license of the business
may be revoked upon notification by Mayor and Township Committee.
   (B)   Any person or entity that violates the provisions governing second-
hand watches shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed the sum of $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 100 days, or
both.
[N.J.S.A. 45:22-39]
(Ord. 150-09, passed 9-8-09)
CHAPTER 118: ANIMAL SHELTER FACILITIES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Facilities and sanitation
   
118.03   Feeding and watering
   
118.04   Compliance and inspection
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ANIMAL SHELTER FACILITY. Includes any kennel, pet shop, pound, or shelter
containing any animal subject to rabies or other diseases of dogs.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A person 18 years of age or older who has been
qualified and certified pursuant to N.J.A.C.8:23A-2.1-2.5.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE. Any structure used to restrict or confine an animal or
animals to a limited amount of space, such as a pen, cage, compartment, or a
room in an ANIMAL SHELTER FACILITY.
(Ord. 896-98, passed 10-26-98)
§ 118.02 FACILITIES AND SANITATION.
   (A)   Each animal in an Animal Shelter Facility shall be housed in an a
primary enclosure that contains a minimum square footage of floor or ground
area per animal in such area equal to the product of the length oft the animal
plus six inches squared. No Animal Shelter Facility shall maintain more animals
at any one time in excess of the number which can be maintained in conformance
with the foregoing area requirements.
   (B)   A suitable method shall be provided in all facilities to drain surface
water rapidly from all primary enclosures and other areas where animals sleep,
exercise or otherwise are maintained.
   (C)   Primary enclosures located outside shall be constructed and maintained
so that they are impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned and
disinfected.
   (D)   Animals that are kept in outdoor primary enclosures shall be provided
with access to shelter to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow, and to
provide shade when sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort.
   (E)   Primary enclosures and all other facilities where animals sleep,
exercise or otherwise are maintained within an animal shelter facilities shall
be physically cleaned as often as necessary to prevent contamination of the
animals contained therein, to control disease hazards and odors, to prevent an
accumulation of debris or excreta and to prevent nuisances. Cages, floors and
pens shall be disinfected at least once per day by washing them with hot water
and soap or detergent.
(Ord. 896-98, passed 10-26-98)
§ 118.03 FEEDING AND WATERING.
   Animals shall be fed at least once each day, except as otherwise might be
required to provide adequate care, and potable water must be accessible to
animals at all times.
(Ord. 896-98, passed 10-26-98)
§ 118.04 COMPLIANCE AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   All animal shelter facilities shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter as well as rules and regulations enacted by the State of New Jersey and
the Camden County Department of Health.
   (B)   To ensure compliance with this chapter, each year the Camden County
Department of Health or another official determined by the Camden County
Department of Health shall conduct an inspection of every' Animal Shelter
Facility, and shall issue a certificate of inspection indicating compliance
with this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to the annual inspection, the Camden County Department of
Health, upon receipt of a complaint that an Animal Shelter Facility is being
operated in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, shall
conduct a compliance inspection of such animal shelter facility.
(Ord. 896-98, passed 10-26-98)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   An animal control facility found to be operating in violation of this
chapter shall be.subject to a fine in the amount of $500, or imprisonment up to
30 days, or both. Each day that such violation exists shall be deemed a
separate offense hereunder
(Ord. 896-98, passed 10-26-98)
CHAPTER 119: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Massage establishments
   
119.03   Operation of massage establishments
   
119.04   Fee schedule for massage establishments, managers and workers
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in the chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and derivations
shall have the following meanings:
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a massage establishment, massage
establishment manager, or massage worker license.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT MANAGER. An individual who acts as the manager of a
massage establishment.
   MASSAGE WORKER. An individual who administers massages and/or otherwise
unregulated acupressure therapy to other individuals.
   RENEWAL APPLICANT. A person applying for the renewal of a massage
establishment, massage establishment manager, or massage worker license.
(Ord. 71-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 202-11, passed 12-28-11)
§ 119.02 MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Licensing and application process for a massage establishment. Under
procedures established by the Police Department, a person may obtain a massage
establishment license by completing the requirements as set forth in this
chapter and submitting the information in writing to the Police Department
that, at a minimum, requires the applicant to provide:
      (1)   The applicant's name, current address, the location and mailing
address of the proposed establishment, and any address where the applicant has
conducted business for the past five years;
      (2)   If the applicant is an association or a partnership, the names and
resident addresses of each of the associates or partners. If the applicant is a
corporation, the names and resident addresses of each of the officers and
directors of the corporation and of each stockholder owning more than 10% of
the stock of the corporation. If one or more of the stockholders owning more
than 10% of the applicant corporation is itself a corporation and owns at least
33% of the stock of the applicant corporation, the names and resident addresses
of each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each
stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation. If the
massage establishment is to be managed by someone other than the applicant, the
name and resident address of each manager. Each person who must be identified
on the application under this division is considered an applicant under these
regulations;
      (3)   A description of the facilities and services to be available on the
premises of the proposed establishment;
      (4)   The applicant's employment history for the three-year period
preceding the date of application;
      (5)   A statement regarding whether the applicant has ever been convicted
of, or received probation before judgment in lieu of a conviction of, a crime
other than a traffic offense for which imprisonment was not a possible
punishment; the nature of the crime; a description of the disposition of the
matter; and the name and address of any parole or probation officer or agency
that may have knowledge of the offense or the proper completion of any
sentence, probation or parole;
      (6)   All necessary signatures and approvals to authorize a complete
criminal background check for all applicants;
      (7)   A copy of the applicant's fingerprints, which must be taken by
company currently contracted to conduct fingerprinting for the Police
Department, upon payment of the fee established by law, and four passport-style
photographs of the applicant, consisting of three front and one side view;
      (8)   The required fee;
      (9)   The history of the applicant in the operation of massage
establishments, including whether or not the person, in previously operating in
this or another county or state under license, registration or permit, has had
a license, registration, or permit revoked or suspended, and the reason for the
revocation or suspension, and the business activity or occupation of the
applicant after the suspension or revocation;
      (10)   The applicant's statement under oath that all of the information
contained in the application is true and correct;
      (11)   Evidence that the applicant has a comprehensive general liability
insurance policy from an insurer licensed in New Jersey in the amount of at
least $1,000,000 that covers all acts of the licensee; a certificate indicating
that a massage establishment manager(s) and all massage workers have
professional liability insurance in the amount of $500,000 each; and evidence
that the applicant has workmen's compensation insurance coverage as may be
required under state law; and
      (12)   Evidence that the applicant has a license and permit bond in the
amount of $10,000 to cover all activities at the massage establishment.
   (B)   Licensing and application process for massage establishment manager
license. Under procedures established by the Police Department, a person may
obtain a massage establishment manager license by completing the requirements
as set forth in this chapter and submitting the information in writing to the
Police Department that, at a minimum, requires the applicant to provide:
      (1)   Nature of applicant. Only individuals may apply for a massage
establishment manager license.
      (2)   Names, addresses and phone numbers. Each application must include:
         (a)   The full name of the applicant, including any maiden name, alias
or name under which the applicant has previously been known;
         (b)   The applicant's date of birth, residence address, Social
Security number, and residence phone number at the time of application, and for
the three-year period preceding the date of application; and
         (c)   The applicant's business address and business phone number at
the time of application.
      (3)   Fingerprints. A complete set of fingerprints of the applicant taken
by the Police Department must accompany each application.
      (4)   Location of worksite; ownership.
         (a)   An application for a manager license must include:
            1.   The location and mailing address of the massage establishment
in the Township where the applicant will be working;
            2.   The phone number of the massage establishment (if the
establishment has phone service at the time of application); and
            3.   The name of the person who holds the Township license to
operate the massage establishment where the applicant will be working.
         (b)   A license under this section is only valid at a single
establishment. If an individual works as a manager at more than one
establishment, the individual must apply separately for a license for each
establishment.
      (5)   History of applicant; training and experience. The application must
include:
         (a)   A description of the applicant's training and experience,
including any licenses to administer massages or to manage or operate a massage
establishment, or diplomas or certificates from professional organizations
recognized by the State of New Jersey; and
         (b)   The names and addresses of each massage establishment where the
applicant has been employed, and the dates of employment. If the applicant has
not been employed by a massage establishment during the past three years, the
names and addresses of the applicant's employers during the three years
preceding the application.
      (6)   History of applicant; prior license history. The application must
include information regarding any massage-related permit, registration or
license that has been denied, suspended or revoked, and the reasons for the
denial, suspension or revocation.
      (7)   Criminal record. The application must include the criminal or
arrest record, if any, other than misdemeanor traffic violations, of the
applicant.
      (8)   Proof of age. The application must include written proof that the
applicant is at least 18 years of age.
      (9)   Legally employable. The application must include documentation
supporting the individual's legal authority to work in the United States.
      (10)   Photographs. The application must include three recent color
photographs of the applicant, not more than two inches square.
      (11)   The application must include evidence that the applicant has a
professional liability insurance policy from an insurer licensed in New Jersey
in the amount of $500,000, which covers all acts involved with employment at a
massage establishment.
      (12)   The application must include evidence that the applicant has a
license and permit bond in the amount of $10,000 that covers all acts involved
with employment at a massage establishment.
   (C)   Licensing and application process for massage workers. Under
procedures established by the Police Department, a person may obtain a massage
establishment worker license by completing the requirements as set forth in
this chapter and submitting the information in writing to the Police Department
that, at a minimum, requires the applicant to provide:
      (1)   This section requires that all individuals who perform massages
hold a license;
      (2)   Each person applying for a massage worker license must submit a
written application, made under oath or affirmation, in the form provided by
the Zoning Office. The Zoning Office shall refer the applicant to the Police
Department to obtain the appropriate massage worker license forms. Each person
who makes an application must provide the following:
         (a)   The person's full name, residential address, and residential
telephone number;
         (b)   The name and address of the massage establishment where the
person is to be employed, and the name of the owner of the establishment;
         (c)   The names and addresses of any previous massage establishments
where the person has been employed for the three-year period preceding the date
of application;
         (d)   The applicant's employment history for the three-year period
preceding the date of application;
         (e)   A statement regarding whether the applicant has ever been
convicted of, or pled guilty to, or received probation before judgment in lien
of a conviction of, a crime other than a traffic offense for which imprisonment
was not a possible punishment; the nature of the crime and a description of the
disposition of the matter; and the name and address of any parole or probation
officer or agency that may have knowledge of the offense or the proper
completion of any sentence, probation or parole;
         (f)   All necessary signatures and approvals to authorize a complete
criminal background check;
         (g)   A copy of the applicant's fingerprints, which must be taken by
the Police Department upon payment of the fee established by this code, and
four passport-style photographs of the applicant, consisting of three front and
one side view;
         (h)   The required fee;
         (i)   The applicant's statement under oath that all of the information
contained in the application is true and correct;
         (j)   Health certification. Every applicant for a new or renewal
massage worker registration must undergo a physical examination for
communicable diseases. The examination must include a tuberculosis skin test
administered and interpreted by a licensed physician or registered nurse,
together with any other laboratory tests required as part of the examination by
a licensed physician. This certification must be issued within 30 days of the
examination, and signed by a physician stating that the person examined
appears, at the time of the exam, to be free from any communicable disease. The
examination must have been done no more than 60 days prior to submitting a new
application or the expiration date for a renewal application, An application
for issuance or renewal of a license cannot be accepted without the physician's
certificate;
         (k)   Evidence that the applicant has a professional liability
insurance policy from an insurer licensed in New Jersey in the amount of
$500,000, which covers all acts involved with their employment at a massage
establishment;
      (3)   The Police Department shall review all applications required under
this chapter and provide written notification to the Municipal Clerk of the
approval or denial of the application;
      (4)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue the appropriate license only to
those applicants that have been approved by the Police Department and have
provided a certificate of occupancy issued by the Zoning Office.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following categories of individuals and establishments
are exempt from the licensing requirements under these regulations, but, upon
request of any police officer or Township zoning official, must produce
certification from the State Board or other certifying board as proof that the
person(s) has certification or registration in good standing:
      (1)   A person who is a certified massage therapist or registered massage
practitioner or otherwise approved by the Board of Chiropractic Examiners, and
who operates an independent practice or performs massage in a massage
establishment;
      (2)   An athletic trainer who meets the following criteria and applies
for the appropriate application for an exemption:
         (a)   Currently certified by the National Athletic Trainers'
Association Board of Certification (NATABOC) or a comparable organization that
is certified by the National Commission of Certifying Agencies and works under
the supervision of a physician; or
         (b)   Affiliated with an accredited educational institution or
professional athletic organization whose members are participating in athletic
competition or events sponsored by these organizations; or
      (3)   An establishment where only certified massage therapists or
registered massage practitioners or others approved by the Board of
Chiropractic Examiners perform massage.
   (E)   Criteria for denying issuance or renewal of a massage establishment,
massage establishment manager license and/or massage establishment worker
license. A massage establishment license, massage manager license or massage
worker license shall not be issued or renewed if the Police Department
determines that:
      (1)   Any applicant or manager who has, within five years immediately
preceding the date of the application, been convicted of, pled guilty to, or
who has within the last three years immediately preceding the date of the
application been released from prison based on a conviction of, guilty plea to,
or who has been placed on probation without a finding of guilt for, or who has
within three years immediately preceding the date of the application completed
a period of probation based upon a charge for:
         (a)   Any offense involving violence, or an offense involving a
weapon;
         (b)   Any sex offense as defined in N.J.S.A. 2C of the State of New
Jersey Criminal Code, to include first and second degree rape and first,
second, third and fourth degree sex offenses;
         (c)   Prostitution or soliciting for prostitution;
         (d)   Violation of any laws governing controlled dangerous substances;
or
         (e)   Violation of gaming laws.
      (2)   Any applicant who makes a false statement or gives a false answer
to any question on any form required by the Department, or who attempts to
procure or procures a license by fraud, misrepresentation, misleading
statements, evasion or suppression of material facts.
   (F)   Change of information contained in license application.
      (1)   Each licensee to whom the Township has issued a massage
establishment license or manager license must report to the Police Department
any change in any of the information required to be provided in a massage
establishment or manager application.
      (2)   The person must make a written report of any change and deliver the
report to the Police Department at least 48 hours after learning of the change.
Failure to deliver a report of a change to the Police Department at least 48
hours after learning of it is grounds for denial or revocation of the license.
   (G)   Term of massage establishment license, manager license and worker
license. The term of each massage establishment license, manager and worker
license issued by the Township is one year, effective from January 1 and
expiring December 31 of each year.
   (H)   Massage establishment license, manager license and worker license
annual fees Except as provided in this section, each applicant must submit an
application and an annual fee in the amount established in the fee schedule to
the Clerk with the initial license application and each renewal.
   (I)   Massage establishment license, manager license and worker license
renewal.
      (1)   Any person to whom the Township has issued a massage establishment
license, manager license or worker license may renew the license, unless the
license has expired or has been revoked by the Township. Each renewal applicant
must deliver a written license renewal application, on the form provided by the
Township, to the Clerk on or before 30 days before the license expires. In the
license renewal application, the applicant must swear or affirm that the
licensed massage establishment is being operated in compliance with the minimum
standards for a massage establishment license.
      (2)   The renewal applicant must submit to the Clerk an annual fee with
the renewal application in the amount established in the fee schedule.
      (3)   The term of each renewed massage establishment license, manager
license and worker license is one year.
   (J)   Change of location for massage establishment facility. A person to
whom the Township has issued a massage establishment license must not change
the location of the massage establishment within the Township unless:
      (1)   The person notifies the Clerk in writing, on a new application
form, of the intent to change locations before the change occurs;
      (2)   The person submits a change of location fee, in the amount
established in the fee schedule, to the Clerk; and
      (3)   The Police Department approves the change of location based on
establishment licensing requirements of this Township Code.
   (K)   Massage establishment licenses not transferable. A person to whom the
Township has issued a massage establishment license must not transfer the
license to any other person.
   (L)   Inspections.
      (1)   A person who operates a massage establishment must permit the
Police Department to enter the massage establishment to conduct an inspection.
At the Police Department's request, a person operating a massage establishment
must:
         (a)   Produce all business and employment records, including customer
registries, licenses, certificates; and registrations that are required by the
State of New Jersey or this Code;
         (b)   Give the Police Department access to enter and inspect the
entire massage establishment; and
         (c)   Permit the Police Department to interview all employees,
customers, and agents of the person who is licensed to operate the massage
establishment.
      (2)   If a person who is licensed to operate a massage establishment does
not permit the Police Department to conduct an inspection as required by this
regulation, or to cooperate with an inspection, the person violates this Code,
and the Police Department may deny that person's application for a massage
establishment license or revoke that person's massage establishment license.
(Ord. 71-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 202-11, passed 12-28-11)
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.03 OPERATION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Responsibility. The licensee of a massage establishment must ensure
that the requirements of this section are carried out. Failure to do so is a
violation of this section. Where the licensee of the massage establishment
delegates duties to a manager, the manager must ensure that the requirements of
this section are carried out. Failure to do so is a violation of this section.
   (B)   Notices. Each massage establishment must:
      (1)   Have a legible sign, at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size,
posted next to or on the entrance door, identifying the premises as a massage
establishment, with the words “licensed massage establishment” and the words
“this massage establishment is subject to police inspection” printed in letters
no less than one inch in height on a background that is a contrasting color;
      (2)   Display at a location inside the establishment and visible to
individuals entering the establishment:
         (a)   The license to operate the establishment;
         (b)   The license of the massage establishment manager;
         (c)   The massage worker licenses for each person performing massage
at the establishment;
         (d)   The massage therapist certificate or massage practitioner
registration issued by the State Board to any person performing massage at the
establishment; and
         (e)   A copy of this chapter.
      (3)   Display at each location where massages are given, notice that the
premises are subject to inspection under this chapter.
   (C)   Minimum standards for massage establish- ment facilities. Each person
who operates a massage establishment in the Township that is required to hold a
massage establishment license under these regulations, and each applicant,
must:
      (1)   Locate the massage establishment in a proper zoning district as
specified in Unified Land Development Ordinance;
      (2)   Ensure that the building in which the massage establishment is
located complies with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations;
      (3)   Install at least one hand basin in each room in which massages are
administered;
      (4)   Ensure that all walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs,
steam rooms, hand basins, baths, spas, and other physical facilities located at
a massage establishment are in good repair and maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition;
      (5)   Thoroughly clean and disinfect each wet and dry heat room, steam or
vapor room, or steam or vapor cabinet, shower, bathtub, hand basin and toilet
room at the massage establishment facility after use by each patron when the
facility is in operation;
      (6)   Provide clean, laundered, and sanitary towels and linens for each
patron of the massage establishment;
      (7)   Install cabinets for the storage of clean towels and linens, and
keep the cabinets clean and sanitary;
      (8)   Ensure that all staff providing massages employed at the massage
establishment cleanse their hands thoroughly with soap and hot running water
immediately before administering each massage;
      (9)   Maintain a registry at the massage establishment, and record in the
registry the name, residence address, and a description and the date of all
services provided to each customer of the establishment;
      (10)   Require each customer of the massage establishment to provide
positive identification and to sign the registry;
      (11)   Keep the records entered in the registry of the massage
establishment for at least three years after the date of service;
      (12)   Ensure and verify that every person who administers a massage at
the massage establishment is either certified by the State Board to practice
massage therapy or registered by the State Board to practice non-therapeutic
massage, or has a Township massage worker license;
      (13)   Ensure that no illegal activity is conducted at the massage
establishment and that no person employed by the establishment has been
convicted of a crime other than traffic offenses for which a sentence of
incarceration could not have been imposed within five years immediately
preceding the date of the application;
      (14)   Maintain throughout the term of the massage establishment license
a comprehensive general liability insurance policy from an insurer licensed in
New Jersey in the minimum amount of $1,000,000, which covers all acts of a
massage establishment licensee, a certificate indicating that a massage
establishment manager(s) and all massage workers have professional liability
insurance in the amount of $500,000 each, workmen's compensation insurance as
required under state law, and a license and permit bond in the amount of
$10,000 each to cover all activities at the massage establishment. The licensee
must be able to show evidence that this requirement is met at any time to any
police officer or code enforcement official; and
      (15)   Maintain throughout the term of the massage establishment manager
and worker license professional liability insurance in the amount of $500,000
each issued by an insurer licensed in New Jersey, and a license and permit bond
in the amount of $10,000 each. A massage establishment manager and worker must
be able to show evidence that this requirement is met at any time to any police
officer or code enforcement official.
   (D)   Residency. No person may reside at a massage establishment.
   (E)   Clothing. All employees must wear opaque clothing that completely
covers their trunk at all times.
   (F)   Prohibited acts. A person required to have a massage establishment
manager or massage worker license under this Township Code must not:
      (1)   Uncover his or her erogenous areas or the erogenous areas of
another person;
      (2)   Administer a massage to a person of the opposite sex;
      (3)   Massage, or offer to massage, an erogenous area of another person;
or
      (4)   Engage in any prostitution-related activities, including but not
limited to: solicitation, assignation, pandering, common nuisance, or
prostitution in the massage establishment.
(Ord. 71-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 202-11, passed 12-28-11)
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.04 FEE SCHEDULE FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS, MANAGERS AND WORKERS.
Initial establishment application fee                             $200
(non-refundable)
Initial manager application fee (per location)                    $200
(non-refundable)
Initial worker application fee                                    $200
(non-refundable)
Establishment license fee                                         $2,000*
Establishment manager license fee                                 $500*
Establishment worker license fee                                  $500*
Duplicate license fee                                             $10
Additional charge for filing renewal application after expiration $100
Establishment change of location fee                              $1,000
 
*If an applicant files for its initial license on or after July 1, the Township
shall apply a 50% reduction in the initial license fee. The regular license fee
shall apply for each year thereafter.
(Ord. 71-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 202-11, passed 12-28-11)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine exceeding $500, or to imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 71-05, passed 6-27-05; Am. Ord. 202-11, passed 12-28-11)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
   
131.   WILDLIFE FEEDING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Children in Need of Supervision
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Applicable Activity
   
130.03   Responsibility of parent
   
130.04   Enforcement
   
130.05   Violations
Disorderly Persons
   
130.25   Purpose
   
130.26   Definitions
   
130.27   Certain acts prohibited
Firearms
   
130.40   Discharge and possession of firearms restricted
   
130.41   Property to be posted; written permission to discharge firearms
   
130.42   Exemptions
Paintball Guns and Devices
   
130.45   Discharge of paintball guns and devices restricted
   
130.46   Property to be posted; written permission to discharge paintball guns
and devices
Litter Control
   
130.55   Purpose
   
130.56   Definitions
   
130.57   Prohibited acts and regulated activities
   
130.58   Owner or occupant responsible
   
130.59   Enforcement
   
130.60   Penalties
Obscene Materials
   
130.75   Definitions
   
130.76   Purpose
   
130.77   Prohibited acts
   
130.78   Presumptive evidence of violation
Smoking
   
130.85   Scope and application
   
130.86   Definition
   
130.87   General requirements
   
130.88   Enforcement
   
130.89   Smoking prohibited on township owned property
Sex Offender Residency Requirements
   
130.95   Definitions
   
130.96   Sex offender residency requirements
   
130.99   Penalty
CHILDREN IN NEED OF SUPERVISION
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms used herein are defined as
follows:
   APPREHENDING OFFICER. The person or official who was first informed of or
discovered the whereabouts of the minor child covered by this chapter.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of fourteen years.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business carried on for profit
or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is invited.
   PARENT. Any natural parent of any child, a guardian or any adult person of
the age of 21 years or over who is responsible for the care, custody and
control of any child.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, road, alley, park, playground,
wharf, dock, public building or vacant lot in the city.
   REMAIN. To loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon any establishment
or public place.
(Ord. 890-98, passed 9-14-98)
§ 130.02 APPLICABILITY ACTIVITY.
   (A)   No child under the age of 14 years shall remain in or upon any public
place or establishment after the hour of 10:00 p.m., on each and every Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following morning
or after the hour of 11:00 pm on each and every Friday and Saturday until 6:00
a.m. of the following morning, unless accompanied by a parent, as defined in §
130.80 of this chapter. A child shall not be considered covered by this chapter
in the following cases:
      (1)   When a child is accompanied by a parent of such child or by an
adult authorized by a parent of such child to take the parent's place in
accompanying the child for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area.
      (2)   When the child is on an errand involving a medical emergency as
directed by a parent of such child.
      (3)   When a child is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech and the right of assembly, by carrying upon his or her person a writing
signed by the child and countersigned by a parent of such child with their home
address and telephone number, specifying when, where and in what manner the
child will be in a public place during hours when this chapter is applicable to
the child in the exercise of the First Amendment right specified in such
writing.
      (4)   When a child is on the sidewalk or property where the child resides
or on either side of or across the street from the place where the child
resides and the adult owner or resident of that property has given permission
for the child to be there.
      (5)   When a child is returning home by a direct route (without any
unnecessary detour or stop) from and within one hour of the termination of a
school activity or an activity of a cultural, educational or social event
sponsored by a religious or community based organization.
      (6)   When the child is legally employed and is traveling to or returning
home from, by a direct rout, the child's place of employment.
      (7)   When the child is, with parental consent, engaged in normal
interstate travel through the Township or originating or terminating in the
Township.
(Ord. 890-98, passed 9-14-98)
§ 130.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT.
   No parent, as defined in
§ 130.01 of this chapter, of any child under the age of 14 years shall permit
such child to remain in or upon any public place or establishment after the
hour of 10:00 p.m. on each and every Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following morning or after the hour of 11 :00
pm on each and every Friday and Saturday until 6:00 a.m. of the following
morning unless accompanied by such parent.
(Ord. 890-98, passed 9-14-98)
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If an Apprehending Officer reasonably believes that a child is on or
about a public place in violation of this chapter, the Apprehending Officer
shall notify the child that (s)he is in violation of these provisions and shall
require the child to provide his/her name, address and telephone number and
information on how to contact his/her parents or guardians. The child shall
then be taken to police headquarters where a parent or guardian shall
immediately be notified to come for the child. A complete record of the
circumstances under which the child was first seen or discovered in the
apparent violation of this chapter shall be made. Such record shall include the
name and address of the child, the names and addresses of all persons who have
any legal or moral obligation for the child's well-being and the nature of such
obligation, as, for example, parent, guardian or custodian.
   (B)   When a parent or guardian has come to take charge of the child and the
appropriate information has been recorded, the child shall then be released to
the custody of such parent.
   (C)   If the parent cannot be located or fails to take charge of the child,
then the child shall be released in accordance with policy regulations which
provide that the child may temporarily be entrusted to an adult relative,
neighbor or other person who will, on behalf of a parent or guardian, assume
the responsibility of caring for the child pending the availability or arrival
of a parent or guardian.
(Ord. 890-98, passed 9-14-98)
§ 130.05 VIOLATIONS.
   In the case of a first violation by a child, the Chief of Police or his
designee shall cause a written notice of the violation, with a warning that any
subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this chapter, including
enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable penalties, to be
served upon the child's parent or legal guardian, either by personal service or
by certified mail. If, after the warning notice of a first violation by the
child, a parent violates § 130.82 in connection with a second violation by the
child, this shall be treated as a first offense by the parent.
(Ord. 890-98, passed 9-14-98)
DISORDERLY PERSONS
§ 130.25 PURPOSE.
   The Township Committee, believing that certain action is required to
preserve and safeguard the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the township and being desirous of providing for the aforesaid, does hereby
enact this subchapter forbidding public fighting, assault and battery upon
other persons and disturbances caused either while drunk or sober, which would
tend to disturb the peace and quiet and good order of the community.
('74 Code, § 53-1) (Ord. 693-94, passed 3-14-94)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSAULT AND BATTERY.  An attempt or offer to unlawfully touch the body of
another, willfully or in anger.
   FIGHTING. Two or more persons committing or attempting to commit assault and
battery upon one another, in public or private place.
   PUBLIC DISTURBANCE. Any disturbance caused when either drunk or sober, which
tends to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the neighborhood.
('74 Code, § 53-2) (Ord. 693-94, passed 3-14-94)
§ 130.27 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the following acts:
   (A)   No person shall commit an assault and battery upon any Township
official acting in the performance of his or her duties while in uniform or
exhibiting evidence of his or her authority.
   (B)   No person shall commit an assault and battery upon any private citizen
or person.
   (C)   No person shall disturb the peace and quiet of the community in any
manner while either drunk or sober.
('74 Code, § 53-3) (Ord. 693-94, passed 3-14-94)
Penalty, see § 130.99
FIREARMS
§ 130.40 DISCHARGE AND POSSESSION OF FIREARMS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall discharge any firearm upon or across any state, county or
municipal road or highway, and no person shall have in his or her possession,
for the purpose of hunting, taking or killing wildlife, a loaded gun within 450
feet of any public buildings, parks, grounds, private dwellings or other
buildings used for human habitation within the Township.
('74 Code, § 62A-1) (Ord. 716-94, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 5-14-
01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.41 PROPERTY TO BE POSTED; WRITTEN PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE FIREARMS.
   Property owners who discharge firearms on their own land or give permission
to others to do so shall post their land to indicate the 450-foot limit beyond
which such discharge is prohibited; such permission shall be in writing and
shall be carried by the person relying on such permission.
('74 Code, § 62A-2) (Ord. 716-94, passed 11-28-94)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.42 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any police officer, game officer, peace
officer, guard or any person authorized to carry a pistol or firearm in
connection with his or her work.
('74 Code, § 62A-3) (Ord. 716-94, passed 11-28-94)
Penalty, see § 130.99
PAINTBALL GUNS AND DEVICES
§ 130.45 DISCHARGE OF PAINTBALL GUNS AND DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall discharge any apparatus known as a "paintball gun or device"
including any air gun, pellet gun, or any other instrument which propels
projectiles upon or across any state, county or municipal road or highway or
within 450 feet of any public buildings, parks, grounds, private dwellings or
other buildings used for human habitation within the Township.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 4-23-01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.46 PROPERTY TO BE POSTED; WRITTEN PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE PAINTBALL GUNS
AND DEVICES.
   Property owners who discharge any apparatus known as a "paintball gun or
device" including any air gun, pellet gun, or any other instrument which
propels projectiles on their own land, or give permission to others to do so,
shall post their land to indicate the 450-foot limit beyond which such
discharge is prohibited; such permission shall be in writing and shall be
carried by the person relying on such permission.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 4-23-01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
LITTER CONTROL
§ 130.55 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to establish requirements to control
littering in the township so as to protect public health, safety and welfare
and to prescribe penalties for the failure to comply.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 130.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the
text of this section clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage or collection receptacle
approved by the township.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Any used or unconsumed substance or waste material which has been
discarded, whether made of aluminum, glass, plastic, rubber, paper or other
natural or synthetic material, or any combination thereof, including, but not
limited to, any bottle, jar or can or any top, cap or detachable tab of any
bottle,  jar or can, any unlighted cigarette, cigar, match or any flaming or
glowing material or any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish, grass
clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspapers, magazines, glass, metal,
plastic or paper containers or other packaging or construction material, but
does not include the waste of the primary processes of milling or other
extraction processes, logging, sawmilling, farming or manufacturing.
   PARK. A park, playground, recreation center or any other public area owned
or used by the township or local authorized governmental agencies and devoted
to active or passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association
or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal jurisdiction.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designated or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps or vestibule belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any or all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All solid waste, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street
cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial
wastes.
   RUBBISH. Solid waste consisting of both combustible and noncombustible
wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigars, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, scrap
metals, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
material.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 130.57 PROHIBITED ACTS AND REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, deposit, discard
or otherwise place any litter of any nature upon any public or private property
other than in an authorized private receptacle or public receptacle for such
purpose, or having done so, to allow such litter to remain.
   (B)   No person shall sweep into or deposit into any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of any litter from any building or lot or from
any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of the property free of litter. This
provision shall not apply to those periods of time fixed by the township for
the collection of litter.
   (C)   No person, while driver or passenger in any vehicle or boat, shall
throw or deposit litter upon any street, public place or upon private property.
Whenever any litter is thrown, is discarded or allowed to fall from a vehicle
or boat in violation of this section, the operator or owner, or both, of the
vehicle or boat shall also be deemed to have violated this section.
   (D)   No person shall load, drive or move any truck or other vehicle unless
the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or
litter from being void or deposited upon any street or any public place.
   (E)   No person shall throw or deposit any litter in any fountain, stream,
river, skating rink or any other body of water in a park or recreation area or
elsewhere in the township.
   (F)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or vacant
private property whether owned by such person or not, provided the owner or
person in control of the property may maintain private receptacles for
collection of litter.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 130.58 OWNER OR OCCUPANT RESPONSIBLE.
   The owner, agent, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person who manages or
controls a building or lot shall be jointly or severally responsible for
keeping the sidewalk, flagging, curbstone and the airshafts, areaways,
backyards, courts, parking lots and alleys free from litter.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 130.59 ENFORCEMENT.
   This section shall be enforced by the Police Department and/or the local
code enforcement official of the township.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 130.60 PENALTIES.
   Any person who is found to be in violation of the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for each offense.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
OBSCENE MATERIALS
§ 130.75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the character and content of the material or
having failed to exercise reasonable inspection of the material which would
disclose its character and content.
   OBSCENE MATERIALS. Any description, narrative account, display or depiction
of a specified anatomical area or sexual activity which, by means of posing,
composition, format or animated sensual details, emits sensuality with
sufficient impact to concentrate prurient interest on the area or activity.
Specified anatomical area and specified sexual activity shall be defined
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:34-3 and it is contended that such terms shall have
those statutorily defined meanings for purposes of construction of this
subchapter.
   RETAILER. Any person who operates a store, newsstand, booth, concession or
other similar business with unimpeded access to persons under the age of 18 and
who is in the business of making sales of periodicals or other publications at
retail containing pictures, drawings or photographs.
(Ord. 805-97, passed 5-19-97)
§ 130.76 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter shall include the regulation of the display of
certain obscene materials which are offered for retail sales and distribution
in such a manner as to prevent their casual observance by persons under 18
years of age.
(Ord. 805-97, passed 5-19-97)
§ 130.77 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person who operates a retail establishment shall display or permit to be
displayed at his business premise any obscene materials at a height of less
than five feet or without a blinder or other covering placed or printed on the
material displayed.
(Ord. 805-97, passed 5-19-97)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.78 PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION.
   A public display of obscene materials shall constitute presumptive evidence
that the retailer knowingly made or permitted the display.
(Ord. 805-97, passed 5-19-97)
SMOKING
§ 130.85 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   In accordance with Chapter 96 of the New Jersey Public Laws of 1989, smoking
of tobacco is prohibited anywhere in buildings owned, operated, leased or
rented by the Eastern Camden County Regional Board of Education, except as part
of classroom instruction or a theatrical production.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 10-28-02)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.86 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or implies a different meaning.
   SMOKING. The burning of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other matter or
substance that contains tobacco.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 10-28-02)
§ 130.87 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every entrance to Board of Education buildings shall be posted with a
sign stating, "SMOKING PROHIBITED, VIOLATORS SUBJECT TO FINE."
   (B)   Signs also shall be located in all lavatories, staff gathering places,
such as work areas, corridors and classrooms used by the public.
   (C)   Every sign shall contain lettering not less than two inches in height,
and shall be so located to be clearly visible to the public.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 10-28-02)
§ 130.88 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The principal of each school shall be responsible for enforcement of
the state law and this subchapter.
   (B)   In particular, each school principal shall notify violators, in
writing, that they must comply with the Board's policy, and warn them that
subsequent violations will result in a complaint to the Police Department.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 10-28-02)
§ 130.89 SMOKING PROHIBITED ON TOWNSHIP OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Smoke free public lands. No person shall smoke or use any tobacco
product within the boundary of Voorhees Township owned land, or any property
which is owned, maintained or in the possession of the township, including, but
not limited to all parks, playgrounds, active and passive recreational
facilities, the Municipal Complex and the Department of Public Works. This
prohibition shall also apply to smokeless tobacco and the use of any electronic
device that can be used to deliver nicotine or other substances to the person
inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to, an electronic
cigarette, cigar, cigarillo, or pipe.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TO SMOKE. The burning of, inhaling from, exhaling the smoke from or the
possession of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or other paraphernalia that can
be used to consume tobacco or a tobacco like substance.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product containing any tobacco for personal
consumption including, but not limited to, cigarettes, electronic cigarettes,
cigars, little cigars, cigarillos, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, smoking
tobacco and their substitutes, and dry and moist snuff.
   (C)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Voorhees Township
Municipal Police Department.
(Ord. 229-13, passed 4-22-13; Am. Ord. 353-19, passed 9-23-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
SEX OFFENDER  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 130.95 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or implies a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual convicted of a sex offense as defined in N.J.S.A. 2C:
7-2.
   RESIDENCE. Any place where a person lives either temporarily or permanently.
(Ord. 73-05, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 116-07, passed 12-27-07)
§ 130.96 SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person over the age of 18 who has been convicted of a violation of
any crime against a minor as set forth in N.J.S.A. 2C:7-2, and who as a result
of said conviction is required to register with the appropriate authorities as
a Tier 3 sex offender, shall be permitted to reside or live within 2,500 feet
of any public or private school, public park or playground, or daycare center
located within the boundaries of the Township.
   (B)   Any person who resides or lives within 2,500 feet of any public or
private school, public park or playground, or daycare center in the Township
who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:7-2 shall
have 60 days from receipt of written notice from the Police Chief, or designee,
to move from that residence. A failure to move to a new residence or location
within the notice time period, which would be in compliance with this section,
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (C)   This section shall not be applied to any person defined as a sex
offender in accordance with N.J.S.A. 2C:7-2 who has established a residence
within the Township prior to the adoption of this section. Proof of residency
prior to the adoption date of this section shall be required to be provided to
the Police Chief, or designee.
   (D)   The Governing Body for the Township shall adopt and approve a map
prepared by the Township Consulting Engineer which will establish and depict
the location and boundaries of the area on or within 2,500 feet of any public
or private school, public park or playground, or daycare center located in the
Township. This map shall be an exhibit to Ordinance No. 116-07, passed December
27, 2007 and incorporated by reference into this section. This map, upon the
adoption of this section, shall become an official record of the Township to be
maintained and filed with Ordinance No. 116-07 in the Office of the Township
Clerk. A true copy of the ordinance and map shall be provided at a reasonable
cost to any person, agency or court which may, from time to time, request such
a copy, together with a certification from the Township Clerk that the
ordinance and map is a true copy approved and adopted by the Township. This map
shall be updated on a periodic basis as required if the location of such
property changes in any respect.
   (E)   It is understood that the map included with and incorporated by
reference as part of the adoption of this section was prepared for and is
intended to be used as evidence in prosecutions for violation of this section
and the map shall constitute prima facie evidence of the following:
      (1)   The location of each public or private school, public park or
playground, or daycare center located within the Township;
      (2)   The boundaries of the real property so identified;
      (3)   That the property depicted on the map is, and continues to be used
for the identified purposes; and
      (4)   The location and boundaries of areas that are or within 2,500 feet
of such property.
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to and punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment in the
county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both, and each day's
continuance of the violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
(Ord. 73-05, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 116-07, passed 12-27-07)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise specifically provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of
§§ 130.40 through
130.42 and
§§ 130.45 and
130.46, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,000 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both.
('74 Code, § 62A-4) (Ord. 716-94, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 4-23-
01)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of
§ 130.77, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days, or both, for each
violation for which the retailer is found guilty.
(Ord. 805-97, passed 5-19-97)
   (D)   Any child, as such term is defined in
§ 130.01 of this chapter, who violates any provision of
§§ 130.01 through
130.05 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by being sentenced to
community service for a term not exceeding 40 hours. Any parent, as such term
is defined in
§ 130.01 of this chapter, who violates any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000 or by being
sentenced to community service not exceeding 40 hours or both. If both the
child and the parent violate this chapter, they shall be required to perform
community service together. Any child who violates any of the provisions of
§§ 130.01 through
130.05 more than three times shall be reported by the Chief of Police to the
Camden County Superior Court, Family Part, as a delinquent juvenile.
(Ord. 890-98, passed 9-14-98)
   (E)   Upon conviction, violators of
§§ 130.85 -
130.88, shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   A first offense will result in a fine of not less than $25 nor more
than $50;
      (2)   A second offense will result in a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $100;
      (3)   A third and any subsequent offense shall result in a fine of not
less than $100 nor more than $150;
      (4)   Continued violations will be considered to be flaunting the law and
this policy, and shall result in barring the person and/or the person's
organization from school buildings.
   (F)   Any person found to be in violation of
§ 130.89 shall be issued a summons and shall be subject to the following
penalties:
      (1)   First offense: a fine of not less than $100 and not to exceed $150.
      (2)   Second offense: a fine of not less than $150 and not to exceed
$250.
      (3)   Subsequent offenses: a fine of not less than $300 and not to exceed
$500.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 10-28-02; Am. Ord. 229-13, passed 4-22-13; Am. Ord. 331-18,
passed 8-13-18)
CHAPTER 131: WILDLIFE FEEDING
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Prohibition on feeding wildlife, wild waterfowl and migrating
waterfowl
   
131.04   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the feeding of unconfined
wildlife in any public park or on any other property owned or operated by the
township so as to protect public health, safety and welfare and to prescribe
penalties for failure to comply.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the
text of this chapter clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   FEED. To give, place, expose, deposit, distribute or scatter any edible
material with the intention of feeding, attracting or enticing wildlife.
Feeding does not include baiting in the legal taking of fish and/or game.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association
or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal jurisdiction.
   WILDLIFE. All animals that are neither human nor domesticated.
   WILD WATERFOWL or MIGRATING WATERFOWL. Those non-domesticated species of
birds known as swans, geese, gulls, brants, ducks or other types of waterfowl,
which are not owned, housed and maintained on private property by the owner or
occupant of such property.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 131.03 PROHIBITION ON FEEDING WILDLIFE, WILD WATERFOWL AND MIGRATING
WATERFOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed, cause to be fed or provide food
for any wildlife, wild waterfowl or migrating waterfowl or to create any
condition or allow any condition to exist which results in a threat to the
health, safety or welfare of any wildlife, wild waterfowl or migratory
waterfowl except confined wildlife such as wildlife confined in zoos, parks or
rehabilitation centers, or unconfined wildlife at environmental education
centers.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department and/or the local
code enforcement official of the township. Any person found to be in violation
of this section shall be ordered to cease the feeding immediately.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $250 for each offense.
(Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
151.   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
   
152.   ZONING DISTRICTS
   
153.   AFFORDABLE HOUSING
   
154.   IMPROVEMENT REGULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS
   
155.   [RESERVED]
   
156.   ESTABLISHMENT, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PLANNING AND ZONING
   
157.   [RESERVED]
   
158.   SCHEDULES
   
159.   CONSTRUCTION CODE
   
160.   BUILDINGS, UNSAFE
   
161.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
   
162.   VACANT AND ABANDONED PROPERTIES
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Authority
   
150.03   Purpose
   
150.04    Conformity with Master Plan, conformance required
   
150.05    Language interpretations
   
150.06   Amendments
   
150.07   Miscellaneous  provisions
   
150.08    Satellite earth station antennas
   
150.09    Severability and repealer
   
150.10   Definitions
   
150.11   Temporary structures
   
150.12   General requirements and standards
   
150.13   Accessory uses/structures
   
150.14   Fence regulations
   
150.15   Sign and flagpole regulations
   
150.16   Parking regulations
   
150.17   Renewable energy regulations
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   (A)   This Unified Land Development Ordinance is a comprehensive ordinance
regulating and limiting the uses of land and the uses and locations of
buildings and structures; regulating and restricting the height and bulk of
buildings and structures and determining the area of yards and other open
spaces; regulating and restricting the density of population; dividing the
Township of Voorhees, Camden County, New Jersey into zoning districts for such
purposes; adopting a map of Voorhees Township showing boundaries and the
classification of such districts; establishing an official map for this
municipality; establishing rules, regulations and standards governing the
subdivision and development of land within the Township; establishing a
Planning Board and a Zoning Board of Adjustment; and prescribing penalties for
the violation of its provisions.
   (B)   The short form by which this ordinance may be known shall be the
Unified Land Development Ordinance (ULDO) of the Township of Voorhees.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This ordinance is adopted pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.,
commonly known as the Municipal Land Use Law, which confers the power to
regulate the use of lands within its jurisdiction upon New Jersey
municipalities.
   (B)   This ordinance is also based upon the duly recognized police powers of
a municipality and is an exercise of the same.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.03 PURPOSE.
   The ULDO is adopted in order to promote and protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare and in the furtherance of the following specific
objectives:
   (A)   Ensuring the coordinated development of the Township in accordance
with its Master Plan.
   (B)   Lessening congestion on the streets and ensuring access to the
circulation system.
   (C)   Providing for adequate light and air.
   (D)   Preventing the overcrowding of land and buildings.
   (E)   Avoiding the undue concentration of population.
   (F)   Ensuring the conservation and protection of open space and natural
features.
   (G)   Balancing uses to meet the needs of the Township.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.04 CONFORMITY WITH THE MASTER PLAN; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Township Committee affirms by its adoption of this ordinance that
is has received and reviewed the Land Use and Housing Elements of the Voorhees
Township Master Plan, as duly adopted by the Township Planning Board, and that
this chapter is substantially consistent with the recommendations and
provisions of those elements.
   (B)   The statement of objectives, principles, assumptions, policies and
standards contained in the Voorhees Township Master Plan is adopted by
reference and shall be considered applicable to this chapter.
   (C)   All future amendments to this chapter shall be made only after a
review of the Land Use and Housing Elements of the Master Plan and in
conformity with its statement of objectives, principles, assumptions, policies
and standards.
   (D)   No development of vacant land nor any alteration, enlargement,
building, construction, rebuilding or other act with respect to existing
buildings, structures or use of lands within Voorhees Township may occur except
in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in this ULDO.
   (E)   Notwithstanding §
150.04(D) above, accessory uses permitted in the applicable zoning district for
the existing primary residential use on an existing nonconforming lot are
permitted and will not be considered an expansion of a nonconforming use so
long as such accessory use complies with all area and bulk requirements
applicable to such lot and so long as such accessory structure or use does not
increase the habitable living area of the lot.
   (F)   The following regulations shall control nonconforming uses in
existence at the time of passage of this chapter:
      (1)   If any nonconforming structure shall be more than 50% destroyed by
reason of windstorm, fire, explosion or other act of God or the public enemy,
such structure may be rebuilt but only in conformity with the provisions of
Title 15.
      (2)   No existing nonconforming structure shall be extended, added to or
altered unless such alteration or addition are in conformity with the
provisions of Title 15.
      (3)   Nothing in this §
150.04(F) shall be construed to allow the expansion of any nonconforming
structure or of any nonconforming use into any front, side or rear yard setback
or other reserved open space provided for elsewhere in Title 15.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.05 LANGUAGE INTERPRETATION.
   For purposes of this title, certain words shall have the meaning assigned to
them in §
150.10 below. These definitions are intended to interpret and clarify word
usage in the Voorhees Township Unified Land Development Ordinance and not
necessarily intended to be used to interpret or clarify word usage in other
portions of the Code of the Township of Voorhees. When words are used in the
Unified Land Development Ordinance but are not defined herein, the definitions
used in the Municipal Land Use Law, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq., as applicable,
shall control and be utilized to interpret and clarify word usage. In addition,
the following shall apply:
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future. The singular form of a
word includes the plural form and the plural form of a word includes the
singular form.
   (B)   The word "building" includes "structure" and any part thereof.
   (C)   The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for," "designed for,"
"intended for," "maintained for," "constructed for," "altered for," "converted
for," "rented for," "leased for," or "occupied for".
   (D)   The word "person" includes an individual, corporation, partnership,
incorporated association, or any similar legal entity.
   (E)   The words "include" or "including" shall not limit the term to the
specified examples, but is intended to extend their meaning to all other
instances of like kind and character.
   (F)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and not discretionary, and
the word "may" is permissive.
   (G)   The feminine gender includes the masculine gender and vice versa.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.06 AMENDMENTS.
   This title may be amended from time to time by the Township Committee, after
the appropriate referrals, notices, hearings and other requirements of law,
including the following:
   (A)   Prior to the public hearing on adoption of a zoning ordinance or any
amendments thereto, the Township Committee shall refer any such proposed
ordinance or amendment to the Planning Board pursuant to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The Planning Board shall issue a report within 35 days of referral
by the Township Committee which identifies any portion of the proposed
development regulation, revision or amendment which is inconsistent with the
master plan and any recommendations concerning these inconsistencies.
      (2)   The Planning Board may include in its report any other matter which
it deems appropriate.
      (3)   Failure of the Planning Board to render a report within the
prescribed time period shall relieve the Township Committee of its
responsibility to wait for that report before acting on the proposed
development regulation, revision or amendment.
   (B)   After receipt of the Planning Board report, or after the expiration of
the time allocated for delivery of that report, the Township Committee shall
conduct a public hearing on the merits of the proposed development regulation,
revision or amendment.
   (C)   The Township Committee shall evaluate the proposed amendment for its
inconsistency with the master plan.
   (D)   The Township Committee may enact any amendment which is in whole or
part inconsistent with the master plan and which is not designed to effectuate
the land use plan or housing plan elements but only by an affirmative vote of a
majority of its full authorized membership. In that instance, the reasons for
the action of the Township Committee shall be set forth in a resolution and
recorded in the minutes of the Township Committee.
   (E)   A protest against any proposed amendment or revision of a zoning
ordinance may be filed with the Township Clerk, signed by the owners of 20% or
more of the area of either (a) the lots or land included in such proposed
change, or (b) the lots or land within 200 feet in all directions therefrom
inclusive of street space, whether within or without the Township. In the event
such a protest is filed, the amendment or revision shall require the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members of Township Committee.
   (F)   No zoning amendment shall be submitted to or adopted by initiative or
referendum.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.07 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Unless the specific use regulations of a zone permit a use, the use
shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Residential uses, unless specifically permitted, are prohibited.
   (C)   Multi-family housing uses (whether cooperative, condominium, townhouse
or apartment style or configuration), unless specifically permitted, are
prohibited.
   (D)   Area and bulk standards and design standards specifically applicable
to a conditional use shall supersede the general area and bulk standards and
design standards otherwise applicable to the zone.
   (E)   Unless otherwise specifically stated to the contrary, the area and
bulk standards for primary uses on any property within a zone are the area and
bulk standards applicable to all accessory and conditional uses permitted in
the zone, including, but not limited to, the maximum height of all accessory
structures, which shall not exceed the maximum permitted height for any primary
structure.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any provision of
Chapter 152, all uses permitted in the CP - Community Property Zoning District
shall be permitted uses in any other district within the Township.
   (G)   Junkyards are not permitted in any zoning district.
   (H)   No truck, van, bus, trailer or other commercial vehicle in excess of
8,000 pounds registered weight shall be permitted in any residential zone or
any in residential areas of the TC - Township Center or GB2 - General Business
2 Zones, except for the purpose of picking up or making deliveries in the
regular course of business within such residential zone or area or for the
purpose of installing, maintaining or otherwise performing public utility
service. Only one truck, van, bus, trailer, taxi-cab or other commercial
vehicle under 8,000 pounds registered vehicle weight shall be permitted to be
parked on a lot in any residential zone or any residential areas in the
township or of the TC - Township Center or GB2 - General Business 2 Zones.
   (I)   Temporary facilities for conducting permitted uses outside of any
structure or other improvement identified on the current approved site plan for
the property may only occur in the location shown on the approved final site
plan for the lot. Any temporary use not on any approved site plan shall require
a temporary use permit pursuant to § 156.20 below.
   (J)   Only one use shall be permitted on any one residential lot, except for
permitted accessory uses and approved conditional uses which are intended to be
incidental to the primary residential use. No passenger vehicle or commercial
vehicle under 8,000 pounds registered vehicle weight shall be repaired on a lot
in any residential zone or in any residential areas of the TC-Township Center
or GB2-General Business 2 Zones unless registered to that residential property.
   (K)   Non-residential lots may contain more than one permitted use, subject
to all development and uses on a lot meeting the area and bulk standards of the
applicable zoning district and the requirements of
Chapter 154 and
Chapter 156, as applicable.
   (L)   Extra-territorial streets prohibited from connecting to township
streets; exceptions.
      (1)   No streets proposed in any new development within any adjoining
municipality may be connected to existing township owned and maintained streets
within this township except if one of the following specifically applies:
         (a)   The new development within the adjoining municipality has
obtained preliminary approval from the Planning Board, or Zoning Board, if
applicable, of the adjoining municipality and the reviewing board, if
applicable, of this township prior to October 13, 1997, and the connection of
one or streets within such new development is specifically shown on such
approved plans. This exception only applies to the specific streets shown on
site plans or subdivision plans receiving preliminary approval prior to October
13, 1997, and any amendment of such plan must conform to this section. If such
approval lapses or is abandoned, this exception is void.
         (b)   Both the street within the new development in the adjoining
municipality and the connecting street within this township are designed by and
will be owned and maintained by either the state or Camden County and/or
Burlington County.
         (c)   The new development within the adjoining municipality is
proposed and an application for the connecting streets is submitted along with
an application for development of lands within this township in which such
connecting streets will be constructed. This exception will only apply if the
design of the streets within this township is reviewed by the applicable
reviewing board engineer (and the Township Engineer, if applicable) and it is
determined by such engineers that the design is acceptable under state and
local safety, traffic flow and maintenance standards for the level of usage
generated by all of the proposed development, including the development within
the adjoining municipality.
         (d)   The connection of the street(s) within the new development
within the municipality is specifically required under New Jersey state law.
      (2)   This section applies to all residential, commercial and industrial
development and zoning districts. The existence of "stub" streets within any
existing development, which stub streets abut the border of this Township with
any adjoining municipality, will have no impact upon or affect the provisions
of this section and no presumption of any exception to or waiver of this
section is intended to exist simply due to the existence of such stub streets.
   (M)   No passenger vehicle or commercial vehicle under 8,000 pounds
registered vehicle weight shall be repaired or attempted to be repaired in any
manner on any residential property in any residential zone in the township or
in any residential areas of the TC - Township Center or GB2 - General Business
2 Zones unless said vehicle is registered to the owner, a resident member of
the owner's family or a registered tenant of the owner of that residential
property.
   (N)   Any and all activities and/or actions which require any decision,
action and/or inaction of the Township of Voorhees which action and/or inaction
would constitute a violation of federal law shall be prohibited in any zoning
district.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 177-10, passed 12-30-10; Am. Ord. 266-
15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 150.08 SATELLITE EARTH STATION ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Satellite television earth station dish antennas, commonly referred to
as dish antennas, including structural supports, shall be considered accessory
structures in residential zones and for residential uses in the TC-Township
Center and the GB2 - General Business 2 Zones. The following regulations shall
apply to all satellite dish antennas:
      (1)   A satellite dish antenna is permitted as an accessory use only on a
lot that contains a principal structure.
      (2)   A building structure or roof-mounted satellite dish antenna shall
not exceed 24 inches in diameter or 10 feet in overall height. A building
permit shall not be required for a satellite dish antenna less than two feet in
diameter which is attached to any building, structure or roof in accordance
with the New Jersey Uniform Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:23).
      (3)   The minimum rear and side yard setbacks for freestanding, ground-
mounted satellite dish antennas shall be 15 feet, except that the minimum rear
and side yard setbacks for freestanding, ground-mounted satellite dish antennas
in the RR - Rural Residential Zone shall be the same as the minimum rear and
side yard setbacks for buildings in the RR - Rural Residential Zone.
      (4)   In the case of a reverse frontage lot, no freestanding, ground-
mounted satellite dish antenna shall be erected closer than 25 feet from the
right-of-way line at the street which abuts the rear of the lot.
      (5)   In case of a corner lot abutting two streets, freestanding, ground-
mounted satellite dish antennas shall not be located nearer to the right-of-way
line of the street forming the side yard boundary than the required front yard
setback on such street.
      (6)   Ground-mounted satellite dish antennas shall be located in the rear
yard only. Any other placement may be permitted only upon the submission of
sufficient evidence from a competent source to indicate that reception cannot
be obtained in the rear yard.
      (7)   Power control and signal cables from the ground-mounted satellite
dish antenna to the served structure shall be buried.
      (8)   No residential lot may contain more than one satellite dish
antenna. No nonresidential lot may contain more than one satellite dish antenna
per individual business use.
      (9)   The freestanding, ground-mounted satellite dish antenna shall be
located and/or screen so that it is not visible from a public right-of-way or
any adjacent residential property. Screening shall consist of a minimum of a
double row of 100% evergreen plantings six feet apart and shall be five to six
feet high at the time of planting. A combination of landscaping and fencing may
be accepted by the Zoning Officer, at his discretion, as a substitute for the
above screening requirement. Also, partial relief from this requirement may be
granted by the Zoning Officer if, in his opinion, reception of the satellite
signal is hampered by the screening.
   (C)   Design standards.
      (1)   The surface receiving area of any reflective dish shall not exceed
25 square feet.
      (2)   The freestanding, ground-mounted satellite dish antenna shall be
erected on a secure ground-mounted foundation.
      (3)   The overall height from the ground level to the highest point of
the freestanding, ground-mounted dish satellite antenna or any attachments
thereto, when extended to their full height, shall be no more than 15 feet.
   (D)   Satellite dish antennas shall be considered permitted accessory
structures in all nonresidential zones, subject to site plan review by the
reviewing board with jurisdiction over the site plan application. Site plan
approval is not required if the proposed satellite dish antenna is less than 36
inches in diameter.
   (E)   A building permit and electrical permit will be required for the
installation of any building, structure or roof-mounted satellite dish antenna
exceeding two feet in diameter or any freestanding, ground-mounted satellite
dish antenna.
   (F)   An applicant shall obtain a zoning permit prior to the installation of
a satellite dish antenna and a certificate of conformance when the installation
is completed.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 150.09 SEVERABILITY AND REPEALER.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity as a whole or of any other part thereof.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 150.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Certain words and terms used in the Voorhees Township Unified Land
Development Ordinance are defined for the purpose thereof as follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future, the singular
number includes the plural, and the plural the singular. The word "lot"
includes the word "plot". The word "building" includes the word "structure."
The term "such as," where used herein, shall be considered as introducing a
typical or illustrative rather than an entirely exclusive or inclusive
designation of permitted or prohibited uses, activities, establishments or
structures.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   ACCESSORY USE, STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A subordinate use, structure or
building, the purpose of which is incidental to that of a main use, structure
or building on the same lot.
   ACTIVE RECREATION. Recreational activities which require physical
participation including sports such as soccer, baseball, softball, tennis,
basketball, field hockey, football, lacrosse, and street hockey; and facilities
including playground equipment of all types.
   ACUTE CARE FACILITY. A facility providing nursing care to sick, invalid,
infirm, disabled or convalescent persons in addition to lodging and board or
health-related service, or any combination of the foregoing.
   ADAPTIVE REUSE. The rehabilitation, reconstruction, revitalization or
restoration of an existing non-residential building or structure. Adaptive
reuse may also include an extension of no more than 25% of the floor area of
the existing building or structure.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER. The Zoning Officer, Planning Officer, Director of
Community Development or other Township official designated by the reviewing
board as its administrative officer.
   ADULT DAYCARE. An establishment or facility that provides a coordinated
program of services to adults who need supervised care outside their home which
primarily operate during normal daily business hours but can offer programs and
services in the evenings and weekends provided that there are no lodging or
overnight accommodations.
   ADULT USES. An establishment consisting of, including, or having the
characteristics of any or all of the following:
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, NEWS-STAND, VIDEO STORE, OR COMBINATION.  An
establishment having more than 40% of its stock-in-trade, floor area, or
display area used for the sale or rental of books, magazines, publications,
tapes, or films that are distinguished or characterized by the emphasis on
sexually oriented material depicting, describing, or relating to sexual
activities or anatomical genital areas.
      (2)   ADULT CABARET. An establishment, either with or without a liquor
license, offering sexually oriented live entertainment, which may include
topless and go-go dancers, strippers, or male or female impersonators.
      (3)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building used for presenting films
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to sexual activities or anatomical genital areas.
      (4)   SEX SHOP. Any establishment offering, for sale or rent, items from
any two of the following categories: sexually oriented books, magazines, and
videos; leather goods marketed or presented in a context to suggest their use
for sexual activities; sexually oriented toys and novelties; or video viewing
booths; or an establishment that advertises or holds itself out in any forum as
a sexually oriented business.
      (5)   VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS.  Often referred to as peep shows and
characterized by small private booths rented to individuals to view sexually
explicit films or tapes.
   APARTMENT BUILDING.
      (1)   LOW-RISE APARTMENT BUILDING. Any apartment building having one to
three floors.
      (2)   MID-RISE APARTMENT BUILDING. Any apartment building having four or
five floors.
      (3)   HIGH-RISE APARTMENT BUILDING. Any apartment building having six or
more floors.
   APARTMENT, EFFICIENCY UNIT or DWELLING UNIT. A room, or suite of two or more
rooms, which is designed for, intended for or occupied by one family or
household living as an independent unit and doing its own cooking.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity submitting an application for any permit or
approval pursuant to Title 15.
   ASSISTED LIVING UNIT. A dwelling unit varying in square feet from 200 to 500
square feet that provides a residential living environment assisted by
congregate meals, housekeeping and personal services, for persons 55 years of
age or older, who have temporary or periodic difficulties with one or more
essential activities of daily living, such as feeding, bathing, dressing or
mobility. ASSISTED LIVING UNITS shall be located in a facility that may include
accessory uses including dining rooms, bathing areas, common areas, offices and
other space necessary to provide the above services. The definition of ASSISTED
LIVING UNIT shall include any partially assisted and fully assisted living
units.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. See JUNKYARD.
   AWNING. A roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a building for the
purpose of shielding an entrance, doorway or window from the elements. For
purposes of determining if setback requirements are met, setbacks are measured
from the end of the awning.
   BACKYARD AREA. The area of useable land between the rear building wall of
the primary structure on the property and the closest of (i) the rear property
line, (ii) wetlands buffer or, if no buffer is provided, the wetlands line, or
(iii) the boundary of any conservation or other restricted area. Utility
easements located outside of the rear yard setback line, which permit the use
of the land above or below such utility installation for non-structural
improvements, are not considered restricted areas for purposes of this
definition.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground and having more than one-half (½) of
its height above ground.
   BICYCLE-COMPATIBLE ROADWAY. A road designed to accommodate the shared use of
the roadway by bicycles and motor vehicles.
   BICYCLE PATH (BIKE PATH). A bikeway physically separated from motorized
vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier, and either within the highway
right-of-way or within an independent right- of-way or easement.
   BIKEWAY. Any road, path, or way which in some manner is specifically
designated as being open to bicycle travel, regardless of whether such
facilities are designated for the exclusive use of bicycles or are to be shared
with other transportation modes.
   BUFFER. An area within a property or site, generally adjacent to and
parallel with the property line, either consisting of trees, shrubs or other
landscaping and/or berms, designed to continuously limit the view and control
other impacts of the site from adjacent sites, properties or roadways.
   BUFFER LANDSCAPING. Landscaping, including permitted fencing, placed within
designated buffers.
   BUILDABLE AREA. That central portion of any lot lying inward from all
required setback lines.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any person, animal or
chattel. The word BUILDING, whenever used herein for purposes of setbacks from
roads, boundaries or property or lot lines, shall not be construed to include
parking lots or vehicular rights-of-way.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the elevation of the
finished grade along the front of the building at the front entrance to the
highest point of the roof.
   BUSINESS, RETAIL. An establishment with the set purpose of selling
commodities or goods in relatively low quantities to ultimate consumers for
personal or household consumption.
   BUSINESS, WHOLESALE. An establishment with the set purpose of selling
commodities or goods in large quantities typically to a retail merchant for
resale.
   CANNABIS. All parts of the plant cannabis saliva and cannabis indica,
whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, and every compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant or its seeds, except
those containing resin extracted from the plant, which are cultivated and, when
applicable, manufactured in accordance with P.L. 2021, c. 16 (C.24:61-31 et
al.) for use in cannabis products, but shall not include the weight of any
other ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral
administrations, food, drink, or other product.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any person or entity that holds any of the six classes of
licenses established under P.L. 2021, c. 16, the “New Jersey Cannabis
Regulatory, Enforcement Assistance, and Marketplace Modernization Act”
(CREAMMA).
   CANNABIS CULTIVATOR. Any licensed person or entity that grows, cultivates,
or produces cannabis, and sells, and may transport, this cannabis to other
cannabis cultivators, or usable cannabis to cannabis manufacturers, cannabis
wholesalers, or cannabis retailers, but not to consumers. This person or entity
shall hold a Class 1 cannabis cultivator license.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY SERVICE. Any licensed person or entity that provides
courier services for consumer purchases of cannabis items and related supplies
fulfilled by a cannabis retailer in order to make deliveries of the cannabis
items and related supplies to that consumer, and which services include the
ability of a consumer to purchase the cannabis items directly through the
cannabis delivery service, which after presenting the purchase order to the
cannabis retailer for fulfillment, is delivered to that consumer. This person
or entity shall hold a Class 6 cannabis delivery license.
   CANNABIS DISTRIBUTOR. Any licensed person or entity that transports cannabis
in bulk intrastate from one licensed cannabis cultivator to another licensed
cannabis cultivator, or transports cannabis items in bulk intrastate from any
one class of  licensed cannabis establishment to another class of licensed
cannabis establishment, and may engage in the temporary storage of cannabis or
cannabis items as necessary to carry out transportation activities. This person
or entity shall hold a Class 4 cannabis distributor license.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cannabis cultivator, a cannabis manufacturer, a
cannabis wholesaler, or a cannabis retailer.
   CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE. An establishment with one or many of the
licenses to operate as defined by the CREAMMA Act:
      (1)   Class 1 cannabis cultivator license, for facilities involved in
growing and cultivating cannabis;
      (2)   Class 2 cannabis manufacturer license, for facilities involved in
the manufacturing, preparation, and packaging of cannabis items;
      (3)   Class 3 cannabis wholesaler license, for facilities involved in
obtaining and selling cannabis items for later resale by other licensees;
      (4)   Class 4 cannabis distributor license, for businesses involved in
transporting cannabis plants in bulk from one licensed cultivator to another
licensed cultivator, or cannabis items in bulk from any type of licensed
cannabis business to another;
      (5)   Class 5 cannabis retailer license for locations at which cannabis
items and related supplies are sold to consumers; and
      (6)   Class 6 cannabis delivery license, for businesses providing courier
services for consumer purchases that are fulfilled by a licensed cannabis
retailer in order to make deliveries of the purchased items to a consumer, and
which service would include the ability of a consumer to make a purchase
directly through the cannabis delivery service which would be presented by the
delivery service for fulfillment by a retailer and then delivered to a
consumer.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURER. Any licensed person or entity that processes cannabis
items in this state by purchasing or otherwise obtaining usable cannabis,
manufacturing, preparing, and packaging cannabis items, and selling, and
optionally transporting, these items to other cannabis manufacturers, cannabis
wholesalers, or cannabis retailers, but not to consumers. This person or entity
shall hold a Class 2 cannabis manufacturer license.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. A product containing usable cannabis, cannabis extract, or
any other cannabis resin and other ingredients intended for human consumption
or use, including a product intended to be applied to the skin or hair, edible
cannabis products, ointments, and tinctures. CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include:
(1) usable cannabis by itself; or (2) cannabis extract by itself; or (3) any
other cannabis resin by itself.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any licensed person or entity that purchases or otherwise
obtains usable cannabis from cannabis cultivators and cannabis items from
cannabis manufacturers or cannabis wholesalers, sells these to consumers from a
retail store, and may use a cannabis delivery service or a certified cannabis
handler for the off-premises delivery of cannabis items and related supplies to
consumers. A cannabis retailer shall also accept consumer purchases to be
fulfilled from its retail store that are presented by a cannabis delivery
service which will be delivered by the cannabis delivery service to that
consumer. This person or entity shall hold a Class 5 cannabis retailer license.
   CANNABIS WHOLESALER. Any licensed person or entity that purchases or
otherwise obtains, stores, sells or otherwise transfers, and may transport,
cannabis items for the purpose of resale or other transfer to either another
cannabis wholesaler or to a cannabis retailer, but not to consumers. This
person or entity shall hold a Class 3 cannabis wholesaler license.
   CANOPY. A permanent ornamental roof-like structure, or a permanent covered
area which extends from the wall of a building, protecting an entrance, doorway
or window from the elements.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Means a governmental acquisition of real property or
major construction project.
   CEILING HEIGHT, MINIMUM. The minimum ceiling height shall not be less than
seven feet six inches for all residential structures.
   CELLAR.  A story partly underground which has less than half its height
above ground level.
   CERTIFICATE OF CONFORMANCE.  A certificate issued by the Zoning Officer
pursuant to the provisions of Title 15.
   CERTIFICATE OF CONTINUED OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by the Construction
Official under the provisions of the Uniform Construction Code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-
2.23(c) and (d), as outlined in Chapter 159 of Title 15.
   CIRCULATION. Systems, structures and physical improvements for the movement
of people, goods, water, air, sewage or power by such means as streets,
highways, railways, waterways, towers, airways, pipes and conduits, and the
handling of people and goods by such means as terminals, stations, warehouses,
and other storage buildings or transshipment points.
   CLUSTER OR CLUSTERING. The grouping of buildings or lots by reducing the
minimum lot size for subdivisions or situating buildings closer together,
provided that the total development density does not exceed that which could be
constructed on the site under conventional zoning subdivision regulation unless
a density bonus is provided. The additional land that remains undeveloped is
then preserved as open space, recreational land and as an environmental
resource.
   COAH. The New Jersey Council on Affordable Housing.
   COMMERCIAL BILLBOARD. An advertising sign, structure or symbol erected and
maintained by an individual or corporation engaged in the sale or rental of
space thereon to a clientele of manufacturing, service or commercial
enterprises, upon which space there is displayed, by means of painting, posting
or other means, advertising copy describing a wide variety of products or
services which are not made, produced, assembled or sold from the lot or
premises upon which the advertisement is displayed.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.  Any residential arrangement, public or
private, other than an institution, in which one or more developmentally
disabled person resides under the sponsorship of the New Jersey Department of
Human Services pursuant to N.J.S.A. 30:6D-13, et seq., as amended. A family
home in which all of the developmentally disabled persons residing within are
related to the head of the household by blood, marriage or adoption is not a
community residential facility.
   COMPREHENSIVE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY (CRC). A facility which has a primary
purpose of providing housing and continuing care for people 55 years of age or
older or where either the husband or wife is 55 years of age or older, and
consists of independent apartment units, assisted living units, skilled care
nursing units and single family detached and attached residential dwelling
units and which must include comprehensive retirement community accessory uses.
   COMPREHENSIVE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY ACCESSORY USES. Within a Comprehensive
Retirement Community, any use reasonably necessary for, or incidental to, the
operation of the facility or for the benefit or convenience of the residents
and their guests including, but not limited to, kitchen and dining  facilities,
exercise and vocational rooms, places of worship, indoor and outdoor
recreational buildings and uses including swimming pools, retail and banking
facilities, beauty salons and barber shops, gift shops, class rooms, security
facilities, conference rooms, common areas, guest rooms, administration,
general, medical and other offices associated with the CRC, postal center,
pharmacy, maintenance facilities, hobby, craft and music rooms, library,
computer and television rooms, and heating and cooling equipment structures,
off-street parking signs as permitted and garages, provided that the
Comprehensive Retirement Community Accessory Use is for the use and benefit of
the Comprehensive Retirement Community.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon a
showing that such use in a specified location will comply with the conditions
and standards for the location or operation of such use as contained in the
zoning ordinance, and upon the issuance of an authorization therefore by the
Planning Board.
   CONTRIBUTION. Every loan, gift, subscription, advance or transfer of money
or other thing of value, including any item of real property or personal
property, tangible or intangible (but not including services provided without
compensation by individuals volunteering a part or all of their time on behalf
of a candidate, committee or organization), made to or on behalf of any
candidate, candidate committee, joint candidates committee, political
committee, continuing political committee or political party committee and any
pledge, promise or other commitment or assumption of liability to make such
transfer.
   CONTRIBUTION DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. A list specifying the amount, date and
the recipient of any and all contributions, made up to one year prior to the
date of filing of the Contribution Disclosure Statement with the reviewing
board, to or on behalf of any candidate, candidate committee, joint candidates
committee, political committee, continuing political committee  or political
party committee of, or pertaining to, the Township, which contributions are
required to be reported pursuant to N.J.S.A. 19:25-10.1 to 10.14. For purposes
of completing a Contributions Disclosure Statement, any commitment or
assumption shall be deemed to have been a contribution on the date when such
commitment was or is made or the liability was assumed.
   CONSERVATION AREA or CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A designated area of land which
is intended to be preserved and managed for the protection of its natural
resources and, where appropriate, opened to the public for passive enjoyment of
the natural resources.
   CONSTRUCTION OFFICIAL. The official appointed by the Township Committee and
who holds such position pursuant to and in accordance with §§
30.065 through
30.067.
   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.  A permit required for the erection, alteration, or
extension of a structure.
   CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY (CCRC). A facility which has a primary
purpose of providing housing and continuing care for people 55 years of age or
older or where either the husband or wife is 55 years of age or older, and
consists of Independent Apartment Units, Assisted Living Units, Skilled Care
Nursing Units and/or Continuing Care Retirement Community Accessory Uses all as
defined herein and as regulated by N.J.S.A. 52:27D-330 through 357, known as
the Continuing Care Retirement Community Regulation and Financial Disclosure
Act. For purposes of this Ordinance, CONTINUING CARE means the provision of
lodging, nursing, medical or other health related services at the same or
another location to an individual pursuant to an agreement effective for the
life of the individual or for a period greater than one year, including
mutually terminable contracts, and in consideration of the payment of an
entrance fee with  or without other periodic charges to an individual who is 55
years of age or older, or where either the husband or the wife is 55 years of
age or older.
   CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITY ACCESSORY USES. Within a Continuing
Care Retirement Community, any use reasonably necessary for, or incidental to,
the operation of the facility or for the benefit or convenience of the
residents and their guests including, but not limited to: kitchen and dining
facilities, exercise and vocational rooms, places of worship, indoor and
outdoor recreational buildings and uses including swimming pools, retail and
banking facilities, beauty salons and barber shops, gift shops, class rooms,
security facilities, conference rooms, common areas, guest rooms,
administration, general, medical and other offices associated with the CCRC,
postal center, pharmacy, maintenance facilities, hobby, craft and music rooms,
library, computer and television rooms, and heating and cooling equipment
structures, off-street parking and loading areas as required for the use of
occupants of the CCRC and signs as permitted and garages, provided that the
Continuing Care Retirement Community Accessory Use is for the use and benefit
of the Continuing Care Retirement Community.
   COUNTY MASTER PLAN. A composite of the master plan for the physical
development of the county in which the municipality is located, with the
accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive and explanatory matter adopted
by the County Planning Board.
   DECK. An open floor type structure having neither roof, walls, nor enclosing
features except for safety handrails.
   DENSITY. The permitted number of dwelling units per gross area of land to be
developed.
   DETENTION BASIN. A man- made or natural storm water management collector
facility designed  to collect surface and sub- surface water in order to impede
its flow and to release the same gradually at a rate not greater than that
prior to the development of the property, into natural or man-made outlets.
   DEVELOPMENT. The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels, the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any building or other structure, or of any mining, excavation or
landfill, and any use or change in the use of any building or other structure,
or land or extension of use of land, for which permission may be required
pursuant to this act.
   DEVELOPMENT FEES. The money paid by an individual, person, partnership,
association, company or corporation for the improvement of property as
permitted in COAH' s rules.
   DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY.  Includes but is not limited to severe
disabilities attributable to mental retardation, autism, cerebral palsy,
epilepsy, spina bifida and other neurological impairments where the above
criteria are met.
   DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON. A person with a severe, chronic disability
that meets the following:
      (1)   Is attributable to a mental or physical impairment or combination
of mental or physical impairments;
      (2)   Is manifest before age 22;
      (3)   Is likely to continue indefinitely;
      (4)   Results in substantial functional limitations in three or more of
the following areas of major life activity: self-care, receptive and expressive
language, learning, mobility, self-direction and capacity for independent
living or economic self-sufficiency; and
      (5)   Reflects the need for a combination and sequence of special
interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other services that are of
lifelong
or extended duration and are individually planned and coordinated.
   DISABLED PERSON. An individual (a) with a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more of the major life activities of such
individual, (b) with a record of such an impairment, or (c) who is regarded as
having such an impairment.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for two or more apartments or dwelling units, including apartment
houses, apartment hotels and flats but not including automobile courts.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY ATTACHED. A townhouse, duplex or other dwelling unit
that is attached to but is not above or below any other unit, has its own
entrance directly to the exterior of the building and shares at least one
common side wall with another dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED. A detached building designed for or
occupied exclusively by one family or dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY SEMI- DETACHED. A building occupying a single lot,
separated into two usually identical or “twin” side-by-side dwelling units by a
vertical party wall, unpierced except for access to the outside or to a common
basement or cellar.
   DWELLING UNIT (DU). A room or group of connected rooms that are designed for
permanent residency containing living space, cooking, sleeping and sanitary
facilities for one housekeeping unit for the exclusive use of a single family
maintaining a household. Dwelling units provide permanent living quarters, as
opposed to motels or other temporary accommodations.
   EFFICIENCY STRUCTURE. A one- or two-story structure housing two or more
dwelling units designed only for residential occupancy on a cooperative or
rental basis, which units include complete minimum housekeeping facilities for
a family group.
   ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY BOARD. The advisory body established under and
pursuant to § 32.035 through § 32.043 of the Township Code.
   EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE. The value of a property determined by the
municipal tax assessor through a process designed to ensure that all property
in the municipality is assessed at the same assessment ratio or ratios required
by law. Estimates at the time of issuance of a building permit may be obtained
utilizing estimates for construction cost. Final equalized assessed value will
be determined at project completion by the municipal Tax Assessor.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living as a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit
who share common expenses and housekeeping chores, as distinguished from
individuals or groups occupying a hotel, club, fraternity or sorority house.
The FAMILY shall be deemed to include necessary servants when servants share
the common housekeeping facilities and services.
   FARMING. Agricultural activity or the raising of livestock, poultry or small
animals as a major source of income and if conducted on a lot or plot of not
less than two acres in area.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The United States Agency
responsible for Federal programs related to emergency and disaster mitigation
and response.
   FENCE.  An artificially constructed barrier of wood, wire, metal or any
other manufactured material or combination of materials.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The official action of the reviewing board taken on a
preliminary approved major subdivision or site plan after all conditions,
engineering plans and other requirements have been completed or fulfilled and
the requirement improvements have been installed or guarantees properly posted
for their completion, or approval conditioned upon the posting of such
guarantees.
   FLOODPLAIN (100 YEAR). The area which is calculated to be inundated with
flood waters during a 100 year storm. The 100 year storm has a one percent
chance of occurring in any one year.
   FLOOR AREA. The total enclosed horizontal area of a structure used for
residential, business or commercial activities. Floor area may include the area
enclosed by the exterior foundation wall excluding garages, open patios,
unfinished basements and unfinished attics for residential uses and customer
facilities, showcase facilities, storage and sales facilities for business and
commercial uses.
   GARAGE. A building used for the housing or storing of self- propelled motor
vehicles or unit portions thereof designed for use on public highways.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage for the housing of the motor vehicles only of the
property occupants, not to exceed three motor vehicles. A PRIVATE GARAGE may
not exceed 800 square feet in total floor area.
   GROUND COVER. Low-growing plants or sod that in time form a dense mat
covering the area in which they are planted preventing soil from being blown or
washed away and the growth of unwanted plants.
   HISTORIC SITE. Any real property, man-made structure, natural object or
configuration or any portion or group of the foregoing of historical,
archaeological, cultural, scenic or architectural significance.
   HOME BUSINESS. Any business that the operator thereof operates from his or
her residential property and that has one or more employees who work in or from
the residential property; has clients, customers, patients or patrons who come
to the residential property for the conduct of the owner's or occupant's
business; has regular deliveries of inventory, goods, materials, equipment or
products to and from the residential property; and/or stores  inventory, goods,
materials, equipment or products on the residential property. Home business
shall not mean the establishment of an in- residential property office by an
occupant of the residential property, whether or not the operator owns the
business and/or performs all duties of the business out of his/her residential
property, so long as all work performed from such location is primarily done
through desktop use of computers, facsimile machines and other
telecommunication equipment and facilities; there are no employees of the
business; no clients, customers, patients or other patrons come to the
residential property; and no inventory, equipment, materials or other items
used in or sold through the business are delivered to or from or stored at the
residential property, except for minimal quantities of standard office supplies
used solely for the desktop equipment. The home business shall be clearly
secondary or accessory to the primary residential use of the principal
structure and shall not be conducted in more than 250 square feet or 10%,
whichever is less, of the total living area of the residential property.
Whether a business or occupation is classified as a home business for purposes
of this chapter shall be determined on a case-by- case basis by the Zoning
Officer of Voorhees Township based on the review of the actual facts and
circumstances.
   HOSPITAL. An institution housed in a building or a series of buildings
providing public health services primarily for in- patient medical or surgical
care of the sick or injured and including related facilities, such as out-
patient and emergency departments, conference, training, diagnostic and central
service facilities, cafeteria, gift shop, pharmacies, administrative and staff
offices and employee day care, which are integrated with the hospital
facilities or complex.
   HOTEL. An establishment that provides paid lodging on a short-term basis and
shall not be for permanent residency. Said establishment shall provide lodging
for the public access from a common centralized lobby and must contain a
centralized elevator and can offer a range of on-site services which may
include restaurants, meeting rooms, and other amenities. A hotel may not have
exterior access to the lodging units.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT.  One or more persons living together in one dwelling unit
and using or sharing living space, cooking, sleeping, and sanitary facilities.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that has been covered by buildings, structures
or compacted or covered with a layer of material so that it is highly resistant
to infiltration by water. Impervious surface shall not include the water area
of a swimming pool but shall include, but not be limited to, paver patios and
such similar improvements or ground cover that otherwise meet the definition
set forth herein.
   IN-LAW SUITES. A room or group of rooms added to an existing single family
detached unit designed for habitation as part of a single housekeeping unit and
physically accessible from the main structure and subject to the same bulk
regulations.
   INDEPENDENT APARTMENT UNIT. A dwelling unit containing living areas, bedroom
areas, kitchen areas and bathrooms, including studio style apartments, with a
minimum area of 350 square feet, which house one or more people 55 years of age
or older, or where either the husband or wife is 55 years of age or older, in a
manner in which they may live independently while receiving one or more meals
per day in a congregate setting.
   JUDGMENT OF REPOSE. A judgment issued by the Superior Court approving a
municipality's plan to satisfy its fair share obligation.
   JUNKYARD. The use of any lot for the storage, keeping or abandonment of
junk, including scrap metals or other scrap material, or for the dismantling,
demolition or abandonment of structures, automobiles or other vehicles,
equipment and machinery or parts thereof, provided, however, that this
definition shall not be deemed to include any of the foregoing uses which are
accessory and incidental to any agricultural or industrial use permitted in any
zone. The term JUNKYARD as herein defined includes automobile wrecking yards.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. The fabrication, assembly or processing, or the storage in
bulk, of goods and materials inside of a building where such activities or
materials create no hazard from fire or explosion or produce no toxic or
corrosive fumes, gas, smoke, odors, obnoxious dust or vapor, offensive noise or
vibration, glare, flashes or objectionable effluent.
   LIVING SPACE. An area within a
dwelling unit.
   LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by a plat or
otherwise as permitted by law and to be used, developed or built upon as a
unit.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot on the junction of land abutting two or more intersecting
streets where the interior angle of intersection does not exceed 135 degrees.
Each corner lot shall have one primary front yard, one non-primary front yard,
one side yard and one rear yard. The primary front yard is determined by the
location of the front entrance to the primary structure. The rear yard shall
always be opposite the front entrance to the primary structure on such corner
lot.
   LOT SIZE. The total horizontal area included within lot lines. Where the
front lot line is the center line of a street or lies in part or in whole in
the street area, the lot area shall not include that part of the lot in use or
to be used as a right-of-way.
   LOT DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and a
line drawn parallel to the front lot line through the midpoint of the rear lot
line, provided that in triangular lots having no rear lot line the distance
shall be measured to the midpoint of a line parallel to the front lot line
which shall be not less than ten feet in length measured between its
intersections with the side lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. That portion of a lot abutting and extending along the front
property line. This definition shall apply to all lots, including, but not
limited to, odd-shaped lots, triangular lots and lots having curved or
irregular front lines.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width measured at right angles to the lot
depth.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be accepted by a municipality
for the maintenance of any improvements required by this act, including but not
limited to surety bonds, letters of credit and cash, as more specifically
described in § 156.031 below.
   MASSAGE PARLORS/THERAPY. Any use that is described as providing any type of
therapy or related service regarding health or well-being which requires
physical contact provided the practitioner has state licensure or other
generally recognized specialized education or training.
   MINIMUM TRACT SIZE. The minimum amount of the gross acreage of the entire
tract prior to any subdivision or development.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area, dimension or location of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of a zoning ordinance, but
fails to conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is
located by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which in its design or location upon a
lot does not conform to the regulations of Title 15 for the district in which
it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Use of a building or of land that does not conform to the
regulations of Chapter 152 for the zoning district in which it is situated.
   NURSING HOME. A facility providing nursing care to sick, invalid, infirm,
disabled or convalescent persons in addition to lodging and board or health-
related service, or any combination of the foregoing.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map adopted by ordinance pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-32.
   OPEN FENCE. Any fence or barrier that is not more than 75% solid. Examples
of such fencing would be, but shall not be limited to, wire, chain-link,
picket, post-and-rail, staggered board-on-board, louvered or a similar type
fence.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space; provided that such areas may be
improved with only those buildings, structures, streets, off street parking,
stormwater management facilities and other improvements that are designed to be
incidental to the natural openness of the land.
   PARKING SPACE. That area required for the parking or storage of one
automobile.
   PASSIVE OPEN SPACE or PASSIVE RECREATION AREAS. An unimproved area of land
which may include water set aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for
public or private use and enjoyment which utilizes and depends on the natural
environment and requires no significant modifications of that environment other
than to provide access. It permits such low density uses as hiking, fishing,
canoeing, nature study, horseback riding, and bicycling. PASSIVE OPEN SPACE
typically includes wooded areas, streams, lakes, and other varieties of natural
vegetative areas. For the purpose of this definition, detention and retention
basins represent a developed use of the land and are not considered PASSIVE
OPEN SPACE.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that permits a significant portion of surface
water to be absorbed.
   PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOP- MENT. Two or more buildings containing uses
permitted within the zoning district located on one or more lots designed as a
planned development of related structures and uses including the provision of
common access and drives, shared parking, unified architectural and building
scheme, unified signage,
a coordinated storm drainage and open space layout on an area of at least five
acres in size.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Unit development, planned unit residential development,
residential cluster, planned commercial development or planned industrial
development.
   PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. An area with a specified minimum
contiguous or non-contiguous acreage of five acres or more to be developed as a
single entity according to a plan containing one or more residential clusters,
which may include appropriate commercial, or public or quasi-public uses all
primarily for the benefit of the residential development.
   PROFESSIONAL. Any person or entity whose principals are required to be
licensed by New Jersey Law and who supply legal representation, engineering
services, planning services expert testimony or written reports in support of
an application. Professionals shall include both any individuals supplying the
representation, testimonies or reports and the firms or entities in which such
individuals practice.
   PUBLIC AREAS.
      (1)   Public parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other recreational
areas;
      (2)   Other public open spaces;
      (3)   Scenic and historic sites; and
      (4)   Sites for schools and other public buildings and structures.
   REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER. A unified development of not less than 50 stores,
shops or other commercial establishments, together with areas for internal
circulation, parking and other accessory uses consisting of one or more lots
under the same or separate ownership, and having therein a building or group of
buildings containing not less than 600,000 square feet of net floor area.
   RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER. A contiguous or non-contiguous area to be developed as
a single entity according to a plan containing residential housing units which
have a common or public open space area as an appurtenance.
   RETENTION BASIN. A man- made or natural storm water management collector
facility designed to collect surface and subsurface water and to retain some or
all water that drains into it.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE LOTS. A lot which fronts upon two parallel streets, and is
not accessible from one of the parallel streets.
   REVIEWING BOARD. The Planning Board, Board of Adjustment, Township Committee
or other municipal agency or body which, pursuant to the Municipal Land Use Law
and the Township Ordinance, has jurisdiction over the particular application.
   REVIEWING BOARD ENGINEER. The professional engineer retained or hired by the
Reviewing Board to advise such Reviewing Board as to the engineering issues
applicable to particular applications before it.
   SELF SERVICE STORAGE. A warehouse type structure containing relatively small
storage spaces usually of varying sizes which are leased or rented
individually. Individuals are typically permitted to access their storage
spaces directly without appointment during designated business hours. Also
known as mini-warehouses.
   SENIOR CITIZEN. A person 55 years of age or older. A SENIOR CITIZEN will not
lose his/her status as a SENIOR CITIZEN if the spouse or immediate member of
the family (other than a child under the age of 18 years) of a SENIOR CITIZEN,
a live-in domestic, companion or nurse, regardless of his/her age, is a
permanent resident living with such SENIOR CITIZEN.
   SETBACK LINE. A line within any lot, usually marking the limits of a
required yard space, parallel to any property line between which line and the
property line no building, structure or use or portion thereof may be erected,
except as provided in Title 15.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of retail stores, businesses, and/or service
establishments which are planned, constructed and managed as a total entity.
Customer and employee parking are provided on-site.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract
attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product,
service, event or location by any means, including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors or illumination or projected images. "Signs"
do not include the flag or emblem of any nation, organization of nations, state
or city or any political subdivision thereof or any fraternal, religious or
civic organizations; merchandise, prices, pictures or models of products or
services incorporated in an indoor window display; works of art which in no way
identify a product; or scoreboards located on athletic fields. Additional
definitions relating to signs are set forth in § 154.003 below.
   SITE PLAN, MAJOR. Any site plan not classified as a Minor Site Plan.
   SITE PLAN, MINOR. A site plan of one or more lots which include the
following:
      (1)   Does not propose the new construction or addition to any building
or structure greater than 5,000 gross square feet;
      (2)   Does not disturb more than 10,000 gross square feet of land area;
      (3)   Requires 15 or fewer off-street parking spaces;
      (4)   Is not a planned development, as defined by N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq.;
      (5)   Does not involve the extension of any new street or off-tract
improvement; and
      (6)   Contains information sufficient to make an informed judgment as to
whether the requirements established by Title 15 for the approval of a minor
site plan have been met.
   SKILLED CARE NURSING UNIT. A nursing bed or individual room which provides
board, shelter and 24 hour skilled nursing and medical care to chronic or
convalescent patients. Skilled Care Nursing Units shall be in a facility that
may include accessory uses including dining rooms, bathing areas, common areas,
offices, clinics, therapy areas, medical facilities and other space necessary
to provide the above services.
   SOLID FENCE. Any fence that is a solid, close-boarded-type fence.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. No STORY shall
be deemed to be a first story if its floor level is more than six feet above
the level from which the height of the building is measured. A mezzanine floor
shall be counted as
a STORY if it covers over 1/3 the area of the floor next below it. For the
purposes of this chapter, a split level shall be considered a one-story
structure.
   STORY, HALF. A story any two exterior sides of which meet a sloping roof not
more than two feet above the floor of such story, or that portion of any
structure herein defined as a basement.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare not less than 30 feet in width if
in existence prior to the  passage of this chapter, nor less than 50 feet in
width if established since the date of passage of this chapter, which affords
the principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place,
way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road or any other thoroughfare, except an
alley. In apartment, townhouse, commercial or limited industrial developments,
within a Township Center Zone, the curb- to-curb width of an internal street
used for ingress and egress to and from and circulation within such
developments or related parking areas may be less than 50 feet but not less
than 20 feet.
   STREET LINE. The dividing line between the lot and the street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or in the utility system or
mechanical equipment of a structure which materially alters its usability,
capacity or function.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, assembled or erected, the use of which
requires location on the ground or attachment to something having location on
or in the ground and shall include fences which are more than fifty-percent
solid, tanks, towers, advertising devices, bins, tents, lunch wagons, trailers,
dining cars, camp cars or similar structures on wheels or other supports used
for business or living purposes. The word STRUCTURE shall not apply to service
utilities entirely below the ground.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of an existing conforming lot for the
creation of not more than four lots, one of which includes the remainder of the
original lot, created over a total period of five years; provided that such
subdivision does not involve (1) a planned development, (2) any new street or
(3) the extension of any off- tract improvement, the cost of which is to be
prorated pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-42.
   SUBSTANTIVE CERTIFICATION. A determination by COAH approving a
municipality's housing element and fair share plan in accordance with the
provisions of the Fair Housing Act and the rules and criteria as set forth
herein. A grant of substantive certification shall be valid for a period of six
years in accordance with the terms and conditions therein.
   SWIMMING POOL. A water- filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of 24 or more inches or having a surface area greater
than 250 square feet, except where such pools are permanently equipped with a
water recirculating system or involve structural materials. Swimming pool shall
include the terms “hot tub” and “spa”.
   TOWNHOUSE or TOWNHOME. One of a group of two or more attached dwelling units
divided from each other by vertical walls and each having separate front and
rear or front and side entrances from the outside.
   TOWNSHIP ENGINEER. The Township official appointed by the Township Committee
pursuant to §§
30.095 and
30.096 of the Township Code. This term shall include any licensed professional
engineer in the State of New Jersey appointed as an engineer to any board or
commission within the Township of Voorhees.
   ULDO. The Voorhees Township Unified Land Development Ordinance, codified as
Title 15 of the Voorhees Township Code.
   UNITS. The term UNIT shall mean the following:
      (1)   For single family detached or attached units – one housekeeping
unit equals one unit.
      (2)   For condominiums, cooperatives and apartments – one housekeeping
unit equals one unit.
      (3)   Assisted living facilities – one housekeeping unit equals one unit.
      (4)   Skilled care nursing facilities and nursing homes – one bed equals
one unit.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged
or intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   WETLANDS. Those areas meeting the definition of wetlands under N.J.A.C. 5:1-
1 et seq. and enforced by the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection.
   YARD. An open space, as may be required by Title 15, located on the same lot
with a building or a group of buildings, which open space lies between the
principal building or group of buildings and the nearest lot line and is
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward except as herein permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front property line of the lot and the front yard building or
parking setback line. The depth of the front yard shall be measured at right
angles to the front property line of the lot. Properties having more than one
frontage shall have a primary front yard as well as a non-primary front yard.
The primary front yard is determined by the location of the front entrance to
the primary structure.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear property line of the lot and the rear yard building or parking
setback line. The depth of a rear yard shall be measured at right angles to the
rear property line of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space between the side property line of the
lot and the side yard building or parking setback line and extending from the
front yard to the rear yard, or in the absence of either of such yards, to the
front or rear property lines as the case may be. The width of a side yard shall
be measured at right angles to the side property line of the lot.
   ZONING BOARD. The Zoning Board of Adjustment as established under the ULDO.
   ZONING OFFICER. The ZONING OFFICER shall be the Township Official appointed
by the Township Committee for the purpose of administering Title 15 and all
other related ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 946-99; Am. Ord. 956-99, passed 11-8-99;
Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 90-
06, passed 7-24-06; Am. Ord. 182-11, passed 3-28-11; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-
11-15; Am. Ord. 386-21, passed 8-9-21; Am. Ord. 448-24, passed 3-25-24)
§ 150.11 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Residential. No detached or attached temporary structures shall be
permitted except in the rear yard, subject to all the requirements of the zone
and other applicable regulations of the ULDO.
   (B)   Non-residential. Any tent, gazebo, shelter or display on any land
shall require approval of the original approving Board except where the
temporary structure shall be erected for a period not to exceed 48 hours for
which only a zoning permit shall be necessary.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 90-06, passed 7-24-06)
§ 150.12 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Zoning Map adopted on April 12, 1999 as Ordinance No. 919-99, and
any and all amendments thereto adopted from time to time by the Township
Committee as required by law, is hereby incorporated in, and made a part of
this Unified Land Development Ordinance (ULDO), as if the same were fully set
forth herein. In the event of any conflict between this ULDO and the Zoning Map
or between the Zoning Map and any ordinance duly adopted as required by law
after the effective date of this ULDO, the ULDO or such ordinance, as the case
may be, shall govern and control. When an uncertainty exists as to the
boundaries of any of the zoning districts designated on the Zoning Map, the
following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Zone boundary lines are intended to follow the centerline of street
or the lot or property lines or natural lines such as watercourses as theyexist
on plats of record unless such district boundaries are fixed by dimensions on
the zoning map or by description.
      (2)   Where such boundaries are fixed by dimensions and where they
approximately follow lot lines, and where they are not more than ten feet
distant therefrom, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries
unless shown otherwise.
   (B)   Modifications of front, rear and side yard setbacks.
      (1)   Any front, rear or side yard setback area shall be unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except for the ordinary projection of
sills, belt courses, chimneys, flues, buttresses, eaves or other incidental
projections, provided that no such projection extends more than 24 inches into
a required yard or as otherwise provided for in
Chapter 152, except as specifically approved by the reviewing board pursuant to
Title 15; in no event shall grading, construction or alteration of a lot or
lots be permitted within five feet of a side or rear property line.
      (2)   For residential structures existing prior to the effective date of
this ULDO:
         (a)   An unroofed entrance structure, whether made of wood, masonry or
some other material permitted under the Township Building Code and regulations,
lying next to or in contact with any other structure on the property, which
does not exceed the height of the first or main floor elevation, shall be
permitted to extend into the side and/or rear yard setback areas of the
property; provided, however, that the total area of such entrance structure
shall not exceed 50 square feet for side yard structures and 150 square feet
for rear yard structures, and that portion of such structure which encroaches
into the relevant setback area(s) shall not exceed 25% of the relevant setback
area(s).
         (b)   Any unroofed entrance structure which was constructed prior to
the effective date of this ULDO which exceeds the limitations of this section
in any area of a front, rear or side yard may be rebuilt or reconstructed with
substantially the same materials as the original construction at the same
location and of the same size as the original structure but shall not exceed
200 square feet in total area, notwithstanding that such existing structure
does not conform to the standards established by § 150.12(B)(2)(a) above.
Wooden landings or decking cannot be substituted for concrete or masonry
entrance structures.
         (c)   This provision shall not apply and may not be used if the
existing or proposed unroofed entrance structure exceeds an overall size of 400
square feet.
      (3)   All new residential structures, the building permit for which is
issued after the effective date of this ULDO, must comply in all respects with
the applicable front, rear and side yard setback requirements.
      (4)   Whenever specifically indicated on the zoning map by the use of
symbols, figures or other suitable indications, setback lines on major highways
or on major running streams or bodies of water are herewith established. Such
setback lines shall mark that location closest to the highway, stream or body
of water at which any structure may be erected, regardless of other regulations
in
Chapter 152 or other ordinances governing front, side or rear yards; provided,
however, that this shall not apply to structures necessary for access and
safety, such as bridges, culverts or protective walls and fences. Unless
otherwise specified and indicated on the zoning map, no structure shall be
erected on land which is less than four feet above the normal or average level
of any adjacent running stream, lake or body of water, including tidewaters,
nor closer than 50 feet to such stream, lake or body of water, whichever
conditions shall impose the greater requirements. Such distance shall be
measured to the intersection of the finished grade with the structure at the
lowest elevation of such grade. In the case of tide-waters, no structure shall
be erected on land which is less than four feet above mean high water.
      (5)   All lots established by subdivision or development plans when
filed, must clearly delineate all building and/or structure setback lines
measured from the property line.
      (6)   Temporary handicap access structures and ramps shall be governed by
the following:
         (a)   Temporary handicap access structures and ramps may be installed
on a residential property, within the front or side yard setback areas, for a
period not to exceed six months with verification of the need for the access
from a licensed physician. The zoning permit may be extended for an additional
six months if the need is justified to the satisfaction of the Zoning Officer.
         (b)   Any extension of time beyond the maximum of one year limit
provided by this section shall require the submission of an application to the
reviewing board for an approval of a variance to permit the access structure
and ramp to remain.
         (c)   Any temporary access structure or ramp installed or constructed
under the special provisions of this section must be removed when the ownership
or tenancy of the property changes.
         (d)   All application fees, variance fees, escrows and fees for
property owner lists shall be waived in connection with applications made by
the owner, or occupant (with consent of the owner) of residential property to
install handicapped ramps and other ADA accessibility improvements to the
applicant's property to make the property more accessible for an occupant of
the property who has a physical handicap.
      (7)   Wherever a lake- fronting residential dwelling exists, wooden
waterfront structure (platform/deck) may be constructed closer than restricted
by
Chapter 152, provided that the proposed plans meet the following conditions:
         (a)   The structure does not exceed 250 square feet in size.
         (b)   The dimensions of the structure shall not extend farther into
the water body than 12 feet from the lake frontage (edge of water).
         (c)   The structure shall not be raised more than 30 inches above the
natural ground level.
         (d)   Any connecting walkways shall not exceed four feet in width from
any other structures permitted in the normal building envelope required
pursuant to the applicable provisions of
Chapter 152.
         (e)   The proposed structure has received an approval from the State
Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Coastal Resources and/or
the Army Corps of Engineers if the proposed structure is to be located in a
stream encroachment, floodplain or wetland designated area as outlined in the
Freshwater Wetlands Protection Act Rules, Operative Date July 1, 1988 (N.J.A.C.
7:7A).
      (8)   On all corner lots the depth of all yards abutting on streets shall
not be less than the minimum front yard depth required on an adjoining interior
lot fronting on such street. No corner lot setback shall in any case be less
than 20 feet, except that the provisions of this section shall not apply so as
to reduce the buildable width to less than 50% of any lot that is less than 100
feet in width. Corner lots having frontages of greater than 150 feet on both
intersecting streets shall observe the same requirements for front yards on
both streets as apply to adjoining interior lots fronting on such streets.
   (C)   Permitted modification of height limitations.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the erection above the
building height limit of a parapet wall or cornice extending above such height
limit not more than four feet.
      (2)   The height limitations of
Chapter 152 shall not apply to church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes not used
for human occupancy, nor to chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water tanks,
bulkheads, and necessary mechanical appurtenances usually carried above the
roof level or to noncommercial radio and television antennas, except where in
the opinion of the reviewing board engineer such may be deemed to interfere
with aerial navigation or constitute a fire hazard. Such features, however,
shall not exceed in total coverage 20% of the total roof area and shall not
exceed a reasonable height to be determined by the reviewing board engineer.
   (D)   Required street frontage.
      (1)   Every dwelling structure shall be built upon a lot with frontage
upon a fully improved public street.
      (2)   The requirement and extent of full improvements of a public street
shall be determined by the Township Engineer based on site conditions relating
to drainage and public safety.
      (3)   The Township Committee shall have the final determination to
require or waive full improvements to any public street.
   (E)   Corner lot restrictions. At the intersection or interception of two
streets, no hedge, landscape planting, fence or wall higher than three feet
above curb level nor any obstruction to vision other than a post or tree not
exceeding one square foot in area in the cross section shall be permitted on
any lot within the triangular area formed by two intersecting street lines
bounding the lot or the projection of such lines and by a line connecting a
point on each street line located 25 feet from the intersection of the street
lines. Similarly, there shall be no obstruction to vision as stated herein with
respect to rights-of-way between sidewalk area and curbing or front property
lines, curbing or the edge of paving.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 28-00, passed 10-10-00; Am. Ord. 85-06,
passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 150.13 ACCESSORY USES/STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Area and bulk standards. Unless elsewhere specified to the contrary,
accessory buildings and uses in the RR - Rural Residential and MDR - Medium
Residential Zones, and for residential uses in the TC - Township Center and GB2
- General Business 2 Zones, shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses may occupy not more than 50% of the
rear yard area.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed 15 feet in
height.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses shall be included in computing the
maximum percentage of lot coverage, impervious coverage or other bulk
standards.
      (4)   In the case of a corner lot abutting two or more streets, accessory
buildings or uses shall not be located nearer the street line of the street
forming the side yard boundary than the required front yard setback on such
street.
      (5)   A garage or carport attached to any side of the dwelling and
constructed as a part of such dwelling shall be considered as a part of the
dwelling and not as an accessory building and shall meet all requirements for
front, side or rear yard setbacks and heights of structures for the primary
use.
      (6)   The minimum rear yard setback for accessory buildings and uses
shall be ten feet unless otherwise provided in the terms of the resolution
granting a bulk variance.
      (7)   Storage sheds shall conform to the following regulations:
         (a)   Sheds shall be permitted only in rear yards or the side yards of
corner lots which abut the rear of the building.
 
         (b)   Sheds with a maximum floor area of 100 square feet and a maximum
height of nine feet at the roof peak from ground level shall be a minimum of
five feet from any property line.
         (c)   Sheds with a maximum floor area of 150 square feet and a maximum
height of 11 feet at the roof peak from ground level shall be a minimum of ten
feet from any property line.
         (d)   Sheds larger than 150 square feet in floor area or greater than
11 feet at the roof peak from ground level in height shall otherwise conform to
the requirements for primary structures in the zone in which the shed is
located.
         (e)   The maximum number of sheds permitted is two and the total floor
area of all sheds shall not exceed 200 square feet.
      (8)   Masonry columns/piers shall conform to the following regulations:
         (a)   Masonry columns/piers shall be permitted in the front-yard area
to mark driveway and walkway egress to the property.
         (b)   The maximum number of masonry columns/piers shall be four.
         (c)   The maximum height of any masonry column/pier shall not exceed
four feet.
         (d)   Masonry columns/piers may be lighted, provided that the lighting
is to be included in the maximum height measurement.
         (e)   The minimum front yard and/or side yard setback is five feet.
      (9)   Ground mounted equipment:
         (a)   In any non-residential zone, ground-mounted structures such as
mechanical heating and ventilating equipment, air-conditioning units,
transformer boxes, emergency generators, or any other structure may not be
located in the front yard. Ground-mounted equipment may only be placed in the
side and rear yards and must be screened by an enclosure approved by the
Municipal Zoning Officer.
         (b)   In any single-family residential zone or any property used for
single-family residential purposes, ground-mounted generators for emergency use
when the municipal power grid is off-line are permitted to be used when
installed and used in accordance with the following regulations:
            1.    Ground-mounted generators permitted in this section must be
permanent and incidental to the residential use and meet the following
technical requirements:
               A.    Ground-mounted generators must be located so as to
minimize noise and visual impact on adjacent properties with use of appropriate
sound attenuated enclosures, screening, and landscaping as approved by the
Municipal Zoning Officer.
               B.    Ground-mounted generators may not be located in the front
or side yard and may only be placed in the rear yard with a minimum setback of
15 feet from the rear and side property lines.
               C.    Generator operating sound output may not exceed Chapter
95: Noise of the Township Code as measured from the closest property line.
               D.    Ground-mounted generators may be operated only during
power loss or for maintenance operation. Maintenance operation shall only occur
between the hours of 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and in
accordance with manufacturing specifications.
               E.    Ground-mounted generators must be in compliance with all
federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
            2.   Prior to the installation and/or use of any ground-mounted
generator, the property owner and/or operator thereof must obtain all required
zoning and construction permits.
         (c)   In townhouse/condominium or multi-family residential areas under
condominium ownership, application must be made to the Planning or Zoning Board
by the homeowner's association for placement of any new mechanical devices,
such as emergency generators.
   (B)   Single-family attached and townhouse developments. Additions and
accessory uses for single-family attached and townhouse developments shall
conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   No habitable or elevated additions to the primary structure shall
be permitted unless they can be accommodated within the footprint depicted in
the preliminary or final plans.
      (2)   Accessory uses shall be limited to the following:
         (a)   Fences in accordance with § 150.14.
         (b)   Sheds with a maximum size of 100 square feet, maximum height of
eight feet and located only in accordance with § 150.13(A)(7)(a) and (b).
         (c)   Unroofed ground-level decks and patios not exceeding 250 square
feet in area with minimum side yard setbacks of ten feet and minimum rear yard
setback of 20 feet; provided that on properties with a common wall, the minimum
side yard setback shall be zero feet from the common wall.
         (d)   Play equipment.
         (e)   Above ground pools and associated equipment in the CR - Cluster
Residential Zone shall be subject to the side yard and rear yard setbacks set
forth in § 150.13(B)(2)(c). Additionally, above ground pools and associated
equipment shall be a minimum of five feet from any common wall line.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other regulations to the contrary, the following
regulations shall apply in all residential zones:
      (1)   The installation of any recreational structure within the public
right-of-way is prohibited.
      (2)   The installation of any structure which alters the flow or quantity
of storm water shall require a grading plan to be submitted prior to issuance
of a zoning permit.
      (3)   No structure designed or approved as temporary shall be utilized
beyond 60 days. No such structure may become permanent without a new
application and review.
(Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15; Am. Ord. 448-24, passed 3-25-24)
§ 150.14 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Zoning permit and certificate of conformance. A zoning permit and
certificate of conformance shall be required in all zones for construction,
erection and/or installation of each and every fence governed by this chapter.
      (2)   Construction permit. A construction permit is required for all pool
barriers. Fences and gates must comply with the state’s current Uniform
Construction Code requirements.
      (3)   Plan required. A plot plan showing the lot size, location of all
buildings, structures, proposed fences and gates and required landscaping shall
be
provided to the Zoning Officer with all applications for a zoning permit for
any fence.
   (B)   Bulk requirements. For the purpose of this chapter, the REAR YARD
shall be considered to be an open space extending across the full width of the
lot between the principal building and the rear lot line and the point of the
rear elevation closest to the side lot lines. For the purpose of this section,
DETACHED GARAGES shall not be considered part of the principal building.
      (1)   Height limitations.
         (a)   Except as provided for corner lots under §
150.12(E), fences may be erected, altered or reconstructed to a height not to
exceed six feet when sited in the following manner:
            1.   From the front corners of any building to the side property
lines and back toward the rear property line as well as along the rear property
line so as to enclose the side and rear yards, or a desired portion thereof.
            2.   At a minimum setback of ten feet from any property line to
enclose a property used for agricultural use, for containment of livestock for
containment of livestock or in connection with an outdoor recreation facility.
            3.   All fencing shall be installed within the boundary lines of
the subject property.
         (b)   Open or solid fences may be erected, altered or reconstructed to
a height not to exceed six feet along any rear or side property line of a
single-family residential zone that abuts a non-single-family residential zone,
provided that such fence does not extend into any front yard setback area.
         (c)   Open wire fences may be erected, altered, or reconstructed to a
height not to exceed ten feet when located at the accessory setback lines in
any rear yard, in conjunction with the installation of a tennis court,
basketball court, or other sport court.
      (2)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Except as permitted above, no fence shall be erected, altered,
or reconstructed forward of any building(s) in the primary front yard or within
the required primary front yard setback applicable to such property, whichever
is greater. For purposes of this section, the front yard setback shall be
measured from the front property line as indicated on the survey.
         (b)   All new and replacement fences shall conform with the setback
requirements applicable to the lot at the time the zoning permit is issued.
         (c)   For the purposes of the construction, erection, and/or location
of a fence on lots that have frontage on more than one street, the front yard
setback requirement applicable in the subject zoning district is the required
setback on each non-primary front yard.
         (d)   It shall be prohibited for a fence or fencing to be constructed,
erected and/or located on lots where there are easements in multi-family units
that have access to rear yards on the interior lots so as to prevent access to
the interior property rear yards.
         (e)   At or near an intersection of two or more streets, no fence
shall be permitted to obstruct the view of motorists traveling on either
intersecting street.
         (f)   On reverse frontage lots, rear setback of ten feet must be
provided.
         (g)   Temporary fencing for swimming pools. The person, firm, or
corporation on whose property the swimming pool is to be constructed must erect
a temporary fence of durable material to effectively prevent unauthorized
access to the construction area. The temporary fencing must comply with all
Uniform Construction Code requirements and shall remain until replaced by a
required permanent fence.
         (h)    Notwithstanding any provision in this division (B)(2), a fence
permitted by this section may be extended from the rear corner of the dwelling
in order to enclose an existing side entry doorway within the fence but only
for the purpose of and only to the extent necessary to enclose such doorway
within such fence, and in no event may such fence be established more than 15
feet from the rear corner of the dwelling.
      (3)   Other requirements.
         (a)   All fences shall be installed so that rails and posts shall be
facing the inside of the owner's property.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the erection of an open-
wire fence not exceeding eight feet above ground level anywhere within a public
park, public playground or school premises.
         (c)   The aforesaid restrictions may be waived or modified so as to
allow the erection, alteration or reconstruction of fences used in connection
with farm operations, agricultural uses, livestock containment or in connection
with outdoor recreational facilities, except insofar as such fences might
affect the public safety.
         (d)   The following fences and fencing materials, including materials
placed and/or connected to the top of a permitted fence, are specifically
prohibited: barbed-wire, razor wire and/or other spiked fencing materials,
collapsible, canvas, cloth or electrically charged fences or structures.
      (e)   Required landscaping.
            1.    Reverse-fronting lots. On all reverse-fronting lots with
chain-link fencing in the rear yard, a single row of 100% evergreen plantings
spaced eight feet apart, center to center at a minimum height of four feet, as
measured from grade level at the time of planting shall be planted between the
fence and the adjoining rear street adjacent to such fence. Such trees shall be
placed within the ten feet of setback required under division (B)(2)(f) above.
         (f)   All fencing shall be installed within the boundary lines of the
subject property.
   (C)   Requirements applicable to non-residential fences. The following
requirements shall apply to all properties in any non-residential zoning
district and to all properties in the CR - Cluster Residential, R-10 -
Residence 10, SH - Senior Housing, TC - Township Center and GB-2 - General
Business 2 Zones, except for properties which contain a single family detached
or a single family attached fee simple dwelling.
      (1)   Open and solid fences shall only be installed in accordance with a
valid subdivision or site plan approval granted by the reviewing board.
      (2)   No fence may be erected, altered or reconstructed forward of any
building in the front yard.
      (3)   All fences shall be set back to the building setback line unless
otherwise indicated on a final subdivision or site plan approved by the
reviewing board.
   (D)   Notice of violations.
      (1)   If the Zoning Officer, upon inspection, determines that any fence
or portion of any fence is not being maintained in a safe, sound or upright
condition, the Zoning Officer shall notify the owner of such fence in writing
of his findings and order such
fence or portion of such fence repaired or removed within ten days of the date
of the written notice.
      (2)   If any person installs any fence on any property within the
Township in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Officer shall notify the
owner of such property in writing of the alleged violation and order that the
owner either remove the fence, correct the violation and/or obtain the required
permits and/or approvals within 30 days of the date of such written notice.
(Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15; Am. Ord. 391-21, passed 10-12-21; Am. Ord. 448-
24, passed 3-25-24)
§ 150.15 SIGN AND FLAGPOLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following terms, when used in this Title 15 as they
relate to signs, shall have the following meaning:
      SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract
attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product,
service, event or location by any means, including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors or illumination or projected images. SIGNS
do not include the flag or emblem of any nation, organization of nations, state
or city or any political subdivision thereof or any fraternal, religious or
civic organizations; merchandise, prices, pictures or models of products or
services incorporated in an indoor window display; works of art which in no
way identify a product; or scoreboards located on athletic fields. As they
relate to signs, the following words or clauses shall have the following
meanings:
         ATTACHED SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained on a
building with the principal support of said sign being the building, including
specifically the painting of signs or displays on the exterior surface of a
building. ATTACHED SIGNS shall be not more than ten inches at any point of the
sign from the building to which it is attached.
         AWNING OR CANOPY SIGN. Any sign located on or affixed to an awning or
canopy.
         BILLBOARDS. Any structure or portion thereof on which lettered or
pictorial matter is displayed for advertising purposes, which structure is
located on a site other than the site to which the advertising relates.
         BLADE SIGN. A business identification sign which extends perpendicular
from the building to which it is attached.
         BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign attached to the building
identified by the sign and existing for the purpose of assisting in the
location and identification of such building.
         BUILDING NUMBER SIGN. A sign containing only the name, number or
address of a building.
         CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof that allows for the
message portion of the sign to be changed.
         DIGITAL CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A changeable copy sign with a display or
message composed of a series of lights that may be changed through electronic
means. For purposes of this chapter, DIGITAL CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN shall
include, but not be limited to, signs commonly referred to as “LED,” “plasma,”
or “electronic” signs.
         DEVELOPMENT SIGNS. A sign designating the name of a subdivision of
residential homes, whether single-family or multi-family, attached or detached
or an apartment complex.
         ERECT. To build, construct, attach, place, suspend or affix, and shall
also include the painting of wall signs and the painting of signs or displays
on the exterior surface of the building, structure or material surface.
         EXTERNALLY LIGHTED. Any sign whose sole source of artificial
illumination is outside the display portion of the sign.
         FACADE. The face of a building that is considered to be the
architectural front, and usually given special architectural treatment. The
facade does not include mansard or other roof designs.
         FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign not attached to a building, erected,
constructed or maintained on a post or pole, or other bracing or supporting
device, being to support the sign.
         FUNCTIONAL SIGNS. Directional, information or public service signs,
such as signs advertising locations of rest rooms, telephones or similar
facilities of public convenience, including entry and exit signs from parking
areas. Functional signs shall not include any name, business, logo, or message
other than the directional or informational material as above.
         INTERNALLY LIGHTED. Any sign whose sole source of artificial
illumination is contained within the display portion of the sign.
         MANSARD ROOF. A hipped roof usually having a double slope or compound
curve, the lower slope being much steeper than the upper slope.
         MOBILE SIGN. Any sign which is not permanently attached to a building
or not placed in the ground in such a fashion as to be permanent in a manner
conforming to the Uniform Construction Code  or which is located or attached to
a trailer, is on wheels or another similar attachment such that the sign may be
moved from place to place, either within the lot or to another location.
         MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY AND TENANCY SIGN. A single sign relating to a use
or facility, such as a shopping center, industrial park or office complex,
where there is more than one occupancy and/or tenancy of uses, where said
multiple occupancy and tenancy use a common parking facility and/or a common
private drive or roadway and where the names and professions or business names
of the various tenants and/or occupants are displayed.
         PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including but
not limited to signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich-board signs; balloons or other
inflatable objects used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs
attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-
way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the
business.
         POLITICAL SIGN. A sign expressing support for or opposition to a
candidate for political office or an issue specific to a current election or
referendum and shall include such political paraphernalia as placards, posters,
bumper stickers (when not affixed to a moving object or vehicle), banners or
the like.
         OFF-SITE SIGN. Any sign located on a lot other than the lot occupied
by the use, structure, building or event that the sign identifies.
         OFFICIAL SIGN. Any sign, symbol or device, erected, constructed or
maintained by the federal, state, county or local government, or any agency
thereof, for the purpose of informing or guiding the pubic or for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
         REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign of an owner of real property or of a licensed
real estate broker designating a property “for sale” or “for lease”.
         ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained upon, over or
in front of the roof of any building.
         SECONDARY BLADE SIGN. Small signs installed under a soffit or canopy
or attached to the building facade to identity a store, office or similar use.
         SIGN HEIGHT. In the case of a freestanding sign, the height of the
sign will be computed from grade level to the greatest height at any one point
in the sign. In case of an attached sign, no sign can be higher than the level
of a second floor windowsill in a two-or-more story building, nor can it be
higher than the lowest point of the roof line in a single-story building.
         TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not permanently attached to a building
structure or permanently affixed to a freestanding structure and which may be
erected for a limited period of time.
         TEMPORARY EXTERIOR ADVERTISING SIGN. A temporary sandwich-board type
sign located on the ground or a sign mounted on an easel advertising or
describing retail goods or services provided or made available on the premises.
         VEHICULAR SIGN. Any sign permanently or temporarily attached to a non-
operating vehicle. Such a vehicle shall include, but is not limited to, a car,
truck, van or a bus.
         WARNING SIGN. A sign indicating no trespassing or no fishing and/or
hunting and an existing danger where a warning is necessary.
         WINDOW SIGN. Any sign erected, constructed or maintained in or on a
window of a building, visible from outside the building, whether illuminated or
non-illuminated.
   (B)   Signs may only be erected, installed, altered, maintained, used,
removed or moved if done in compliance with these regulations.
   (C)   Permitted purpose of signs.
      (1)   Only signs which identify an establishment, enterprise or business
are permitted.
         (a)   Signs are not permitted for purposes of advertising the business
of the property user.
         (b)   Signs may only state the name of the establishment, enterprise
or business and give a brief description of the principal goods or services
offered.
      (2)   The following are not considered signs for purposes of these
regulations:
         (a)   Nameplate and address in residential zone.
         (b)   Prospective sale or rental signs.
         (c)   Official government agency signs.
         (d)   Signs advertising sale of products grown on the premises.
         (e)   Signs prohibiting or controlling trespassing, hunting and/or
fishing and warning signs.
   (D)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   A zoning permit must be obtained prior to the erection,
installation, alteration or relocation of any sign, except those signs
permitted under division (F) below.
      (2)   A building permit must be obtained prior to the erection,
installation, alteration or relocation of any sign except as follows:
         (a)    Non-illuminated functional/ direction signs.
         (b)   A change in the copy of an approved sign.
      (3)   A certificate of conformance must be obtained after erection,
installation, alteration or relocation of any sign to confirm that the property
and the sign conform to and with the requirements of this chapter and this
section.
   (E)   Regulations applicable to all signs in all zoning districts.
      (1)   There shall be a minimal distance of 15 feet between any side
property line and the nearest portion of any freestanding sign erected under
the provisions of this chapter, and there shall be a minimum distance of 50
feet between the nearest portions of any freestanding sign and another
freestanding sign.
      (2)   No sign shall be placed in a position that will cause danger to
traffic on a street or entering a street by obscuring the view of traffic on
either street. In no case shall any sign, other than an official governmental
sign or functional/direction sign, be erected within the official right-of-way
of any street unless specifically authorized by ordinance or regulations of the
Township.
      (3)   All signs shall be permanently fixed to the ground or attached to a
building or structure in a manner conforming to the Uniform Construction Code
(N.J.A.C. 5:23) and other applicable state and Township statutes and
ordinances.
      (4)   No sign shall be erected containing information on it which states
or implies that a property may be used for any purpose not permitted in the
zoning district in which the property to which the sign relates is located.
      (5)   Except as provided in division (G)(9) of this section, banners,
spinners, flags and pennants solely for the purpose of announcing the grand
opening of a business or use on the property shall be permitted for a 30 day
period during the opening of a new business or change of ownership. Notice of
the installation of a sign permitted under this division must be provided to
the Zoning Officer not later than five days before the sign is to be erected.
      (6)    Functional/directional signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area per sign, and shall not include company logos or other advertising
information.
      (7)   Except as specifically required in any specific zoning district,
all freestanding signs other than those permitted within the right-of-way shall
be erected either with the bottom of the sign at least six feet above grade
level or shall be set back from the street right-of-way line a distance not
less than ten feet.
      (8)   The following signs shall be prohibited in all zones:
         (a)   A flashing, blinking, twinkling, animated, moving or projected
sign of any type or a sign which presents an illusion of movement. This
prohibition shall not apply to static time and temperature displays.
         (b)   Any sign erected, constructed or maintained so as to obstruct
any fire escape, window, door or opening used as a means of egress or ingress.
         (c)   Any sign whose form, character or shape may confuse or
dangerously distract the attention of the operator of a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Any advertisement or message which uses a series of two or more
signs or units placed in a line parallel to the highway or in a similar
fashion, all carrying a single advertising message, part of which is contained
on each sign.
         (e)   Any freestanding sign exceeding 20 feet in height or exceeding
20 feet above grade level.
         (f)   Off-site signs, including commercial billboards; except that
billboards may be permitted on Route 73 subject to the following:
            1.    Compliance with all state permitting and regulations;
            2.   All lighting shall be directed onto the billboard structure;
            3.   The area underneath and around the off-premises sign structure
shall include a landscaping bed containing evergreens and flowering materials;
            4.   The landscaping bed shall be continuously maintained by the
property owner;
            5.   The minimum lot size shall be one-half acres and maximum lot
size shall be three acres;
            6.   The minimum lot frontage shall be 100 feet and the maximum lot
frontage shall be 300 feet;
            7.   The sign structure shall be a minimum of 500 feet from any
residential zoning district;
            8.   It shall be the primary and only principal use on the lot;
            9.   The maximum height of the structure from grade shall be 80
feet;
            10.   The maximum size of the off-premises sign faces shall be 20
by 60 feet with a maximum area per face of 1,000 square feet;
            11.   The minimum distance between off-premises signs shall be 500
feet;
            12.   The total number of off-premises signs permitted shall be
three in addition to those existing as of the effective date of this section;
            13.   All off-premises signs shall be located on the west side of
Route 73 within the first 5,000 feet of the northern Township line;
            14.    Off-premises signs shall not resemble any traffic sign;
            15.   No off-premises signs shall be located within 300 feet of an
intersection; and
            16.   Side yard shall be 20 feet; rear yard shall be 20 feet; front
edge of the sign shall be 20 feet from the right-of-way.
         (g)   Any sign which, when applying contemporary community standards,
has a dominant theme or purpose which appeals to prurient interests.
         (h)   Mobile signs, including “A” or “T” frame signs, menu or sandwich
board signs, tethered balloons and inflatable signs, except that temporary
exterior advertising signs are permitted in accordance with the regulations in
division (G)(8) of this section.
         (i)   Vehicular signs.
         (j)   Signs bearing laudatory text or including service or product
names normally furnished by any such proprietor. Identification signs shall
allow the principal name of the establishment or proprietor and a brief
description of the principal goods or service offered.
         (k)   Signs attached to the facade of a building or structure that
extend beyond the highest point of the facade on which they are erected.
      (9)   The size of any sign shall be computed by multiplying its greatest
height by its greatest length, inclusive of supporting structures, unless such
supporting structure is a pole or other similar apparatus that allows clear
view around and under such sign. Two-sided freestanding signs containing the
same copy on both sides shall be measured by using the surface area of one side
of the sign only. Where there is different copy on each side of the sign, each
side shall be considered a separate sign.
      (10)   Individual channel letter signs illuminated by neon gas are
permitted only where illuminated signs are permitted. The envelope around the
exterior perimeter of all channel tubing shall be determined and must comply
with the size regulations applicable to such sign. Neon logo signs which may be
seen from the exterior of any establishment, enterprise or business are signs
for purpose of these sign regulations.
      (11)   When the name or other identifying information with respect to any
establishment, enterprise or business, except for the building number, street
address or building name, is located on any awning or canopy attached to the
building in which the establishment, enterprise or business is located, the
entire awning or canopy shall be considered the sign for purposes of these
regulations. The maximum permitted size of an awning or canopy sign shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   For non-illuminated canopy or awning signs, only the wording
and/or logo installed, painted or printed on such awning or canopy shall be
considered the sign.
         (b)   For illuminated canopy or awning signs, the entire canopy or
awning shall be considered the sign.
      (12)   Only roof signs meeting the definition of attached signs are
permitted. Permitted roof signs may not be erected any higher than centered on
the roof surface to which such sign is attached.
   (F)   Signs permitted in all districts without zoning permits.
      (1)   No more than one non-illuminated temporary sign indicating the
prospective or completed sale or rental of the premises upon which it is
located. This sign shall not exceed six square feet in area and four feet in
height for a residential use and shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and
six feet in height for a commercial or industrial establishment. The sign shall
be removed within seven days after consummation of a lease or sales
transaction.
      (2)   Temporary signs announcing any educational, charitable, civic,
religious or similar event, excluding temporary political signs, which shall be
governed by division (F)(6) below, for a consecutive period not to exceed 31
days before the event and seven days after the event. The size of all temporary
signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and six feet in height. The
number of temporary signs shall be limited to one sign per property and shall
contain no commercial message or logo. Temporary signs shall be made of wood or
plastic and shall not be illuminated. The person or organization erecting the
sign shall be responsible for taking the sign down within the allowed time
limit.
      (3)   Not more than two temporary ground signs advertising a subdivision
which has been approved by the Township, provided that each sign does not
exceed 32 square feet in area. In no case shall any such sign be located closer
than 25 feet to any street line. Temporary subdivision signs shall not be
permitted after residences have been erected on 75% of the lots in the
subdivision or after more than 75% of the lots have been sold by the developer.
      (4)   A sign indicating site development or construction by a builder
shall not exceed 32 square feet and shall be limited to one sign per street
frontage. The sign shall not be erected until final approvals are obtained from
the reviewing board. The sign may remain up until the project is completed.
      (5)   Signs prohibiting or otherwise controlling trespassing, fishing
and/or hunting shall be limited to one sign for each 50 feet of street
frontage. Each such sign shall not exceed one square foot in area.
      (6)   Temporary political signs shall be permitted, subject to the
following:
         (a)   Temporary political signs shall not be installed in any
municipal, county or state right-of-way, or on any Township owned property.
         (b)   Temporary signs shall be removed within 30 days of the election
date.
         (c)   Temporary political signs shall only be constructed of wood,
cardboard or other recyclable material and shall not be illuminated.
         (d)   The owner and/or tenant of the lot or any structure on the lot
and the owner, organization, tenant, candidate and/or erector of each sign
shall be held responsible for any violation of these regulations and the costs
of removal of any sign found to be in violation of this division (F)(6).
         (e)   The organization, owner, tenant and/or political candidate
owning or erecting or causing or permitting to be erected a temporary sign in
violation of this division (F)(6) who does not cause such violation to be
removed and/or corrected within 48 hours after receipt of notice, either oral
or written, of the existence of such violation shall be subject to penalties
and/or fines as provided in §
156.999. The erection, posting and/or placing of each individual sign shall
constitute a separate offense.
         (f)   If a temporary sign is erected, posted or placed in violation of
this division (F)(6) and is not removed and disposed of in accordance with this
division (F)(6), and the trash and health regulations of the Township and the
state, the Township, in addition to all other remedies provided herein and
otherwise available at law or in equity, has the right, but not the duty, to
cause such sign to be removed and disposed of, and the organization, owner,
tenant and political candidate shall be strictly liable for all costs and
expenses incurred by the Township with respect to such removal and disposal.
      (7)   One temporary sign advertising hiring of employees which shall only
be a plastic or wooded type sign, which shall not exceed eight square feet in
area and shall not be installed within any local, county or state right-of-way.
A temporary hiring sign shall be limited to a maximum time period of 30
calendar days and for no more than four time periods during any one calendar
year.
      (8)   Temporary contractor signs. Temporary contractors' advertising
signs may be installed on a residential lot under the following conditions:
         (a)   One sign may only be installed at the commencement of the
improvements, renovation or construction.
         (b)   The sign may not exceed five square feet in size.
         (c)   The sign shall be removed when the improvements, renovation or
construction is completed.
         (d)   The maximum duration of any such sign shall not exceed 30
calendar days per contractor.
         (e)   No sign is to be installed in any municipal, county or state
right-of-way.
      (9)   Temporary real estate directional signs.
         (a)   Temporary real estate directional signs shall be defined as
removable, freestanding signs, to be placed in or on the ground, not to exceed
18 inches in height, 24 inches in width and no higher than 30 inches above
existing grade and shall only indicate the location or directions to a
residential property in the township to announce an open house utilized in
connection with the marketing of that property.
         (b)   No more than one temporary directional sign shall be located on
any one lot or within 500 feet of any other temporary directional sign in any
right-of-way. The maximum number of temporary signs shall be limited to four
for any one open house.
         (c)   A temporary directional sign may only be installed during the
hours from 12:00 noon to 5:00 p.m. on the day the open house is being
conducted. All temporary signs shall be removed no later than 6:00 p.m. of the
day of the open house.
         (d)   A temporary directional sign, as defined herein, shall not
include any illumination, nor shall there be affixed thereon any balloon,
streamer or any other decorative accessory.
      (10)   Signs identifying the presence of a security system on the
property shall be limited to one sign for each premises and shall not exceed
one square foot in area.
   (G)   Signs and flag poles permitted in all districts with zoning permit.
      (1)   All signs other than signs specifically prohibited by this chapter
or signs permitted without a zoning permit pursuant to division (F) above, are
permitted, subject to divisions (G)(2) through (G)(6) of this section and
division (H) below, with a zoning permit and all applicable building permits.
      (2)   Changeable copy signs shall be permitted only as follows:
         (a)   Movie theaters.
         (b)   As permitted under division (G)(4) below.
         (c)   As a portion of the identification sign for any professional
office provided the following criteria are met:
            1.   Only on properties within the OI - Office 1, O3 - Office 3, O4
- Office Campus, ORB - Office Retail Business, B - Business, GB2 - General
Business 2, MB - Major Business, TC - Township Center and EIB Economic
Industrial Business zones and which contain a single use building.
            2.   The changeable copy portion of the sign may not exceed 75% of
the total sign area.
            3.   The changeable copy cannot be used to advertise any business
located on the property, or any products or services sold at the property or
provided on or from the property.
         (d)   Each business which has a Class C plenary retail consumption
liquor license may have, as part of its facade or as a free standing sign, a
changeable copy portion subject to the following restrictions:
            1.   No more than one sign of this type shall be permitted.
            2.   The changeable copy portion of the sign shall not exceed one-
third of the total sign area or 24 square feet, whichever is less.
            3.   The copy of such signs shall be limited to three lines
indicating entertainment or special and limited commercial or professional
events.
         (e)   In addition to the signs authorized in the zones permitting
filling stations, fuel, oil and gasoline filling stations may display one sign
for the purpose of indicating their gasoline price only. The additional price
sign shall not be attached to the building, but shall be attached to the
approved freestanding station identification sign located on the site. The size
of the price sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in area.
      (3)   Digital changeable copy signs shall be permitted in accordance with
an approved site plan as follows:
         (a)   On properties within the OI - Office 1, O3 - Office 3, O4 -
Office Campus, ORB - Office Retail Business, B - Business, GB2 - General
Business 2, MB - Major Business, TC - Township Center and EIB -Economic
Industrial Business zones and which contain a single use building.
         (b)   As permitted under division (G)(4) below.
         (c)   The LED portion of a digital changeable copy sign shall be
subject to the following conditions:
            1.   The digital changeable copy portion of the may not exceed 75%
of the total sign area.
            2.   The LED portion of a sign shall change messages at intervals
of no less than five minutes.
            3.   LED messages shall be stationary during the minimum five
minute interval. Message crawls are not permitted.
            4.   The LED portion of the sign shall only be in operation during
the hours of operation of the business, organization or facility which operates
the sign.
            5.   The LED sign may advertise only the products and services
offered by the business, organization or facility operating the sign and may
not advertise specials or sales offered by any business, organization or
facility.
            6.    Permitted messages may be displayed no more than 20 minutes
in any one hour. The balance of the LED messages shall include community
messages supplied by the Township of Voorhees and informational messages about
driver and motorist safety and the like.
         (d)   Each business which has a Class C plenary retail consumption
liquor license may have, as a free standing sign, a digital changeable copy
portion subject to the following restrictions:
            1.   No more than one sign of this type shall be permitted.
            2.   The digital changeable copy portion of the sign shall not
exceed one-third of the total sign area or 24 square feet, whichever is less.
            3.   The copy of such signs shall be limited to three lines
indicating entertainment or special and limited commercial or professional
events.
         (e)   In addition to the signs authorized in the zones permitting
filling stations, fuel, oil and gasoline filling stations may display one
digital changeable copy sign for the purpose of indicating their gasoline price
only. The additional price sign shall not be attached to the building, but
shall be attached to the approved freestanding station identification sign
located on the site. The size of the price sign shall not exceed 12 square feet
in area.
      (4)   One identification sign for churches, hospitals, schools, police,
fire, playgrounds, parks and public utility installations shall be permitted
and shall not exceed 24 square feet in area. In addition, a changeable copy
sign not exceeding 16 square feet in area and six feet in height shall also be
permitted. The changeable copy sign may be substituted with a permanent sign 16
feet in area and six feet in height to indicate charitable functions such as
but not limited to bingo.
      (5)   One sign advertising the sale of farm produce raised on the
property from which it is sold, provided that such sign shall not be greater
than 30 square feet in area.
      (6)   A sign identifying a multi-family residential development shall not
exceed 32 square feet and shall be limited to one sign per street frontage.
      (7)   Permanent signs identifying a residential subdivision shall be
permitted in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Signs may be illuminated by external low level, ground-mounted
spot lights.
         (b)   Sign, including any structure on which the sign is mounted, must
be ground-mounted and no larger than 32 square feet.
         (c)   If the sign is to be installed by the developer, it must be
shown on the final subdivision plat and located on a private lot or parcel, or
within the common areas owned and controlled by the homeowners' association
applicable to the development.
         (d)   The homeowners' association shall be solely liable for all
maintenance, repair, utility cost and insurance for such sign. The sign and all
adjacent landscaping shall be kept in a well maintained state.
         (e)   The provisions applicable to such sign in the homeowners'
association governing documents must be reviewed and approved by the Township
Solicitor.
         (f)   The homeowners' association documents must give the Township the
right and power but not the obligation to maintain the sign if the homeowners'
association fails to maintain the same and to assess the owner of the lot on
which the sign exists for the costs to complete such maintenance and repair.
         (g)   If the sign is installed upon the application of the homeowners'
association, the applicant shall execute an agreement containing provisions
similar to this division (G) as a condition of such approval. The form of
agreement shall be approved by the Township Solicitor.
         (h)   The sign must be located outside of all applicable site
triangles.
      (8)   Temporary exterior advertising signs shall be permitted on the
property on which the retail business being advertised thereon is operated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Temporary exterior advertising signs shall be permitted for non-
residential uses only.
         (b)   No more than one temporary exterior advertising sign shall be
located on the property on which the retail business which is being advertised
is operated.
         (c)   A temporary exterior advertising sign shall not be located in a
public right-of-way and shall be located so as not to impair pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or so as not to block or obstruct any required fire or other
exit.
         (d)   Temporary exterior advertising signs shall be constructed of
wood or framed wood and shall not exceed five feet in height and three feet in
width except that a one-sided, hand-lettered sign which includes a handcrafted
design of the product or service being advertised may be up to nine square
feet. A temporary exterior sign may be two-sided; provided that in the case of
a two-sided sign, neither side shall exceed five square feet in area. All
temporary exterior advertising signs shall be of sufficiently stable
construction so as to withstand windy conditions and not create a hazard to
pedestrians and shall be maintained in good physical condition at all times.
         (e)   A temporary exterior advertising sign may be displayed during
business hours only, but in no case more than 12 hours per day.
         (f)   A temporary exterior advertising sign shall not remain for
longer than 30 continuous days and shall not be utilized more than twice in one
calendar year. A temporary exterior advertising sign shall be removed within
two days after the event or activity.
         (g)   No temporary exterior advertising sign shall be illuminated or
have any parts or features attached to it that move or give the illusion of
movement or that produce any sound;
         (h)   Any and all temporary exterior advertising signs in use prior to
the effective date of this amendment are considered illegal. Any retail user
using an illegal temporary exterior advertising sign as of the effective date
of this amendment shall be required to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (9)   Banners located in a designated area approved as part of the final
site plan approval for the development, so long as they meet the following
conditions:
         (a)   Banners will be permitted only to identify a promotional event.
         (b)   The property owner/occupant may only display a banner a total of
four times each calendar year.
         (c)   Each banner may only be displayed up to a total of 14
consecutive days. If fewer days are used, the extra days are forfeited.
         (d)   The maximum size of any banner is the maximum permitted size of
any facade or attached sign applicable to the property.
         (e)   The maximum number of banners displayed at any one time shall
not exceed three.
      (10)   Flag poles may be installed on a lot and must meet the following
requirements:
         (a)   No more than one flag pole may be installed on any lot.
         (b)   The front and side yard setbacks applicable to flag poles shall
be one-half of the applicable minimum building front and side yard setback:
provided, however, that no flag pole may be installed or erected in any
required buffer area.
         (c)   The maximum height of flag poles is the maximum height for
buildings permitted in the applicable zoning district.
   (H)   Sign regulations applicable to specific zoning districts.
      (1)   Specific signs in the ORB - Office Retail Business and O1 - Office
1 Zoning Districts.
         (a)   Each commercial (business) establishment may have one sign on or
attached to the facade of the establishment on each public street frontage. The
sign shall not project or extend more than two feet beyond the building line
and shall not exceed an area equal to either 15% of the facade area of the
establishment facing the street, including window and door area on which they
are displayed, or 50 square feet, whichever is smaller.
         (b)   Each development with at least 100 feet of lot frontage on a
public street may have one freestanding sign on each public street frontage,
provided that such signs are not larger than one-half square foot of sign per
linear front foot of building, with a maximum of 75 square feet of area and
shall be erected within the property lines of the development to which they
relate. In the case of a group of two or more business uses sharing a common
parking area, one freestanding sign shall be permitted for the purpose of
identifying the site as an office complex, shopping center or other commercial
professional use or identifying the users within the development. Such sign
shall not be larger than one-half square foot of sign per linear front foot of
building with a maximum of 75 square feet and must be erected within the
property lines of the use to which it relates.
      (2)   Specific signs in the B - Business, EIB - Economic Industrial
Business, MB - Major Business, O3 - Office 3 Zoning Districts, and O4 - Office
Campus Zoning Districts and for non-residential uses only in the CR - Cluster
Residential, SH - Senior Housing and RR - Rural Residential Zoning Districts.
         (a)   Each commercial (business) establishment may have one sign on or
attached to the facade of the establishment on each public street frontage. If
the principal facade frontages of a group of commercial establishments located
in a shopping center or office complex are oriented toward an internal
pedestrian walkway or roadway, each commercial business establishment may have
one sign on or attached to the facade facing such walkway or roadway. The sign
shall not project or extend more than two feet beyond the building line and
shall not exceed 15% of the facade area of the establishment facing the street,
including window and door area on which they are displayed or 150 square feet,
whichever is smaller.
         (b)   Each development with at least 100 feet of lot frontage on a
county road or municipal street may have one freestanding sign on each public
street frontage, provided that such signs are not larger than one-half square
foot of sign per linear foot of building frontage, with a maximum of 75 square
feet of area and shall be erected within the property lines of the development
to which they relate.
         (c)   In the case of a group of two or more business uses sharing a
common parking area, one freestanding sign shall be permitted for the purpose
of identifying the site as an office complex, shopping center or other
commercial or professional use or identifying the users within the development.
Such sign shall not be larger than one-half square foot of sign per linear foot
of building frontage for all uses sharing the parking areas with a maximum of
75 square feet and must be erected within the property lines of the use to
which it relates.
         (d)   Each development with at least 100 feet of street frontage on a
state highway may have one freestanding sign on the state highway (subject to
Department of Transportation approval, if required), provided that such sign
shall not be larger than one-half square foot of sign area per linear foot of
building frontage, with a minimum of 32 square feet and a maximum of 75 square
feet of area and shall be erected within the property lines of the development
to which such sign relates.
         (e)   Blade signs. One blade sign shall be permitted along walking
promenades to identify an individual business use in lieu of a building
identification sign under division (H)(2)(a) above. The sign shall not exceed
six square feet in size, and the bottom of the sign shall not be less than
eight feet above the paving ground.
         (f)   Secondary blade signs. One secondary blade sign shall be
permitted along walking promenades to identify an individual business use. The
sign shall not exceed three square feet, and the bottom of the sign shall not
be less than seven feet six inches above the paving grade.
         (g)   In the O3 - Office 3 Zone where the TC - overlay applies, the
following sign regulations shall govern:
            1.   One sign not exceeding 300 square feet in area identifying or
advertising a theater in a community shopping center shall be permitted on each
public road adjacent to the community shopping center; no more than two such
signs shall be permitted for any theater.
            2.   No free-standing sign shall be set back less than 25 feet from
the street right-of-way.
      (3)   Signs in the TC - Town Center Zoning District.
         (a)   Freestanding or pylon signs are permitted subject to the
following:
            1.   No free-standing or pylon sign shall be set back less than 25
feet from the nearest line of any public road or street.
            2.   One free-standing or pylon sign, not exceeding 500 square feet
in area, identifying or advertising a regional shopping center shall be
permitted on each public road adjacent to the TC - Town Center Zone; provided,
however, that if the adjacent portion of any such public road exceeds 1,000
feet in length, one such additional sign shall be permitted for each additional
1,000 feet of frontage or portion thereof on such road.
            3.   One freestanding or pylon sign, not exceeding 500 square feet
in area, identifying or advertising a theater in a regional shopping center
shall be permitted on each public road adjacent to the TC - Township Center
Zone; provided, however, that no more than two such signs shall be permitted
for any theater.
            4.   One free-standing or pylon sign, not exceeding 300 square feet
in area, identifying a hospital, research and development establishment,
testing laboratory or other business primarily engaged in activities of a
limited industrial character shall be permitted for each such establishment on
each public road adjacent to the establishment.
            5.   One free-standing or pylon sign, not exceeding 200 square feet
in area, identifying or advertising an automobile sales showroom or tire,
battery and accessory store in a regional shopping center shall be permitted
for each such showroom or store.
            6.   One free-standing or pylon sign, not exceeding 32 square feet
in area, advertising the sale of letting only of premises within the TC -
Township Center Zone shall be permitted on each public road adjacent to the TC
- Township Center Zone; and one freestanding or pylon sign, not exceeding 32
square feet in area, shall be permitted on each arterial and collector street
within the TC - Township Center Zone.
            7.   One free-standing or pylon sign, not exceeding 100 square feet
in area, identifying the TC - Township Center zone by a name and/or symbol
shall be permitted at or near each vehicular entrance to such zone.
            8.   One free-standing or pylon sign, not exceeding 32 square feet
in area, identifying a gasoline service station shall be permitted on each
public road adjacent to such station.
            9.   One ground-mounted identification or directory sign, not
exceeding 32 feet in area, shall be permitted at or near each entrance to each
office building, hotel, motel, hospital, research and development
establishment, testing laboratory or other business use.
            10.    Freestanding directional signs and signs for the regulation
of traffic, parking, loading and unloading shall be permitted.
         (b)   Except as permitted above, all signs identifying or advertising
any commercial, limited industrial, public or recreational use in the TC -
Township Center Zone shall be affixed to the building or buildings devoted to
such use, and no sign or signs so affixed shall occupy more than 20% of the
total surface of any side of any building. Directory signs and informational
signs affixed to any building in a regional shopping center shall not be
included within the foregoing 20% limitation.
         (c)   No sign shall be illuminated by lighting of intermittent or
varying intensity, and no sign affixed to a building shall project above the
roof line or the top of any parapet facade of such building.
      (4)   Signs in the GB2 - General Business 2 Zoning District.
         (a)   General requirements.
            1.   No sign shall be illuminated by lighting of intermittent or
varying intensity.
            2.   No sign affixed to a building shall project above the roofline
or parapet facade of such building.
            3.   The size and location of all proposed signs shall be included
as part of the submission for final site plan approval.
         (b)   Freestanding or pylon signs. Freestanding or pylon signs shall
be permitted only as follows:
            1.   One free-standing sign, not exceeding 200 square feet in area,
shall be permitted on each public street which identifies a retail shopping
area of 50,000 gross square feet or larger.
            2.   Two free-standing or pylon signs not exceeding 50 square feet
each shall be permitted at each public street entrance drive (constituting an
intersection between an existing public street and the primary interior
vehicular circulation system, not a parking lot drive entrance) to identify by
name and/or symbol of the development on which such freestanding or pylon sign
is located.
            3.   One free-standing or pylon sign not exceeding 40 square feet
shall be permitted to identify each principal non-residential building,
including a parking garage building.
            4.   One free-standing or pylon sign not exceeding 40 square feet
shall be permitted to identify each mid-rise or high-rise residential building,
as well as one freestanding or pylon sign not to exceed 40 square feet to
identify the entrance to each low-rise residential neighborhood.
            5.   Each permitted non-residential use with at least 100 feet of
lot frontage on a public street may have one freestanding sign on each public
street frontage, provided that such signs are not larger than one-half square
foot of sign per linear front foot of building, with a maximum of 75 square
feet of area, and shall be erected within the property lines of the premises to
which they relate. In the case of a group of two or more business uses sharing
a common parking area, one freestanding sign shall be permitted for the purpose
of identifying the site as an office complex, shopping center or other
commercial professional use. Such sign shall not be larger than one-half square
foot of sign per linear front foot of building, with a maximum of 75 square
feet, and must be erected within the property lines of the use to which it
relates.
         (c)   Building identification signs shall be permitted as follows:
            1.   Each building containing non-residential uses shall be
permitted one building identification sign not to exceed the lesser of 15% of
the facade area facing the street (including window and door area) or 100
square feet, except that if the reviewing board determines at the time of final
site plan approval that such building contains multiple entrances and/or
exposures so that additional building identification signs would be helpful to
the public, the reviewing board may increase the number of such signs up to
three per individual building, provided that the cumulative square footage of
such building identification signs for any one building shall not exceed 200
square feet.
            2.   Each building containing a combination of residential and non-
residential uses shall be permitted one building identification sign, provided
that the total number of square feet contained in such building identification
sign related to any one building shall not exceed 50 square feet, except that
if the reviewing board determines at the time of final site plan approval that
such building contains multiple entrances and/or exposures so that additional
building identification signs would be helpful to the public, the reviewing
board may increase the number of sign up to three per individual building,
provided that the cumulative square footage of such building identification
signs for any one building shall not exceed 150 square feet.
            3.   Each individual business may have its own building
identification sign attached to a facade of the premises which it occupies.
Such sign shall not exceed 40 square feet or one-half square foot for each
linear foot of facade, whichever is greater.
            4.   Wording or identification logos may be painted or otherwise
attached to canopies and awnings at the first floor level of stores,
restaurants, offices and similar facilities. Such lettering or identification
logo shall relate only to the use located within the premises to which the
awning or canopy is attached and shall only be allowed on awnings or canopies
for the Plaza 1000, Promenade, Piazza and the Village Shops.
            5.   Blade signs. One blade sign shall be permitted along walking
promenades to identify an individual business in lieu of a building
identification sign as permitted above in division (H)(4)(c)3. above. The sign
shall not exceed six square feet in size, and the bottom of the sign shall not
be less than eight feet above the paving grade.
            6.    Secondary blade signs. One secondary blade sign shall be
permitted along walking promenades to identity an individual business use. The
sign shall not exceed three square feet, and the bottom of the sign shall not
be less than seven feet six inches above the paving grade.
            7.   Building numbering signs shall be permitted on any building,
provided that the number shall be at least 12 inches high and further, that
such signs do not exceed six square feet when building identification and
number are on the same sign.
            8.    Placement. Placement of signs shall be as follows:
               A.    Signage may be placed on the door of any individual
nonresidential tenant or occupant, not to exceed an area 18 inches by 18
inches; and
               B.   An individual non-residential tenant may erect a facade
plaque sign adjacent to any entrance door, not to exceed three square feet; but
               C.   No entrance door shall have both a door sign and a facade
plaque sign.
         (d)   There is no limit on the number of freestanding directional
signs that the reviewing board may approve, as long as such signs are needed to
direct the vehicular traffic as aforesaid. Such freestanding directional signs
shall, however, meet the following criteria:
            1.   No individual sign shall exceed six square feet in area except
that the six square feet can be increased up to ten square feet if the
information contained on the sign exceeds eight individual line items.
            2.   No individual sign shall be greater than six feet in height.
            3.   No individual sign shall be installed in any site triangle so
as to block visibility in an unsafe way.
         (e)   Directory and informational signs are defined as signs placed at
the pedestrian level intended to guide pedestrians to their destination either
to individual buildings or to individual occupants of buildings. There is no
limit as to the number of such directory and informational signs so long as the
reviewing board determines that they are needed to achieve the purpose of
directing and informing pedestrians, provided that they shall meet the
following criteria:
            1.   No individual sign shall exceed nine square feet.
            2.   No individual sign shall be more than six feet in height.
   (I)   Non-conforming signs. In the event that an existing non-conforming
sign is altered or proposed to be altered, the sign must either be brought into
conformance with this chapter or removed immediately. An alteration shall
include change of size, location or substantial reconstruction after
destruction by fire, storm or other calamity. Substantial reconstruction shall
mean that at least 50% of the sign and/or supporting structure will require
replacement. All owners of non-conforming signs will be notified that their
signs are non-conforming and of the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15; Am. Ord. 436-23, passed 6-26-23)
§ 150.16 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Non-residential parking regulations. The following parking schedule
shall be used to calculate the required number of off-street parking spaces per
use. Unless otherwise noted, the calculations shall be based upon the gross
square footage of the floor area of the use. Where the calculation results in a
fraction of a space, the required number of parking spaces shall be rounded up
to the nearest whole number.
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
USES REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
USES                                 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES
Assembly operation                   1 per 800 square feet GFA
Auto body and auto repair shops      2 per 1,000 square feet GFA, plus 1 per
                                     each vehicle used on site
                                     2.5 per 1,000 square feet of GFA
Auto, truck or similar dealerships   excluding auto repair, plus 110% of
                                     maximum vehicle inventory, plus spaces
                                     for auto repair per code
Bar                                  1 per 2 seats
Bowling alley                        4 per alley
Car wash, full service               10 per washing lane
Car wash, self service               1 per bay, plus 1 per employee
Church/synagogue/house of worship    1 per 3 seats
Convention areas                     1 per 3 seats
Fiduciary institutions               1 per 300 square feet GFA
Hospitals                            2 per bed
                                     1 per room, plus .5 per employee, plus
Hotel/motel                          convention area requirements as
                                     applicable
Industrial                           1 per 800 square feet GFA
Library                              1 per 300 square feet GFA
Manufacturing                        1 per 800 square feet GFA
Medical center                       1 per 250 square feet GFA
Nightclub                            1 per 3 seats
                                     1 per 3 children under 2 years old, 1
Nurseries and child day care         per 5 children 2 years or older, plus 4
                                     per 1,000 square feet GFA
Nursing homes, assisted living
facilities, skilled care nursing     .25 per unit, plus 1 per employee
facilities or similar convalescent   maximum shift
facilities
Offices                               
Under 49,999 square feet GFA         4.5 per 1,000 square feet GFA
50,000 - 99,999 square feet GFA      4 per 1,000 square feet GFA
100,000+ square feet GFA             3.5 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Receiving                            1 per 5,000 square feet GFA
                                     2.5 per 1,000 square feet used by
Recreation, indoor                   participants (excluding bowling alleys);
                                     1 per 3 spectator seats; plus 1 per
                                     employee maximum shift
                                     Sufficient space shall be provided on-
                                     site to prevent parking along public
Recreation, outdoor                  rights-of-way and other off-site areas,
                                     fire lanes and parking aisles as
                                     determined by the review board
Research                             1 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Restaurant (with seats)              1 per 3 seats, plus 1 per employee
                                     maximum shift
Restaurant (no seats, such as water  1 per 50 square feet GFA
ice, custard and ice cream sales)
Retail store                         1 per 200 square feet GFA
                                      
Schools                              2 per classroom, but not less than 1 per
Elementary                           teacher and staff
Intermediate                         1.5 per classroom, but not less than 1
Secondary                            per teacher and staff
                                     2.5 per classroom, but not less than 1
                                     per teacher and staff
                                     .5 per fill area, plus 1 per employee
Service station, fuel only           maximum shift. If retail sales and
                                     vehicle space, see requirements.
Service station, full service        4 per bay and working area
Shipping                             1 per 5,000 square feet GFA
Shopping centers                      
Under 400,000 square feet GLA        4 per 1,000 square feet GLA
400,000 - 599,999 square feet GLA    4.5 per 1,000 square feet GLA
600,000+ square feet GLA             5 per 1,000 square feet GLA
Storage areas                        1 per 5,000 square feet GLA
Theaters                             1 per 3 seats
In shopping centers                  1 per 4 seats
Warehouses                           1 per 5,000 square feet GFA
(Other general uses not specifically 4.5 per 1,000 square feet GFA
stated)
GFA = Gross Floor Area
GLA = Gross Leasable Area
 
   (B)   Residential parking regulations.
      (1)   Passenger vehicles may only be parked on residential properties
where designated as a driveway. Parking on lawn areas is prohibited.
      (2)   Only one recreational vehicle (i.e. boat, camper) may be parked on
a residential property at any given time and must be parked in the designated
driveway.
(Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 150.17 RENEWABLE ENERGY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall
have the meaning ascribed as follows:
      FAA. Federal Aviation Administration of the United States of America.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system and all associated equipment
which converts solar energy into a usable electrical energy, heats water or
produces hot air or other similar function through the use of solar panels.
      SOLAR PANEL. A structure containing one or more receptive cells the
purpose of which is to convert solar energy into useable electrical energy by
way of a solar energy system.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, associated poles/towers and support structures and associated control
or conversion of electronics which has a rated capacity consistent with
applicable construction codes which will be used for on-site consumption but
not including large diameter windmills.
      WIND TURBINE. Equipment that converts energy from wind into electricity.
This term includes the rotor, blades and associated mechanical and electrical
conversation components necessary to generate, store and/or transfer energy.
   (B)   Wind energy systems.
      (1)   Wind energy systems for the purpose of generating electricity shall
be permitted as an accessory use in all districts, subject to all other
provisions of this chapter, if the following requirements are met:
         (a)   Due to the nature of the small residential lot sizes associated
with Voorhees Township, large diameter, tall wind mills are prohibited.
         (b)   No wind energy system shall be constructed unless the property
owner, wind energy system user and/or their authorized designee has obtained
site plan approval in accordance with the provisions of the ULDO, provided
that, in addition to such requirements, the applicant's submission shall
contain the following:
            1.   Current property survey by a professional surveyor licensed in
the State of New Jersey;
            2.   Plot plan showing the location of the proposed wind turbine
tower or support pole, all right-of-way line(s) and the location of all utility
lines;
            3.   A wind study prepared by a qualified individual to verify that
the property conditions will produce the intended power generation by the wind
turbine being considered;
            4.   Wind system specifications, wind study and design calculations
for turbine, pole, foundation, roof mounting, etc.; and
            5.   Evidence that the applicant has met any and all New Jersey
Board of Public Utility guidelines for wind energy systems.
         (c)    Wind-generating systems shall be restricted to vertical-axis
wind turbine technology which meets the requirements set forth in division (B)
(2) of this section.
         (d)   All electrical and structural design criteria shall meet the
requirements of the New Jersey Uniform Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:23). All
ground-mounted wind energy systems shall not be artificially lighted except to
the extent required by the FAA or other applicable authority.
         (e)   Wind turbines contained in the wind energy system shall be
designed with an automatic brake or other similar device to prevent over-
speeding and excessive pressure on the tower structure.
         (f)   All ground-mounted electrical and control equipment shall be
labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized access.
         (g)   All moving parts of the wind energy system shall be a minimum of
ten feet above ground level.
         (h)   The blades on the wind energy system shall be constructed of a
corrosive-resistant material.
         (i)   All guy wires or any part of the wind energy system shall be
located on the same lot as the wind energy system.
         (j)   The design of wind energy systems shall, to the extent
reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping
that will blend the system into the natural setting and existing environment.
The wind energy system shall remain painted or finished in the color or finish
that was originally applied by the manufacturer unless a different color is
approved by the reviewing board.
         (k)   All components of the system shall be maintained in accordance
with the most current requirements set forth in the New Jersey Uniform
Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:23).
         (l)   Wind energy systems shall comply with New Jersey's metering and
interconnection standards.
      (2)   Vertical-axis wind turbines shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   The system shall generate no more than ten kilowatts of power
per residential dwelling or commercial building, or be sized to generate more
power than what is required by said structure.
         (b)   Only one vertical-axis wind turbine shall be permitted on any
lot.
         (c)   No vertical-axis wind turbine support pole or tower shall be
constructed in the front yard of any property.
         (d)   A vertical-axis wind turbine shall be no more than 48 inches in
diameter and 72 inches tall.
         (e)   The total height of a vertical-axis wind turbine shall be no
more than 41 feet above ground surface to the top of the wind turbine unit.
         (f)   All parts or components of the wind energy system, including
support poles, towers and vertical-axis wind turbines shall be set back a
distance equal to its total height from any public right-of-way, overhead
utility lines and all property lines.
         (g)   Support poles/towers and support foundations shall be designed
by a professional engineer licensed in the State of New Jersey. In the event a
vertical-axis wind turbine is proposed to be mounted to, or constructed on top
of, an existing dwelling or building, the applicant shall also provide detailed
calculations and engineering drawings of the proposed mounting. In no event
shall cables be permitted to support towers, monopoles or roof-mounted
structures.
         (h)   No signs, other than manufacturer warning signs and labels,
shall be attached to any support pole, tower or turbine unit. In no event shall
any such identification be visible from the property line or beyond.
         (i)   All units and unit installation shall be in accordance with all
applicable state construction and electrical codes, including the National
Electric Code. All units shall be grid-tied. All wiring shall be concealed
under the roof line, below the roof deck structure or under ground.
         (j)   Noise energy levels shall not exceed 55 decibels at a common
property line, provided that such level may be exceeded during short-term
events such as utility outages and severe windstorms.
   (C)   Solar energy systems.
      (1)   Solar energy systems for the purpose of generating electricity
shall be permitted as an accessory use in all zones, subject to all other
provisions of this chapter, if the following requirements are met:
         (a)   Solar energy systems may consist of photovoltaic cells, hot
water collector applications and hot air applications.
         (b)   Flat roof-mounted solar energy systems may be constructed on
residential dwellings, garages and accessory structures.
         (c)   Free-standing or ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be
considered a structure and shall be subject to the regulations of the zone for
such, together with all other requirements of this chapter and any other
applicable building codes and ordinances, provided that no free-standing or
ground-mounted solar energy system shall be constructed in the front yard of
any property.
         (d)   Except for roof-mounted systems, which shall be exempt from site
plan approval, no solar energy system shall be constructed unless the property
owner, solar energy system user and/or their authorized designee has obtained
site plan approval in accordance with the provisions of the ULDO, provided
that, in addition to such requirements, the applicant's submission shall
contain the following:
         (e)   No solar energy system shall be constructed unless the property
owner, solar energy system user and/or their authorized designee has obtained
site plan approval in accordance with the provisions of the ULDO, provided
that, in addition to such requirements, the applicant's submission shall
contain the following:
            1.   Current property survey by a professional surveyor licensed in
the State of New Jersey showing all current improvements on the property and
the proposed location of the solar energy system sought to be constructed;
            2.   A study, prepared by a qualified individual, to verify that
the property conditions will produce the intended solar power generation based
on property location, surrounding structures and building orientation; and
            3.   Solar energy system plan and specifications, including but not
limited to detailed calculations and engineered drawings of the proposed
mounting, prepared by a professional engineer licensed in the State of New
Jersey.
         (e)   Tree clearing and/or removal shall not be permitted for the
construction of solar energy systems or to create a path to allow sunlight to
reach the solar energy systems.
         (f)   No signs, other than manufacturer warning signs and labels,
shall be attached to any solar panel or mounting material or equipment. In no
event shall any such identification be visible from the property line or
beyond.
         (g)   The design of solar energy systems shall, to the extent
reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping
that will blend the system into the natural setting and existing environment.
      (2)   Solar energy systems shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Solar energy systems shall generate no more than ten kilowatts
of power per residential dwelling or commercial building, or be sized to
generate more power than what is required by said structure.
         (b)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems, other than systems
structurally attached to a flat roof, shall comply with the height restrictions
of the zone provided that no such roof-mounted solar energy system shall
project vertically above the peak of the roof or exceed a distance of three
feet from the rooftop at any point.
         (c)   Solar energy systems structurally mounted on a flat roof shall
comply with the height restrictions of the zone provided that same shall not
exceed a distance of five feet above the roof.
         (d)   Free-standing or ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed six feet in height measured from ground level and shall be set back a
minimum of 20 feet from all property lines.
         (e)   All free-standing or ground- mounted solar energy systems shall
be located so that any reflection is directed away or is properly buffered from
an adjoining property.
         (f)   In the case where the reviewing board approves a roof-mounted,
front-facing solar energy system, the solar panels must be flush-mounted to the
roof.
         (g)   All units and unit installation shall be in accordance with all
applicable state construction and electrical codes, including the National
Electric Code. All units shall be grid-tied. All wiring shall be concealed
under the roof line, below the roof deck structure or under ground.
   (D)   Abandonment and removal of wind and solar energy systems.
      (1)   Any wind or solar energy system permitted and installed in
accordance with this chapter which has not been in active and continuous
service for a period of one year shall be deemed abandoned.
      (2)   All abandoned wind or solar energy systems, including all support
structures, structural enclosures and/or other materials accessory to the wind
or solar energy system, shall be removed from the property to a place of safe
and legal disposal.
      (3)   The former wind or solar energy site shall be restored to its
natural condition within six months of removal of an abandoned wind or solar
energy system from the property.
(Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15; Am. Ord. 391-21, passed 10-12-21)
CHAPTER 151: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General
   
151.01    Adoption of standards by reference
   
151.02    Enforcement Officer
Housing Standards
   
151.20    Inspections
   
151.21    Right of access by owner
   
151.22    Notice of violation
   
151.23    Hearing
   
151.24    Emergencies
   
151.25    Rules and regulations
   
151.26    Conformance of rental dwellings
Lightning Protection Systems
   
151.40    Minimum standards
   
151.41    Installation; review letter
   
151.42    Review by enforcement officer
   
151.43    Complaints; enforcement
 
    
151.99    Penalty
GENERAL
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   In determining whether residential dwellings within the Township are
safe, sanitary and fit for human habitation, the following standards, which are
hereby accepted, adopted and made a part of the Township Code as if fully set
forth herein, with the additions, deletions and changes, if any, as set forth
below, shall apply.
      (1)   The BOCA National Property Maintenance Code, Fourth Edition, 1993,
as published by the Building Officials and CodeAdministrators International,
Inc. (hereinafter the "BOCA Code"), modified as follows:
         (a)   Section PM-101.2 (Page 1, second line): Township of Voorhees.
         (b)   Section PM-106.2 (Page 3, third line): A fine of not less than
$200 nor more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of not more than 365 days.
      (2)   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:49-5.1, the New Jersey
State Housing Code as approved by the state Department of Community Affairs and
filed in the Secretary of State's office (the "New Jersey Housing Code").
      (3)   Pursuant to the provisions of the most recent edition of the
Regulations for Maintenance of Hotels and Multiple Dwellings (N.J.A.C. 5:10)
for all hotels and residential rental buildings with four or more units.
   (B)   A copy of the Property Maintenance Code, Regulations for Maintenance
of Hotels and Multiple Dwellings (N.J.A.C. 5:10) and the New Jersey Housing
Code (N.J.A.C. 5:28) shall be kept on file at all times in the office of the
Township Clerk and shall be available to all persons desiring to use and
examine the same.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 151.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Housing Inspector of the Township is hereby designated as the officer to
exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter, and shall serve in such
capacity with the salary set forth in the annual salary ordinance.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
HOUSING STANDARDS
§ 151.20 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to make
necessary to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, and premises
located within the Township in order to safeguard the general public. For the
purpose of making such inspections, the Housing Inspector is hereby authorized
to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times dwellings, dwelling units,
and premises located within the Township. The occupants of dwellings, dwelling
units or premises may give the Housing Inspector access to any part of such
dwellings, dwelling units or premises at all reasonable times for the purpose
of making the inspections.
   (B)   Should the occupants of a dwelling or dwelling unit refuse to give the
Housing Inspector access to any part of such dwelling, dwelling unit or
premises at a reasonable time for the purpose of making such inspection, then
the Housing Inspector, upon affidavit, shall apply to the Municipal Judge of
the Township or a Superior Court Judge of the state for a search warrant,
setting forth such facts regarding the circumstances that provided probable
cause for believing that a nuisance or violation of the Township Code exists in
the dwelling, dwelling unit or premises, or setting forth that the requested
search warrant is part of an area inspection and is necessary in carrying out a
program of property maintenance and neighborhood improvement with the Township.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.21 RIGHT OF ACCESS BY OWNER.
   Any occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit or premises shall give the owner
or his or her agent, employee or contractor access to any part of such
dwelling, dwelling unit or premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to comply with the
provisions of the Regulations for Maintenance of Hotels and Multiple Dwellings
or the New Jersey Housing Code.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 151.22 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Housing Inspector determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this
chapter, he or she shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or
persons responsible therefor as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall be put
in writing and include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued. Such
notice shall allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it
requires. Any such notice must be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or
the occupant, as the cause may require, provided that such notice shall be
deemed to be properly served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant,
if a copy thereof is served upon him personally, or if a copy thereof is sent
by registered mail to his or her last known address, or if a copy thereof is
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice
if he or she is served with such notice by any other method authorized or
required under the laws of this state.
   (B)   Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken,
will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.23 HEARING.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the Housing Inspector, provided such person shall file in
the office of the Township Clerk a written petition requesting such hearing and
setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefore with ten days after
the day the notice was served. Upon receipt of such petition the Housing
Inspector shall seta time and place for such hearing and shall give the
petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing the petitioner shall be
given the opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be
modified or withdrawn.
   (B)   The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the day
on which the petition was filed, provided that upon application of the
petitioner, the Housing Inspector may postpone the date of the hearing for a
reasonable time beyond such ten-say period if in his or her judgment the
petitioner has submitted a good and sufficient reason for such postponement.
After such hearing the Housing Inspector shall sustain, modify or withdraw the
notice, depending upon his or her findings as to whether the provisions of this
chapter and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been
complied with. If the Housing Inspector sustains or modifies such notice, it
shall be deemed to be an order. Any notice served pursuant to this chapter
shall automatically become an order if a written petition for a hearing is not
filed in the office of the Township Clerk within ten days after such notice is
served. The proceedings at such hearing, including the findings and decision of
the Housing Inspector, shall be summarized, reduced to writing and entered as a
matter of public record in the office of the Township Clerk. Such record shall
also include a copy of every notice or order issued in connection with the
matter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Housing inspector may seek
relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws
of the state.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.24 EMERGENCIES
   Whenever the Housing Inspector finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health or safety, he or she may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems necessary to meet
the emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Housing Inspector shall
be afforded a hearing as soon as possible. After such hearing, depending upon
his or her findings as to whether the provisions of this chapter and of the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have been complied with, the
Housing Inspector shall continue such order in effect, modify it or revoke it.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.25 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Housing Inspector is hereby authorized and empowered to make and
establish such written rules and regulations as he or she may deem necessary
for the proper enforcement of the provisions of this chapter; provided,
however, that such rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter nor in any way alter, amend or supersede any of the
provisions thereof. The Housing Inspector shall file a certified copy of all
rules and regulations which he or she may establish in his or her office and in
the office of the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.26 CONFORMANCE OF RENTAL DWELLINGS.
   No person shall rent to another for occupancy any dwelling, dwelling unit or
premises for the purpose of living therein which does not conform to the
provisions of the Regulations for Maintenance of Hotels and Multiple Dwellings
and the New Jersey Housing Code.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
LIGHTNING PROTECTION SYSTEMS
§ 151.40 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   No lightning protection system may be installed on any residential structure
or dwelling unless such system meets the following minimum standards:
   (A)   Must be a lightning protection system engineered and designed in
accordance with one of the following nationally recognized standards:
      (1)   The National Fire Protection Association's Standard for the
installation of Lightning Protection Systems (NFPA 780);
      (2)   The Master Label Program of LIL 96 or UL:96A; or
      (3)   The Certified System Program of the Lightning Protection Institute;
and
   (B)   Must be installed by a contractor qualified and experienced in the
installation of lightning protection systems.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.41 INSTALLATION; REVIEW LETTER.
   No lightning protection system shall be installed on any dwelling, dwelling
unit or premises located within the Township prior to issuance of a review
letter by the Housing Inspector stating that the system and its installation
complies with this chapter. Application for a review letter shall be made by
submission of the following information to the Housing Inspector:
   (A)   The name, address and professional qualifications of the contractor or
other person who will install the lightning protection system;
   (B)   A detailed proposal of the work that the contractor or other person
plans to perform to install the lightning protections system; and
   (C)   The manufacturer's specifications for installation of the lightning
protection system.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 151.42 REVIEW BY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Within 15 days following receipt of the application materials required
by §
151.41 above, the Housing Inspector shall review the application to determine
each of the following:
      (1)   Whether the planned lightning protection system is an engineered
system designed in accordance with one of the following nationally recognized
standards:
         (a)   The National Fire Protection Association's Standard for the
Installation of Lightning Protection Systems (NFPA 780);
         (b)   The Master Label Program of UL 96 or UL 96A; or
         (c)   The Certified System Program of the Lightning Protection
Institute.
      (2)   Whether the contractor or other person planning to install the
lightning protection system has presented sufficient evidence of his or her
professional qualifications for installation of lightning protection systems;
and
      (3)   Whether the proposal submitted by the contractor or other person
contains the work necessary to install the lightning protection system in
accordance with one of the nationally recognized standards described in this
subsection (A) above.
   (B)   If the Housing Inspector determines that the proposed installation of
the lightning protection system complies with §
151.41, the Housing Inspector shall issue a review letter stating that the
application meets the requirements of this chapter.
§ 151.43 COMPLAINTS; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Housing Inspector shall have the authority to cite or issue a complaint
to any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.42. Residents of the Township also may file complaints with the Housing
Inspector for violation of §§
151.40 through
151.42 by any owner or occupant of any dwelling, dwelling unit or premises
within the Township.
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted after a hearing of violating or failing to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both, in the
discretion of the court. The continuation of such violation for each successive
day shall constitute a separate offense and the person or persons allowing or
permitting the continuation of the violation may be punished as provided above
for each separate offense.
(Ord. 962-99, passed 11-8-99)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
RR - Rural Residential
   
152.001   Purpose and intent
   
152.002   Permitted uses
   
152.003   Conditional uses
   
152.004   Density
   
152.005   Area and bulk standards
   
152.006   Zone specific design standards
MDR - Medium Density Residential
   
152.011   Purpose and intent
   
152.012   Permitted uses
   
152.013   Conditional uses
   
152.014   Density
   
152.015   Area and bulk standards
   
152.016   Zone specific design standards
R10 - Residential 10
   
152.021   Purpose and intent
   
152.022   Permitted uses
   
152.023   Density
   
152.024   Area and bulk standards
   
152.025   Zone specific design standards
CR - Cluster Residential
   
152.031   Purpose and intent
   
152.032   Permitted uses
   
152.033   Conditional uses
   
152.034   Density
   
152.035   Area and bulk standards
   
152.036   Zone specific design standards
SH - Senior Housing
   
152.041   Purpose and intent
   
152.042   Permitted uses
   
152.043   Conditional uses
   
152.044   Density
   
152.045   Area and bulk standards
   
152.046   Zone specific design standards
O1 - Office 1
   
152.051   Purpose and intent
   
152.052   Permitted uses
   
152.053   Conditional uses
   
152.054   Density
   
152.055   Bulk standards
   
152.056   Zone specific design standards
O3 - Office 3
   
152.061   Purpose and intent
   
152.062   Permitted uses
   
152.063   Conditional uses
   
152.064   Density
   
152.065   Area and bulk standards
   
152.066   Zone specific design standards
O4 – Office Campus Zone
   
152.067   Purpose and intent
   
152.068   Permitted uses
   
152.069   Area and bulk standards
   
152.070   Zone specific design standards
ORB - Office Retail Business
   
152.071   Purpose and intent
   
152.072   Permitted uses
   
152.073   Conditional Uses
   
152.074   Density
   
152.075   Area and bulk standards
   
152.076   Zone specific design standards
B - Business
   
152.081   Purpose and intent
   
152.082   Permitted uses
   
152.083   Conditional uses
   
152.084   Density
   
152.085   Area and bulk standards
   
152.086   Design standards for Route 561
GB2 - General Business 2
   
152.091   Purpose and intent
   
152.092   Permitted uses
   
152.093   Conditional uses
   
152.094   Density
   
152.095   Area and bulk standards
   
152.096   Zone specific design standards
MB – Major Business Zone
   
152.101   Purpose and intent
   
152.102   Permitted uses and bulk standards
   
152.103   Conditional uses - general development plan
   
152.104   Conditional uses not requiring general development plan approval
TC - Township Center
   
152.131   Purpose and intent
   
152.132   Permitted uses
   
152.133   (Reserved)
   
152.134   Density
   
152.135   Area and bulk standards
   
152.136   Zone specific design standards
   
152.137   Adoption of redevelopment plan
EIB - Economic Industrial Business
   
152.141   Purpose and intent
   
152.142   Permitted uses
   
152.143   Conditional uses
   
152.144   Density
   
152.145   Area and bulk standards
   
152.146   Zone specific design standards
CP - Community Property
   
152.151   Purpose and intent
   
152.152   Permitted uses
   
152.153   Density
   
152.154   Special provisions
AH – Affordable Housing District
   
152.161   Purpose and intent
   
152.162   Permitted uses
   
152.163   Conditional uses
   
152.164   Area and bulk requirements
   
152.165   Zone specific design standards
Cannabis Establishments as  Conditionally Permitted Use in Overlay Zone
   
152.171   Purpose and intent
   
152.172   Conditional use
   
152.173   Conditions of operation for cannabis establishments
   
152.174   Conditions of performance standards
   
152.175   Conditions of site development standards
   
152.176   Enforcement
RR - RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE
§ 152.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the RR - Rural Residential Zone is to provide
single family residential housing of low density in areas either without public
sewer and water or which contain environmentally sensitive lands.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.002 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single family detached dwellings with only the following accessory
uses:
      (1)   Garages;
      (2)   Pools;
      (3)   Tennis courts;
      (4)   Cabanas;
      (5)   Sheds; or
      (6)   Similar uses incidental to the primary residential use.
   (B)   Public parks, playgrounds, active and passive recreation with only
accessory buildings necessary for the operation and maintenance of the primary
use.
   (C)   Agricultural uses that meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Breeding, raising, maintaining or producing, excluding slaughter
and preparation, for sale, lease or personal use of livestock, including but
not limited to, horses, ponies, dairy animals, poultry, pigeons, cattle, sheep,
swine, mules or goats or any mutations or hybrids thereof, shall be permitted
provided that the following shall be met:
         (a)   Horses and ponies may be kept on lots of two acres or more in
land area. One horse or pony may be kept per acre of land in the lot.
         (b)   Pigeons and poultry may be bred, raised or produced on lots of
two acres or more. A pen, hen house, cage or roost containing a minimum of ten
square feet per animal shall be provided on the property.
         (c)   All other livestock may be bred, raised or produced on lots of
two acres or more. No more than two animals may be kept on lots containing five
acres of land or less. On lots of more than five acres, one animal per acre may
be kept, bred, raised or produced; provided, however, the maximum number of
animals that may be kept, bred, raised or produced may be increased to the
minimum required to meet the requirements of the Farmland Assessment Act,
N.J.S.A. 54:4-23.1 et seq., if applicable.
         (d)   For all horses, ponies, dairy animals, cattle, sheep, swine,
mules and goats, a pen or corral containing a minimum of 800 square feet for
the first such animal and 400 square feet for each additional animal shall be
provided. Each pen or corral shall contain a stable a minimum size of 100
square feet per animal and shall be so constructed as to minimize the creation
of offensive odors and the breeding of insects or other nuisances.
      (2)   The growing of agricultural products, including soil preparation,
crop and horticultural services.
   (D)   Markets for the sale of agricultural products provided the market
meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The sales area of the market shall not exceed 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   The principal products or goods for sale are produced on the
premises.
      (3)   No market shall be less than 100 feet form any right of way.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 956-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 152.003 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Home businesses.
      (1)   Conditions for use:
         (a)   The gross floor area devoted to home business use shall not
exceed the lesser of 250 square feet or 10% of the total gross floor living
area of the residential property.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be provided for the home business in
addition to the spaces required for the residential use, provided that no more
than two additional spaces are provided, and further provided that only one
business vehicle combined with a trailer, if any, which shall not exceed 8,000
pounds registered vehicle weight, shall be permitted to park at the residential
property.
         (c)   No more than one non-resident employee shall be permitted.
         (d)   No goods, material, supplies or items of any kind may be
delivered either to or from the premises, except in a passenger vehicle owned
by the resident, and no products, materials, supplies, equipment, goods or
other items may be stored on or about the exterior of the property or on or in
an open truck or trailer.
         (e)   No client, customer, patient or patron shall be permitted to be
upon the premises for business or professional purposes.
         (f)   No retail or wholesale sales products or materials shall be
permitted on the premises for business or professional purposes.
         (g)   A certificate of conformance shall be required for the floor
area devoted to the home business.
         (h)   No sign identifying or advertising the home business shall be
permitted.
      (2)   No accessory uses are permitted.
   (B)   Schools, churches, chapels, synagogues or similar houses of worship,
convents and monasteries.
      (1)   Conditions for use:
         (a)   Minimum tract size: 1 acre
         (b)   Minimum parking setbacks:
            1.   35 feet from county or state right-of-way;
            2.   25 feet from any residential zone;
            3.   20 feet from municipal right-of-way;
            4.   20 feet from rear property line;
            5.   10 feet from side property lines; provided, however, zero feet
shall be required when cross-easements for parking are provided.
         (c)   Minimum buffer width and location: 15 feet within the setback
areas adjacent to parking areas and outdoor recreation facilities from any
residentially zoned property.
         (d)   All utilities must be located underground;
         (e)   Such additional restrictions or conditions as the reviewing
board may impose in order to control the effect of noise, traffic movement and
volume, lighting, and/or the intensity of such conditional use on adjacent land
uses. The reviewing board may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure
compliance with such restrictions or conditions.
      (2)   Development review requirements.
         (a)   Site plan review approval must be obtained from the reviewing
board with jurisdiction, pursuant to
Chapter 156 of the Township Code.
         (b)   Such conditional use must include sight lighting and landscaping
and the design of all required buffers must comply with
Chapter 154 of the Township Code.
      (3)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   For public and private non-profit schools:
            1.   Parks and playgrounds;
            2.   Accessory buildings necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the primary use.
         (b)   For all other primary conditional uses permitted above, rectory
or parish houses.
   (C)   Hospitals, nursing homes, convalescent care facilities or such similar
use.
      (1)   Conditions for use.
         (a)   Minimum tract size: two acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 200 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 50 feet.
         (d)   Minimum rear and side yard setback: 50 feet, except 100 feet
from any other residentially zoned property.
         (e)   Maximum height limitation: 100 feet for hospitals and 50 feet
for other uses, with the requirement that for every ten feet or portion thereof
in excess of 30 feet, all setbacks shall be increased by an additional ten
feet.
         (f)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60% of the total lot area.
         (g)   Minimum parking setbacks:
            1.   35 feet from any county or state right-of-way;
            2.   25 feet from any residentially zoned property;
            3.   20 feet from a municipal right-of-way;
            4.   20 feet from rear property line;
            5.   10 feet from the side property line; provided, however, zero
feet shall be required where cross easements for parking areas are provided.
         (h)   Such additional restrictions or conditions as the reviewing
board may impose in order to control the effect of noise, traffic movement and
volume, lighting and/or intensity of such conditional use on adjacent land
uses. The reviewing board may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure
compliance with such restrictions or conditions.
      (2)   Development review requirements.
         (a)   Site plan review approval must be obtained from the reviewing
board with jurisdiction, pursuant to
Chapter 156 of the Township Code.
         (b)   Such conditional use must include site lighting and landscaping
and the design of all required buffers must comply with
Chapter 154 of the Township Code.
         (c)   Any development shall be constructed in accordance with an
overall architectural plan such that the facades, rooflines, architectural
detail and landscaping of each building shall be compatible with all other
existing or proposed buildings on the site.
         (d)   The principal and accessory buildings shall be arranged in a
group or groups such that no building shall be less than 25 feet from any other
building.
      (3)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Permitted accessory uses.
            1.   Out-patient facilities;
            2.   Medical and dental offices;
            3.   Pediatric centers; and
            4.   Similar medical uses.
         (b)   Conditions of accessory uses.  Accessory uses cannot constitute
more than 49% of the total gross floor area of all buildings on the lot,
premises or development (whether or not completed in phases).
   (D)   Clustered single-family attached and detached dwellings.
      (1)   Conditions for use.
         (a)   Clustered single-family attached and detached dwellings existing
as of January 1, 2006 shall be considered confirming under the regulations
approving such use.
      (2)   Area and bulk requirements.
         (a)   Area and bulk requirements for clustered single-family detached
dwellings existing as of January 1, 2006 are as follows:
            1.   Minimum front yard setback: 30 feet;
            2.   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet; and
            3.   Minimum rear yard set back: 20 feet.
         (b)   Area and bulk requirements for clustered single-family attached
dwellings existing as of January 1, 2006 are as follows:
            1.   Minimum front yard setback: 20 feet;
            2.   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet on one side and zero feet
for common wall side-yards; and
            3.   Minimum rear yard setback: 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory uses for clustered single-family attached dwellings
existing as of January 1, 2006 shall be as permitted under §
150.13(B).
         (b)   Accessory uses for clustered single-family detached dwellings
existing as of January 1, 2006 shall be as permitted under §
150.13(A).
   (E)   Low intensity offices uses.
      (1)   Conditions for use:
         (a)   The property must have its only access and main frontage on the
North side of County Road 671 (Haddonfield - Kresson Road) and must
be located between Partridge Drive and State Highway 73 OR the property must
have its only access and main frontage on the west side of County Road 673
(White Horse Road) and must be located between County Road 561 (Haddonfield-
Berlin Road) and County Road 544 (Evesham Road).
         (b)   All required parking must be off-street and all parking must be
buffered from the street and any nearby residences.
         (c)   Similar office uses, which are located adjacent to the subject
property, must share access where reasonably possible.
         (d)   The maximum impervious coverage: 40%.
         (e)   A sign identifying or advertising the office use is permitted in
accordance with the following:
            1.   A use may have its own building identification sign attached
to the premises which it occupies. Such sign shall not exceed 10 square feet in
area.
            2.   A use may have one ground-mounted sign not to exceed 20 square
feet in area which cannot be greater than five feet in height and must have a
minimum front yard setback of 10 feet.
            3.   Signs may be illuminated subject to review and approval of the
reviewing board.
            4.   All other signage shall be regulated pursuant to § 154.10 of
the Township Code.
      (2)   Development review requirements. Site plan review approval must be
obtained from the reviewing board with jurisdiction, pursuant to
Chapter 156 of the Township Code.
      (3)   No accessory uses are permitted.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 24-01, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 25-01,
passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-
15)
§ 152.004 DENSITY.
   (A)   The maximum density permitted in the RR-Rural Residential Zone for
single- family detached dwellings shall be 0.75 units per acre. The base
density may be increased up to 1.5 units per acre in the discretion of the
reviewing board which shall take into consideration the reports and evidenced
adduced at the public hearing on any application for development approval and
the effect of the increase in density on the public health, safety and general
welfare and particularly, but not in limitation therefore, the following
factors:
      (1)   Soil erosion by water and wind.
      (2)   Drainage and storm water management matters.
      (3)   The availability of sanitary sewer.
      (4)   The affect on the water table and/or aquifer.
      (5)   Soil fertility.
      (6)   Traffic impacts on surrounding development and road ways.
      (7)   Residential site improvement standards (RSIS).
      (8)   Such other factors as may bear upon or relate to the coordinated,
adjusted and harmonious physical development of the township and any
environmental impact thereon.
   (B)   In the event that the reviewing board makes a determination that the
applicant may be permitted to increase the base density up to 1.5 units per
acre, then in such case, the applicant shall be required to pay $25,000 per
added unit as a result of this increase in density which shall be paid into the
Township Open Space Fund as compensation for added property being subdivided
and lost as open area at the time of final subdivision approval.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, any lot
existing as of April 12, 1999, or subject to the protections provided under
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1, et seq., and which otherwise confirms to the area and bulk
standards of the RR - Rural Residential Zone, will not be deemed non-conforming
as to density. Any subdivision of vacant land in the RR - Rural Residential
Zone on or after April 12, 1999 must confirm to the maximum density
requirements of the RR - Rural Residential Zone as provided in this section.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 24-01, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 25-01,
passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 186-11, passed 4-26-
11; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.005 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: one acre.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 25 feet
   (C)   Minimum lot width: Measured at the front yard setback line, 100 feet.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setbacks: 50 feet.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setbacks:
         (a)   75 feet from any county or state right-of-way for reverse
frontage lots;
         (b)   30 feet from any other rear property line.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setbacks: 30 feet.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: two and one half stories but not to exceed
35 feet.
   (F)   Minimum backyard area: 30 feet.
   (G)   Maximum impervious coverage: 45%
   (H)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing board to
promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (I)   Open space requirements. Development of ten acres or larger shall set
aside a minimum of 10% of the gross tract acreage for open space of which a
maximum of 50% may be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection. Upon request, the reviewing board may allow an
applicant to provide, in lieu of some or all of the required open space,
additional passive recreational facilities to be installed, on-site or off-
site, as specifically approved by the reviewing board, in such amount and
location as the reviewing board in its discretion shall require.
   (J)   Other requirements: All developments of 25 acres or larger shall
provide active recreation designed for the primary use of the development’s
residents, unless the reviewing board finds that the characteristics of the
site dictate passive recreation as a better use for such development.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.006 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following regulations shall apply unless, after due consideration of
plans, testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board waives strict
compliance with these requirements in order to further the purposes of this
chapter:
   (A)   Landscaping. Each lot to be developed shall contain at least two shade
trees a minimum of three inches in caliper and shall meet the minimum standards
set by the American Nurseryman's Association. The reviewing board shall reserve
the right to require additional shade trees given the natural condition of the
land to be subdivided.
   (B)   Lot arrangement and housing type. Lots shall be arranged such that
lots shall vary in size throughout the entire development. Houses shall be
varied within the development so that no two dwellings on adjacent lots shall
have the same external appearance, giving due consideration to structural
components and design variations.
   (C)   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
MDR - MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
§ 152.011 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone is to
provide single family residential housing with medium density.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.012 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single family detached dwellings with only the following accessory
uses:
      (1)   Garages;
      (2)   Pools;
      (3)   Tennis courts;
      (4)   Cabanas;
      (5)   Sheds; or
      (6)   Similar uses incidental to the primary residential use.
   (B)   Public parks, playgrounds and active and passive recreation uses, with
only the following accessory uses:
      (1)   Accessory buildings necessary for the operation and maintenance of
the primary use.
      (2)   On-site parking areas.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.013 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Home businesses.
      (1)   Conditions for use:
         (a)   The gross floor area devoted to home business use shall not
exceed the lesser of 250 square feet or 10% of the total gross floor living
area of the residential property.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be provided for the home business in
addition to the spaces required for the residential use, provided that no more
than two additional spaces are provided, and further provided that only one
business vehicle combined with a trailer, if any, which shall not exceed 8,000
pounds registered vehicle weight, shall be permitted to park at the residential
property.
         (c)   No more than one nonresident employee shall be permitted.
         (d)   No goods, materials, supplies or items of any kind may be
delivered either to or from the premises, except in a passenger vehicle owned
by the resident, and no products, materials, supplies, equipment, goods or
other items may be stored on or about the exterior of the property or on or in
an open truck or trailer.
         (e)   No client, customer, patient or patron shall be permitted to be
upon the premises for business or professional purposes.
         (f)   No retail or wholesale sales products or materials shall be
permitted on the premises for business or professional purposes.
         (g)   No sign identifying or advertising the home business shall be
permitted.
         (h)   A certificate of conformance shall be required for the floor
area devoted to the home business.
      (2)   No accessory uses are permitted.
   (B)   Schools, churches, chapels, synagogues or similar houses of worship,
convents and monasteries.
      (1)   Conditions for use.
         (a)   Minimum tract size: one acre
         (b)   Minimum parking setbacks:
            1.   35 feet from county or state right-of-way;
            2.   25 feet from any residentially zoned property;
            3.   20 feet from municipal right-of-way;
            4.   20 feet from rear property line;
            5.   10 feet from side property lines; provided, however, zero feet
shall be required when cross-easements for parking are provided.
         (c)   Minimum buffer width and location: 15 feet within the setback
areas adjacent to parking areas and outdoor recreation facilities from any
residentially zoned property.
         (d)   All utilities must be located underground;
         (e)   Minimum side yard building setback: 25 feet.
         (f)   Such additional restrictions or conditions as the reviewing
board may impose in order to control the effect of noise, traffic movement and
volume, lighting, and/or the intensity of such conditional use on adjacent land
uses. The reviewing board may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure
compliance with such restrictions or conditions.
      (2)   Development review requirements.
         (a)   Site plan review approval must be obtained from the reviewing
board with jurisdiction, pursuant to
Chapter 156 of the Township Code.
         (b)   Such conditional use must include sight lighting and landscaping
and the design of all required buffers must comply with
Chapter 154 of the Township Code.
      (3)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   For public and private non-profit schools:
            1.   Parks and playgrounds; and
            2.   Accessory buildings necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the primary use.
         (b)   For all other primary conditional uses permitted above, rectory
or parish houses.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.014 DENSITY.
   (A)   The maximum density permitted in the MDR-Medium Density Residential
Zone for single- family detached dwellings shall be 1.5 units per acre. The
base density may be increased up to 2.0 units per acre in the discretion of the
reviewing board which shall take into consideration the reports and evidenced
adduced at the public hearing on any application for development approval and
the effect of the increase in density on the public health, safety and general
welfare and particularly, but not in limitation therefore, the following
factors:
      (1)   Soil erosion by water and wind.
      (2)   Drainage and storm water management matters.
      (3)   The availability of sanitary sewer.
      (4)   The affect on the water table and/or aquifer.
      (5)   Soil fertility.
      (6)   Traffic impacts on surrounding development and road ways.
      (7)   Residential site improvement standards (RSIS).
      (8)   Such other factors as may bear upon or relate to the coordinated,
adjusted and harmonious physical development of the township and any
environmental impact thereon.
   (B)   In the event that the reviewing board makes a determination that the
applicant may be permitted to increase the base density up to 2.0 units per
acre, then in such case, the applicant shall be required to pay $25,000 per
added unit as a result of this increase in density which shall be paid into the
Township Open Space Fund as compensation for added property being subdivided
and lost as open area at the time of final subdivision approval. Despite the
foregoing, any lot existing as of April 12, 1999, or subject to the protection
provided under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1, et seq. which otherwise conforms to the area
and bulk standards of the MDR-Medium Density Residential Zone, will not be
deemed non- conforming as to density. The subdivision of any vacant land in the
MDR-Medium Density Residential Zone from and after April 12, 1999 must conform
to the maximum density requirements of the MDR-Medium Density Residential Zone
as provided for in this section.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 186-11,
passed 4-26-11)
§ 152.015 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size:
      (1)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in R75
sections of MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 9.750 square feet.
      (2)   For all other properties: 15,000 square feet, except in major
subdivisions where at most 20% of the total number of lots may be a minimum
size of 12,500 square feet, so long as at least 20% of the total number of lots
are 17,500 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage:
      (1)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in R75
sections of MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 75 feet
      (2)   For all other properties: 100 feet, except that lot frontage may be
measured at the front yard setback line on curvilinear streets, including cul-
de-sacs.
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 120 feet
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet from any county or state right-of-way;
         (b)    Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in
the R75, R100 and RD2 sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 30
feet from any other right-of-way.
         (c)   For all other properties: 35 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet from any county or state right-of-way for reverse
frontage lots;
         (b)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in
the R100 and RD2 sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 25 feet
from any other rear property line.
         (c)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in
the R75 sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 20 feet from any
other rear property line.
         (d)   For all other properties: 35 feet from any other rear property
line.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet except as follows:
         (a)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in
the R100B sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone, one side may
be ten feet so long as the total of both side yards equals 25 feet or more as
shown on the original survey.
         (b)   29 feet for side entry garages; provided that the setback
otherwise applicable to the dwelling shall apply to all other portions of the
dwelling located to the rear of the garage.
         (c)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in
the R75 sections of the MDR – Medium Density Residential Zone: 10 feet.
         (d)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in
the RD2 sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone, one side may be
ten feet so long as the total of both side yards equals 30 feet or more.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: two and one half stories but not to exceed
35 feet.
   (F)   Minimum backyard area:
      (1)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in the
R100 and RD2 sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 25 feet.
      (2)   Only for dwellings existing as of September 1, 1999 located in the
R75 sections of the MDR - Medium Density Residential Zone: 20 feet.
      (3)   For all other properties: 35 feet.
   (G)   Maximum impervious coverage: 45% of total lot area.
   (H)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing board to
promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (I)   Minimum open space requirement.  Subdivisions of 10 acres or larger
shall set aside a minimum of 20% of the gross tract acreage for open space, of
which a maximum of 50% may be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection. Upon request, the Planning Board may
allow an applicant to provide, in lieu of some or all of the required open
space, additional active recreational facilities to be installed, on site or
off site, as specifically approved by the Planning Board, in such amount and
location as the Planning Board in its discretion shall require.
   (J)   Other requirements: All developments of 25 acres or larger shall
provide active recreation designed for the primary use of the development’s
residents, unless the reviewing board finds that the characteristics of the
site dictate passive recreation as a better use for such development.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.016 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following regulations shall apply unless, after due consideration of
plans, testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board waives strict
compliance with these requirements in order to further the purposes of this
zoning district:
   (A)   Landscaping. Each lot to be developed shall contain at least two shade
trees a minimum of three inches in caliper and shall meet the minimum standards
set by the American Nurseryman's Association. The reviewing board shall reserve
the right to require additional shade trees given the natural condition of the
land to be subdivided.
   (B)   Lot arrangement and housing type. Lots shall be arranged such that lot
size shall vary in size throughout the entire development. Houses shall be
varied within the development so that no two dwellings on adjacent lots shall
have the same external appearance, giving due consideration to structural
components and design variations.
   (C)   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
R10 - RESIDENTIAL 10
§ 152.021 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the R-10 - Residence 10 Zone is to provide, in a
multi-family development, housing opportunities for all segments of the
population and to promote the goals and objectives of the Fair Housing Act.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.022 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Multi-family dwellings in a townhouse or garden apartment (one unit
above another) configuration sold, leased and/or occupied in accordance with §§
153.001 through
153.028, Affordable Housing.
   (B)   Public parks, playgrounds, active and passive recreation and accessory
buildings necessary for the maintenance and operations of the primary use.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.023 DENSITY.
   The maximum density in the R-10 - Residence 10 Zone is 10 units per acre.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.024 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: 10 acres.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 400 feet.
   (C)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of-way;
         (b)   75 feet from any county right-of-way;
         (c)   50 feet from any municipal right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback: 50 feet.
   (D)   Maximum height limitation: 35 feet.
   (E)   Minimum backyard area: 50 feet.
   (F)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (G)   Maximum clearing unit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing board to
promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum parking setbacks:
      (1)   35 feet from any state or county right-of-way.
      (2)   20 feet from any other right-of-way or interior drive and from any
other property line.
   (I)   Minimum distance between buildings:
      (1)   50 feet from the front or back of any structure to any other
structure.
      (2)   30 feet from the side of any structure to any other structure.
   (J)   All development in any designated R-10 - Residence 10 Zone shall
provide adequate active and passive recreation designed for the primary use of
the development's residents in accordance with the following regulations:
      (1)   Active recreation, playground. A minimum area of 1,500 square feet,
plus 10 square feet for each dwelling unit, shall be provided and so designed
to provide an active recreational facility for the primary use of persons aged
10 years or younger and shall include, at a minimum, swings, a climber, a
seating area for adult supervision and other similar equipment. The area shall
be fenced with a material compatible with the overall architectural scheme of
the development. The recreational area shall be centrally located so as to
provide equivalent access to all dwellings units.
      (2)   Active recreation adult. A minimum area of 1,500 square feet shall
be provided up to the first 10 units and 150 square feet per unit for
developments of 11 dwelling units or greater. A jogging and walking path, a
minimum width of five feet, shall be provided around the perimeter of the site
and shall be connected to the pedestrian circulation system. Developments in
excess of 100 dwelling units shall provide, at a minimum, a swimming pool,
tennis court or similar recreational facility which shall be centrally located
to provide nearly equal access from the furthest dwelling units.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.025 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all development in the R-10 -
Residence 10 Zone unless, after due consideration of plans, testimony or other
submissions, the reviewing board waives strict compliance with any one or more
of these standards in order to promote more flexibility in site design and
greater architectural interest and to further the intent and purpose of this
Chapter.
   (A)   Lighting. No light fixture, whether pole or wall mounted, shall be
greater than 18 feet in height.
   (B)   Landscaping. All public street frontages and project entrance drives,
shall be planted with approved street trees spaced a maximum of 50 feet apart.
   (C)   Building façades. The façade of the structures shall be varied in such
a manner than no more than two townhouses and no more than four garden
apartments shall share the same façade at the building line. Façades shall be
uniform architecturally and shall not consist of disparate materials.
Individual dwellings shall be distinguished from each other only by
landscaping, lighting and variation in the building line.
   (D)   Laundry Facilities. Adequate laundering and drying facilities for
clothing shall be provided within each structure sufficient to serve its
occupants, unless such facilities are individually provided for each dwelling
unit.
   (E)   Pedestrian circulation. A pedestrian circulation system shall be
provided which connects parking areas, dwellings and recreational facilities in
a coherent and comprehensive pattern. The pedestrian walkway shall be
adequately illuminated at night and be surfaced with a durable, dustless, all-
weather material a minimum width of five feet.
   (F)   Trash enclosures. Trash enclosures shall be provided such that no
disposal area is greater than 200 feet from the entrance of any dwelling unit
unless individual trash storage areas are provided for each dwelling unit.
Trash and recycling pick-up may only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any State or Federal regulations.
   (G)   Units in structure. No more than eight townhouse or 16 garden
apartment dwelling units shall be contained in any one structure.
   (H)   Utilities. All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 1-24-00)
CR - CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL
§ 152.031 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the CR - Cluster Residential Zone is to provide
residential housing in environmentally sensitive areas while preserving a
special resource for the benefit of the public good. Continuing Care Retirement
Community (CCRC) uses shall be encouraged, subject to the future adoption of
appropriate controls in accordance with the Master Plan policies for this
district.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.032 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single family detached dwellings with only the following accessory
uses:
      (1)   Garages;
      (2)   Swimming pools;
      (3)   Tennis courts;
      (4)   Cabanas;
      (5)   Sheds; and
      (6)   Similar uses incidental to the primary residential use.
   (B)   Golf courses with only the following accessory uses:
      (1)   Swimming pools;
      (2)   Tennis courts;
      (3)   Other hard surfaced court games;
      (4)   Lawn courts or other similar outdoor recreation uses;
      (5)   Golf pro shop;
      (6)   Restaurant or snack bar; and
      (7)   Accessory buildings necessary for the maintenance and operation of
the primary use.
   (C)   Passive outdoor recreation facilities and parks and playgrounds with
only those accessory buildings necessary for the operation and maintenance of
the primary use.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.033 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Multi-family housing; either in attached townhome configuration (fee
simple, condominium or cooperative development or apartments) or garden
apartment configuration.
      (1)   Conditions of use.
         (a)   Minimum tract size: 10 acres
         (b)   Minimum track frontage: 400 feet
         (c)   Minimum setbacks requirements:
            1.   Minimum front yard setback: 75 feet
            2.   Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet
            3.   Minimum side yard setback: 50 feet
         (d)   Maximum height limitation: 50 feet
         (e)   Minimum distance between buildings:
            1.   50 feet from the front or back of any structure to any other
structure.
            2.   30 feet from the side of any structure.
            3.   For fee simple townhome style developments; the minimum side
yard setback between units within the same building that share a common side
wall is zero feet.
         (f)   Minimum backyard area: 50 feet.
         (g)   Minimum parking setbacks: 35 feet from any county road and 20
feet from any municipal street or private internal roadway or drive.
         (h)   Minimum buffer width and location requirement: 25 feet within
the setback from any residentially zoned property.
      (2)   Development review requirements:
         (a)   The following regulations shall apply to all developments of
multi-family residential conditional uses in the CR-Cluster Residential Zone,
unless after due considerations of plans, testimony and other submissions, the
reviewing board waives strict compliance with the requirements of this section
in order to promote the purposes of this chapter:
            1.   Façades. The façade of each structure shall be varied in such
manner that no more than two townhouses and no more than four garden apartments
shall share the same façade at the building line. Façades shall be uniform
architecturally and shall not consist of disparate materials. Individual
dwellings shall be distinguished from each other only by landscaping, lighting
and variation in the building line.
            2.   Laundry facilities. Adequate laundering and drying facilities
for clothing shall be provided within each structure sufficient to serve its
occupants, unless such facilities are provided for each dwelling unit.
            3.   Pedestrian circulation. A pedestrian circulation system shall
be provided which connects parking areas, dwellings and recreational facilities
in a coherent and comprehensive pattern. The pedestrian walkway shall be
adequately illuminated at night and be surfaced with a durable, dustless, all
weather material a minimum width of five feet.
            4.   Trash enclosures. Trash enclosures shall be provided such that
no disposal area is greater than 200 feet from the entrance of any dwelling
unit, unless individual trash storage areas are provided for each dwelling
unit.  Trash and recycling pick-up may only occur between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any State or Federal
regulations.
            5.   Units in structure. No more than eight townhouse or 16 garden
apartment dwelling units shall be contained in any one structure.
         (b)   Certificate of conformance. A certificate of conformance shall
be required for each dwelling unit and shall be issued only when the name,
business address and telephone number of the manager, building or project
supervisor or other agent responsible for the operation of the development is
furnished to the Zoning Officer.
         (c)   No residential buildings in excess of the lesser of two and one
half stories or 35 feet in height shall be located within 100 feet of any
property located in a residential zone other than the CR - Cluster Residential
Zone.
         (d)   No development approvals shall be granted for developments
governed by this subsection unless the application and plans submitted
therewith propose no interconnection of streets in such development with
streets in any development zoned for any thing other than CR - Cluster
Residential.
      (3)   All development in the CR-Cluster Residential Zone which includes
multi-family development as a conditional use shall include active and passive
recreation designed, for the primary use of the development's residents, as an
accessory use, in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Active recreation, playground. A minimum area of 1,500 square
feet, plus ten square feet for each dwelling unit, shall be provided and so
designed to provide an active recreational facility for the primary use of
persons aged ten years or younger and shall include, at a minimum, swings, a
climber, a seating area for adult supervision and other similar equipment. The
area shall be fenced with a material compatible with the overall architectural
scheme of the development. The recreational area shall be centrally located so
as to provide equivalent access to all dwellings units.
         (b)   Active recreation adult. A minimum area of 1,500 square feet
shall be provided up to the first ten units and 150 square feet per unit for
developments of 11 dwelling units or greater. A jogging and walking path, a
minimum width of five feet, shall be provided around the perimeter of the site
and shall be connected to the pedestrian circulation system. Developments in
excess of 100 dwelling units shall provide, at a minimum, a swimming pool,
tennis court or similar recreational facility which shall be centrally located
to provide nearly equal access from the furthest dwelling units.
   (B)   Conference center.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   Minimum tract size: 50 acres.
         (b)   Permitted uses: hotels (including a maximum of 10% floor area of
retail), restaurants, meeting and conference facilities, office buildings for a
maximum of 25% of the gross floor area, accessory uses such as parking,
maintenance buildings and the like.
         (c)   Maximum intensity of development:
            1.   Building cover of 25%.
            2.   Total cover of 60%.
            3.   F.A.R. of 1.0.
      (2)   Bulk requirements.
         (a)   Perimeter buffer: 50 ft. maximum.
         (b)   Minimum dimensions:
            1.   Front yard: 100 ft.
            2.   Side yard: 75 ft.
            3.   Rear yard: 10 ft.
            4.   Building to building: 50 ft. plus 1 ft. for every foot in
height over 35 ft. of the tallest building.
         (c)   Maximum height: 50 ft. plus 1 ft. of setback additional to
minimum.
         (d)   Parking setback:
            1.   To residential uses and zones: 50 ft.
            2.   To all other uses: 15 ft.
      (3)   Design guidelines. See §
152.070.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 85-06,
passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 90-06, passed 7-24-06)
§ 152.034 DENSITY.
   The maximum density in the CR-Cluster Residential Zone shall be 1.4 units
per acre.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.035 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: 15,000 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet. On curvilinear streets, including cul-
de-sacs, the lot frontage shall be measured from the front yard setback line.
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.
   (D)   Setbacks requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   75 feet from any county right-of- way;
         (b)   35 feet from any other right-of- way;
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Reverse frontage lots adjacent to a county road, 75 feet.
         (b)   In all other cases, 35 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet except as follows:
         (a)   29 feet for side entry garages; provided that the setback
otherwise applicable to the dwelling shall apply to all other portions of the
dwelling located to the rear of the garage.
   (E)   Minimum buffer width and location requirement: 25 feet within the
applicable setback between any non-residential use and any residentially zoned
property other than property in the CR – Cluster Residential Zone.
   (F)   Maximum height limitation: 35 feet.
   (G)   Minimum backyard area: 30 feet.
   (H)   Maximum impervious coverage: 45%.
   (I)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the tract area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (J)   Open space requirement: A minimum of 40% of the total site area shall
be deed restricted from further development in order to preserve a significant
amenity of the tract as identified in the Master Plan of the Township. Of the
40%, no more than 50% shall be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection. The open space shall be contiguous and
to the greatest extent possible centrally located to the residential uses. A
minimum of 200 contiguous feet of the open space shall front on a municipal
right-of-way or entrance or internal collector drive. An open space
organization shall be created pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-43 et seq., unless
the open space is dedicated and accepted by the Township, however, nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to require the Township to accept such open
space. The open space requirements of this section shall not include any
parcels of land which are separated from the rest of the development by any
county road or right-of-way.
(Am. Ord. 1-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.036 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All public street frontages and project entrance drives shall be
planted with approved street trees planted a maximum of 50 feet apart on
center.
   (B)   All utilities servicing the development shall be located underground.
   (C)   All development in the CR-Cluster Residential Zone shall be designed
to cluster the development towards a county road or right-of-way so as to
preserve as much as possible of the interior of the tract as undeveloped open
space.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
SH - SENIOR HOUSING
§ 152.041 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the SH - Senior Housing Zone is to provide
flexibility to develop adult retirement housing and related facilities.
(Ord. 946-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.042 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single family detached or attached residential dwelling units that are
occupied by Senior Citizens. A maximum of one child age 18 years or older may
also reside as a permanent resident with his/her parent or parents; provided,
however, that there shall be no more than three permanent residents in any one
residential dwelling unit.
      (1)   Permitted accessory uses:
         (a)   Garages;
         (b)   Recreational facilities for the sole use of the senior housing
community and guests;
         (c)   Off-street parking;
         (d)   Maintenance/equipment buildings for common areas;
         (e)   Gate houses; and
         (f)   Invisible fences.
      (2)   Prohibited accessory uses:
         (a)   Individual sheds;
         (b)   Fences;
         (c)   Individual swimming pools; and
         (d)   Gazebos.
   (B)   Golf courses, chip and putt, miniature golf, driving range and related
facilities, along with appurtenant accessory uses.
   (C)   Comprehensive retirement communities and comprehensive retirement
community accessory uses.
(Ord. 946-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.043 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Offices of a recognized profession, including, but not limited to, medicine,
social services, finance, accounting, insurance, real estate, law, engineering,
architecture and planning (but not to include other licensed occupations, such
as barbering, general contracting or public movers), banks chartered under
state or federal law, restaurants, hotels, indoor athletic facilities, and
offices of a public or quasi-public entity, including, but not limited to,
local, state or federal offices, public utility offices, armed services
offices, school board and school district offices or similar uses, if the
following conditions are met:
   (A)   Maximum height limitation is 20 feet; provided, however, the height
may be increased to 45 feet for buildings or structures that are located within
300 feet from the intersection of two municipal roads or a municipal road and a
county road, such roads existing as of September 1, 1999.
   (B)   A traffic impact study which adequately demonstrates the amount of
traffic to be generated from the proposed office use and the capacity of the
existing roadway network within the Township to absorb the expected traffic
must be submitted. Such study must clearly demonstrate finding of no
significant impact, or a measures to be taken to alleviate the expected traffic
impact, which measures must be acceptable to the reviewing board.
   (C)   All structures containing any use permitted under this section, except
for offices of recognized professions, including, but not limited to, medicine,
social services, finance, accounting, insurance, real estate, law, engineering,
architecture and planning (but not to include other licensed occupations, such
as barbering, general contracting or public movers), shall be a minimum of 300
feet from any property located in a residential zone other than the SH-Senior
Housing Zone.
(Ord. 946-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 965-99, passed 12-13-99)
§ 152.044 DENSITY.
   (A)   The maximum permitted residential density for single family detached
or attached dwellings shall be four dwelling units per acre.
   (B)   Maximum permitted density for Comprehensive Retirement Communities
shall be 10 units per acre, distributed in accordance with the design standards
set forth in §
152.046 below.
(Ord. 946-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.045 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   For all uses except single family detached or attached dwelling units,
the following area and bulk standards shall apply:
      (1)   Minimum tract size: 45 acres.
      (2)   Minimum tract frontage: 1,000 feet.
      (3)   Minimum tract depth: 500 feet at its deepest point and 200 feet at
all other points.
      (4)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback: 50 feet.
         (b)   Minimum sideyard setback:
            1.   100 feet from any property located in a residential zone other
than the SH - Senior Housing Zone.
            2.   50 feet for all other property.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback:
            1.   100 feet from any property located in a residential zone other
than the SH - Senior Housing Zone.
            2.   50 feet for all other property.
      (5)   Minimum buffer width and location: 50 feet within the setback from
any property located in a residential zone other than the SH - Senior Housing
Zone.
      (6)   Maximum height limitation: two and one half stories but not to
exceed 35 feet, provided, however, the maximum height may be increased up to a
maximum height of 55 feet if the distance from any property located in a
residential zone other than the SH - Senior Housing Zone to the building or
structure in excess of 45 feet high is at least the minimum setback required
under §§
152.045(A)(4)(b)1. and
152.045(A)(4)(c)1. above as applicable plus an amount equal to 10 feet for each
foot in height above 45 feet, up to a maximum permitted height of 55 feet.
Intervening buildings or structures meeting the maximum 45 foot height
requirement are permitted.
      (7)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
      (8)   Minimum parking setbacks:
         (a)   100 feet from any property located in a residential zone other
than the SH - Senior Housing Zone;
         (b)   50 feet from any state right-of-way;
         (c)   25 feet from any other right-of-way or any rear property line;
and
         (d)   12.5 feet from any side property line except that, where cross
easements are provided, zero feet shall be required.
      (9)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
      (10)   Minimum distance between buildings: 30 feet or the average height
of adjacent buildings, whichever is greater.
   (B)   For single family detached or attached residential dwellings
restricted to occupancy by senior citizens:
      (1)   For the total tract:
         (a)   Minimum tract area: 10 acres.
         (b)   Minimum tract frontage: 200 feet.
         (c)   Setbacks:
            1.   Minimum front yard setbacks:
               a.   75 feet from county or state right-of-way;
               b.   50 feet from all other right-of-ways.
            2.   Minimum rear and side yard setbacks at the tract borders.
               a.   From adjacent properties zoned for or developed as single
family detached housing: 70 feet.
               b.   From adjacent properties zoned for or developed as any
other residential use: 50 feet.
               c.   From adjacent property zoned for or developed as non-
residential use (other than municipal facilities): 50 feet
               d.   From adjacent property developed as municipal facilities:
35 feet.
         (d)   Minimum buffer width and location: 35 feet within the setback
from any property located in a residential zone other than the SH - Senior
Housing Zone.
      (5)   Minimum backyard area: 50 feet.
      (6)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
      (7)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
         (h)   Minimum Open Space requirement: A minimum of 20% of the entire
tract must be designated as open space and no more than 50% of such designated
open space may be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection.
      (2)   For each individual lot:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 5,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 50 feet.
         (c)   Setbacks:
            1.   Minimum front yard setback: 20 feet.
            2.   Rear minimum rear yard setback: 15 feet.
            3.   Minimum side yard setback: 7.5 feet; provided, however, that
in developments of 20 or more lots, a maximum of 25% of the total number of
lots may have a side yard of five feet with both sides having an aggregate
total of 15 feet.
         (d)   Maximum height limitation: 35 feet.
         (e)   Minimum backyard area: 15 feet.
         (f)   Maximum impervious coverage: 55%.
(Ord. 946-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.046 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following regulations apply to all development in the SH - Senior
Housing Zone unless, after due consideration of plans, testimony and other
submissions, the reviewing board waives strict compliance with these
requirements in order to further the architectural relationship of building
groups:
      (1)   A minimum of 50 feet from the front or back of any structure to any
other structure, other than between single-family dwellings; and
      (2)   A minimum of 30 feet from the side of any structure to any other
structure, other than between single family dwellings.
   (B)   Social and recreational facilities for senior housing shall reflect,
insofar as possible, preferences of the anticipated residents, and indoor
facilities for such uses may include hobby or craft facilities, lounging areas
which may also be used for meetings and group activities, card rooms and
lavatories. Outdoor facilities for senior housing may include walks,
shuffleboard and horseshoe courts, tennis courts and a swimming pool.
   (C)   Indoor social, cultural, recreational and meeting facilities shall be
required in any senior housing development for the use and enjoyment of the
residents of the development.
   (D)   Appropriate passive outdoor recreational areas shall be provided and
shall include suitable landscaping. These areas shall be suitable for sitting
and walking and may include shuffleboard courts, game tables and/or bicycle
trails. Passive outdoor recreational areas shall be at least 25% of the
required open space.
   (E)   The SH - Senior Housing Zone shall be exempt from the provisions which
restrict walkways,
paths and park benches in the setback areas but such improvements are not
permitted in the buffer areas.
   (F)   Topsoil shall not be removed from the site during construction but
shall be stored and redistributed to areas most exposed to view, and such areas
shall be stabilized by seeding and planting. This requirement may be waived by
the Township Committee.
   (G)   Interior streets, parking areas, dwelling entrances, pedestrian walks
and any recreation area which is to be used for any nighttime activity shall be
provided with sufficient illumination so as to minimize hazards to persons
using the same and shall, where necessary, be shielded to avoid glare that
might be disturbing to occupants of buildings or properties within and without
the SH - Senior Housing Zone and project.
   (H)   Every senior housing portion of a project within the SH - Senior
Housing Zone shall contain common open space as follows:
      (1)   With respect to any common open space created as part of the SH -
Senior Housing Zone, the landowner or developer shall provide and establish an
organization for the ownership and maintenance of any such common open space
for the use and benefit of the residents of the SH - Senior Housing Zone,
including the commercial and other non-residential uses contained within the SH
-Senior Housing Zone.
      (2)   The common open space within each section shall be dedicated free
and clear of debt to such organization within one year after the issuance of
95% of the certificates of occupancy of that section or immediately upon
issuance of the last certificate of occupancy of that section. In the event
that the applicant fails to comply with this provisions, no further building
permits and/or certificates of occupancy for said project in the SH -Senior
Housing Zone shall be issued. This provision shall not be construed to prevent
the applicant from starting other sections prior to the completion of 95% of
current sections.
   (I)   All public street frontages and project entrance drives shall be
planted with approved street trees spaced a maximum of 50 feet apart.
   (J)   All utilities shall be underground.
   (K)   The development shall have an overall coordinated design scheme with
internal circulation and appropriate access easements providing ready access to
all of the proposed uses. Access to the business development portion of the
tract may be separate from the access to the permanent recreation portion of
the development. Site elements such as signage and lighting standards shall be
complimentary to the building design. Outdoor areas shall include sidewalk
treatment, trash receptacles, recycling receptacles, benches, planters and the
like.
   (L)   The site plan architectural features shall adequately consider impact
on adjacent existing land uses.
   (M)   If the entire development will not be owned and managed by one entity,
a commercial property owners' association must be established. The declaration
of restrictions creating such association and determining the rights and
obligations of each property owner within the development must be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Board Solicitor before final site plan approval may be
granted. At a minimum, the declaration shall control and regulate future land
use, utility access, parking and access easements and responsibility for
maintenance of buildings and site amenities and improvements. The declaration
must contain a provision giving the Township an easement to complete any
maintenance and repairs, if it chooses, which the association, after notice,
fails to complete and to assess each property owner for all costs and expenses
incurred by the Township with respect to such maintenance and repairs.
   (N)   The distribution of units in a Comprehensive Retirement Community
between the types of uses shall be as follows:
      (1)   No more than 35% of the total units may be contained in independent
living apartments.
      (2)   No more than 20% of the total units may be contained in an assisted
living facility.
      (3)   No more than 30% of the total units may be contained in a skilled
care nursery facility.
      (4)   The balance of the units must be developed as single family
detached or attached dwelling units.
      (5)   Strict compliance with the allocation standards set forth in §§
152.046(N)(1) and
152.046(N)(1), (2), (3) and (4) above may be waived by the reviewing board upon
demonstration by the applicant that deviation from such standards will cause no
increase in the intensity of use and traffic generated by the total
development.
(Ord. 946-99, passed 9-13-99)
O1 - OFFICE 1
§ 152.051 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the O1-Office 1 Zone is to provide for office uses
on small lots and which shall create a transition zone between residential uses
and more intensive commercial or industrial uses.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.052 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Offices of a recognized profession, including but not limited to
medicine, social services, finance, accounting, insurance, real estate, law,
engineering, architecture and planning, but not to include other licensed
occupations, such as barbering, general contracting or public movers.
   (B)   Banks chartered under state or federal law.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.053 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Administrative offices of commercial and industrial partnerships,
companies or corporations are permitted as conditional uses in the O1-Office 1
Zone if the conditions in §
152.053(B) below are met.
      (1)   No sales of a retail or wholesale nature shall be permitted on the
premises.
      (2)   No warehousing or storage of materials or equipment, including the
storage of vehicles, other than the incidental storage of office supplies or
records, shall be permitted on the premises.
   (B)   Farming provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 5 acres.
      (2)   No additional clearing of vegetation other than grass may occur for
such use.
      (3)   No retail sales permitted from the lot (i.e. farm stands) unless
and until final site plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156 has been granted for such retail use and only if retail uses are
otherwise permitted in the zone.
   (C)   Special Business and Service Overlay District.
      (1)   There shall be a Special Business and Service Overlay District
within the O1 (Office) Zoning District, the boundaries of which shall be shown
on the Zoning Map of the Township of Voorhees, and includes such properties
identified by Block and Lot in Ordinance No. 266-15.
      (2)   The following businesses and/or uses shall be permitted within the
Special Business and Service Overlay District:
         (a)   Barber and beauty shop operations;
         (b)   Catering and related food services;
         (c)   Radio and electrical repairing;
         (d)   Nail and skin care establishments; and
         (e)   Offices for businesses and/or contractors within the building
trades.
      (3)   Conditions of uses.
         (a)   No outdoor storage of materials, other than equipment and/or
vehicles, is permitted unless within a designated fenced-in area approved by
the reviewing board.
         (b)   No truck or large vehicles may enter or exit or run idle on the
property between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Friday,
nor between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekends or holidays.
      (4)   Area and bulk standards. The area and bulk requirements of
permitted uses in the O1 (Office) Zoning District shall apply.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 07-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 373-
20, passed 11-9-20)
§ 152.054 DENSITY.
   No residential dwelling units shall be permitted in the O1-Office 1 Zone.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.055 BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: 12,500 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet.
   (C)   Setbacks:
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   50 feet from any county right-of-way.
         (c)   30 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   75 feet from any residentially zoned property.
         (b)   30 feet from any other property.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   75 feet from any residentially zoned property.
         (b)   10 feet from any other property.
   (D)   Minimum buffer width and location: 25 feet within the setback from any
residentially zoned property.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: two and one half stories, not to exceed 35
feet.
   (F)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (G)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing board to
promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum parking setbacks:
      (1)   Front yard setbacks:
         (a)   50 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   20 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (2)   25 feet from any residentially zoned property.
      (3)   15 feet from any other rear property line.
      (4)   10 feet from any other side property line except that zero feet may
be permitted where cross easements for parking are provided and maintained.
   (I)   A minimum of 25% of entire tract on which the development being
proposed will be completed shall be set aside as contiguous open space. Of the
25%, no more than 50% shall be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.056 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All utilities shall be located underground unless, after due consideration
of plans, testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board waives strict
compliance with the requirements of this section in order to promote the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
O3 - OFFICE 3 ZONE
§ 152.061 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the O3-Office 3 Zone is to provide for attractive
large lot office, light manufacturing, research and professional office
complexes to encourage the development of a well-rounded pattern of land use
appropriate to the township.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.062 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Primary uses:
      (1)   Offices of recognized professions, including, but not limited to,
medicine, social services, finance, accounting, insurance, real estate, law,
computer technology, counseling and consulting, engineering, architecture and
planning, but not to include other licensed occupations such as barbering,
general contracting or public movers; and offices of public or quasi-public
entity, including, but not limited to, local, state or federal offices, public
utility offices, armed services offices, school board and school district
offices or similar uses.
      (2)   Banks chartered under state or federal law.
      (3)   Hotels.
      (4)   Indoor athletic facilities.
      (5)   Restaurants, excluding fast food.
      (6)   Wholesaling, warehousing and distributing, excluding retail or
wholesale sale of lumber, ice, coal, petroleum, quarried or mined material or
similar bulk materials.
      (7)   Self service public storage facilities.
      (8)   Daycare and pre-school facilities.
      (9)   Banquet and conference facilities.
   (B)   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be permitted on the
same lot as the primary use:
      (1)   Cafeterias which are integral and incorporated into the primary
building.
      (2)   Security watch stations which may contain cooking and sleeping
accommodations which are integral and incorporated into the primary building.
      (3)   Repair facilities for the maintenance of vehicles used in the
operation of the primary use.
      (4)   Storage garages for vehicles used in the operation of the primary
use.
      (5)   Parking garages and multi-level parking structures shall be
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The maximum height limitation shall be 60% of the height of the
principal structure, but in no event shall the height be greater than five
levels of parking above grade, including any rooftop parking as one level.
         (b)   Ramps for the movement of vehicles between parking levels shall
be located entirely within the parking structure. No parking structure shall be
permitted helical ramps.
         (c)   Parking structures shall be designed to minimize blank concrete
facades through the use of innovative architectural detail and shall achieve a
compatibility with the principal structure to the extent that the parking
facility shall be clearly identified with the principal use.
         (d)   To the greatest extent possible, the first level of parking
shall be located below grade to minimize the impact of the structure on
adjacent land uses.
         (e)   Any parking structures containing 800 parking spaces or more
shall provide a pedestrian walkway grade separated from any entrance or
internal collector drive and which connects the parking facility with the
principal structure or structures served.
      (6)   Parking structures shall be located in the rear yards of the
principal structure the facility is designed to serve. In the event that a lot
fronts on two or more public streets, the parking structure shall be located in
the rear yard of the principal street frontage.
      (7)   Parking structures shall conform to the minimum setback
requirements of § 152.065 below with the added provision that, for every 10
feet or portion thereof in excess of 30 feet in height, all yard setbacks (with
respect to the parking structure only) shall be increased by 10 feet.
   (C)   All uses in the O3 - Office 3 Zone shall be subject to the restriction
that no exterior warehousing or storage of materials or equipment, including
the storage of vehicles shall be permitted on the premises.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 22-00, passed 9-11-00)
§ 152.063 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   General conditional uses.
      (1)   Light industrial, provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All facilities for the manufacturing of the product shall be
contained within the building.
         (b)   No vibration shall be permitted beyond the building line.
         (c)   No noise greater than 70 dBa's, measured at the lot line, shall
be permitted to be generated.
         (d)   No manufacturing process shall be permitted if it is noxious or
offensive by reason of odor, dust, fumes, gas, smoke or radiation or that
constitutes a public hazard by fire, explosion or other nuisance.
         (e)   No trucks or large vehicles may enter or exit or run idle on the
property between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. each day.
      (2)   Churches, chapels, synagogues or similar houses of worship,
including, as accessory uses, rectory or parish houses, provided that the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   Location. All developments pursuant to this section must have
its primary frontage and access on a county road.
         (b)   Maximum height limitation: 35 feet.
         (c)   The Reviewing Board may impose more restrictive conditions or
any further reasonable conditions to the effect of noise, traffic movement and
volume, lighting and/or intensity of such conditional activities on adjacent
land uses and may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure compliance with such
restrictions or conditions.
      (3)   Farming provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 5 acres.
         (b)   No additional clearing of vegetation other than grass may occur.
         (c)   No retail sales permitted from the lot (i.e. farm stands) unless
and until the final site plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156 has been granted for such retail use and only if retail uses are
otherwise permitted in the zone.
   (B)   TC-1 Overlay District conditional uses.
      (1)   Permitted conditional uses.
         (a)   Shopping centers and retail commercial uses.
         (b)   Theaters.
      (2)   Condition of use.
         (a)   Theaters may be freestanding uses, and must be part of a retail
or office complex that has frontage on and access to a county road.
      (3)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Gasoline filling stations.
         (b)   Non-accessory parking garages.
         (c)   Except as specifically provided above, motor vehicle repair/
service shops.
         (d)   Showrooms for the sale of new or used automobiles.
         (e)   Convenience stores.
         (f)   Passenger bus stations.
         (g)   Residential uses, except for-profit assisted living and skilled
nursing facilities.
      (4)   Area and bulk standards applicable to conditional use.
         (a)   Minimum lot size: four acres.
         (b)   Minimum buffer width and location for retail automobile parts
and accessory sales uses with motor vehicle repair and service uses shall be 15
feet within the setback from any other property.
      (5)   Design standards specific to conditional uses. All development of
conditional uses in the O3 - Office 3 Zone where the TC-Overlay District
applies shall be subject to the following regulations unless, after due
consideration of plans, testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board
waives strict compliance with the requirements of this section in order to
promote the purposes of this chapter.
         (a)   Architectural compatibility. Any development shall be
constructed in accordance with an overall architectural plan such that the
facades, roof lines, architectural detail and landscaping of each building
shall be compatible with all other existing or proposed buildings on the site.
         (b)   Grouping. The principal and accessory buildings shall be
arranged in a group or groups such that no building shall be less than 30 feet
from any other building.
         (c)   Conditions. The reviewing board may impose more restrictive
conditions or any further reasonable conditions to the effect of noise, traffic
movement and volume, lighting and/or intensity of such conditional activities
on adjacent land uses and may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure
compliance with such restrictions or conditions.
   (C)   EE Overlay District conditional uses.
      (1)   Permitted conditional uses.
         (a)   Retail and service uses.
         (b)   Convenience stores.
         (c)   Indoor recreation facilities contained within a building or
buildings such as bowling alleys, skating and soccer rinks, tennis courts and
swimming pools.
         (d)   Outdoor recreation facilities including, but not limited to
golf, tennis, swimming and baseball batting cages.
      (2)   Prohibited uses.
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Movie theaters and cinemas;
         (c)   Gasoline filling stations;
         (d)   Arcades and go cart or mini-car racing tracks and facilities;
and
         (e)   Fast-food restaurants.
      (3)   Conditions of uses.
         (a)   The applicant must provide for community uses and benefits,
which may include, but not be limited to, providing community meeting rooms,
public gathering areas and facilities for civic or religious-sponsored
activities. In lieu thereof, the reviewing board may require that the applicant
contribute a sum equal to $1.25 per square foot for all of the square footage
that is the subject of the conditional use application. The reviewing board may
permit the applicant to construct elsewhere facilities equivalent in the
township as the reviewing board deems just and appropriate.
         (b)   For convenience stores only:
            1.   All access drives shall be a minimum of 300 feet from any
intersection of any public roadway with any other public roadway.
            2.   The tract must front on a county road.
         (c)   For outdoor recreation uses only:
            1.   Minimum tract size: 15 acres.
            2.   Must be located on or have access to a state right-of-way.
            3.   No batting cages or recreation uses that create loud
continuous noises may be located closer than 750 feet from any residentially
zoned property.
   
      (4)   Area and bulk standards applicable to the conditional use.
         (a)   Minimum lot size: four acres.
         (b)   Maximum height limitation: 50 feet.
      (5)   Design standards specific to the conditional uses. All development
in the O3 - Office 3 EE Overlay District where conditional uses are developed
shall be subject to the following regulations unless, after due consideration
of plans, testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board waives strict
compliance with the requirements of this section in order to promote the
purposes of this chapter:
         (a)   Architectural compatibility. Any development shall be
constructed in accordance with an overall architectural plan such that the
facades, roof lines, architectural detail and landscaping of each building
shall be compatible with all other existing or proposed buildings on the site.
         (b)   Grouping. The principal and accessory buildings shall be
arranged in a group or groups such that no building shall be less than 30 feet
from any other building.
         (c)   Trash enclosures. All trash and recycling containers shall be
enclosed in accordance with the township design standards for trash enclosures.
Trash and recycling pick-up may only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any State or Federal regulations.
         (d)   Shared parking. Shared parking may be permitted as determined by
the reviewing board.
         (e)   Conditions. The reviewing board may impose more restrictive
conditions or any further reasonable conditions to the effect of noise, traffic
movements and volume, lighting and/or intensity of such conditional activities
on adjacent land uses and may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure
compliance with such restrictions or conditions.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 07-
2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.064 DENSITY.
   No residential dwelling units shall be permitted in the O3-Office 3 Zone.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.065 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: three acres.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 200 feet.
   (C)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   50 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback.
         (a)   100 feet from any residentially zoned or residentially developed
property.
         (b)   50 feet from any other property.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback.
         (a)   100 feet from any residentially zoned or residentially developed
property.
         (b)   50 feet from any other property.
   (D)   Minimum buffer width and location requirement: 50 feet within the
setback from any residentially zoned property.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: 50 feet.
   (F)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (G)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum parking setbacks:
      (1)   100 feet from any residentially zoned property.
      (2)   Front yard setbacks:
         (a)   50 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   25 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (3)   Rear yard setback: 50 feet.
      (4)   Side yard setback: 25 feet, except that 12.5 feet may be permitted
where cross easements for parking are provided and maintained.
   (I)   Minimum distance between buildings: 30 feet or the average height of
adjacent buildings, whichever is greater.
   (J)   A minimum of 25% of the entire tract on which the development being
proposed will be completed shall be set aside as contiguous open space. Of the
25%, no more than 50% shall be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection. Each open space area shall be centrally
located and configured to enable connection of the open space area to adjacent
open space areas off-site and off-tract.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.066 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all O3 - Office 3 Zones unless,
after due consideration of plans, testimony and other submissions, the
reviewing board waives strict compliance with this section in order to promote
the purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   Façades. The façade of any building attached to another building or
construction of the same frontage as another building shall be visibly offset
from the attached building at an approximate 90 degree angle.
   (B)   Open Space. All open space shall be landscaped and maintained in a
careful and prudent manner. All landscaping material which has died or is in
the process of dying shall be replaced within the next spring or fall planting
season.
   (C)   Mechanical equipment screening. All mechanical equipment, whether
placed on the ground, roof or other location, shall be screened from ground-
level view with an acceptable material compatible with the architectural scheme
of the development.
   (D)   Utilities. All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
   (E)   Outdoor display. No products, materials or goods shall be stored or
displayed outside of the confines of the building or structure on the premises.
   (F)   Recreational requirements. In all developments in the O3 - Office 3
Zone of 20 acres or larger, recreational facilities shall be provided for the
use and enjoyment of office employees, including but not limited to outdoor
seating and eating areas, jogging and walking paths and fitness stations. Cross
easements shall be provided for adjacent lots in order to create an integrated
recreational area in any one district.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
O4 - OFFICE CAMPUS ZONE
§ 152.067 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   To provide for low intensity general and professional offices on a major
thoroughfare and near residential areas; therefore requiring compatibility with
the residential ambiance.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.068 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Primary uses. General and professional offices.
   (B)   Accessory uses. Restaurants, newsstands and health and fitness
facilities within office buildings.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.069 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum tract size: 10 acres.
   (B)   Minimum tract frontage: 400 feet.
   (C)   Maximum building coverage: 25%.
   (D)   Maximum total coverage: 60%.
   (E)   Maximum F.A.R.: 50.
   (F)   Maximum building size: 10,000 square feet.
   (G)   Maximum dimensions:
      (1)   Front yard: 25 feet.
      (2)   Side yard: 10 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Side to side: 10 feet.
      (5)   Front to front: 20 feet.
      (6)   Front to side: 10 feet.
      (7)   Front to rear: 20 feet.
      (8)   Rear to rear: 20 feet.
   (H)   Maximum height: 35 feet.
   (I)   Buffer width when abutting a residential use or zone in addition to
yards: 200 feet. No basin structure will be permitted in the buffer.
   (J)   A minimum of 50% of the open area shall be uplands.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 9006, passed 7-24-06)
§ 152.070Z ONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   See §§
152.076(A) and (C) through (H).
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
ORB - OFFICE RETAIL BUSINESS
§ 152.071 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the ORB-Office Retail Business Zone is to permit
limited low intensity retail uses and business uses with office uses in
transition areas.
(Ord. No. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.072 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The retail sale of goods and the provision of services for local needs
and local consumption exclusively which shall include only the following:
      (1)   Sale of goods, including only the following.
         (a)   Groceries;
         (b)   Meat and poultry, provided no slaughtering of animals is
performed on the premises;
         (c)   Bakeries, provided that all goods baked on the premises shall be
for sale on the premises;
         (d)   Packaged liquors only;
         (e)   Drugs and pharmaceuticals, the goods and services customarily
associated therewith;
         (f)   Flowers;
         (g)   Confectionery, including soft drinks and similar non-alcoholic
refreshments which may be consumed on the premises; and
         (h)   Stationery supplies, tobacco, periodicals and newspapers.
      (2)   Services including only the following:
         (a)   Barber and beauty shop operations;
         (b)   Custom tailoring and dressmaking employing no more than three
persons;
         (c)   Dry-cleaning services;
         (d)   Laundry collection;
         (e)   Self-service laundry operation;
         (f)   Shoe repairing;
         (g)   Radio and electrical repairing;
         (h)   Recreation and performing arts schools and training centers; and
         (i)   Daycare, pre-school and day nurseries.
   (B)   Offices of a recognized profession, including, but not limited to,
medicine, social services, finance, accounting, insurance, real estate, law,
engineering, architecture and planning as well as other licensed occupations
similar in nature.
   (C)   Music stores.
   (D)   Hobby/special interest.
   (E)   Restaurants, excluding fast-food; retail consumption liquor sales, as
an ancillary service of the restaurant use, may be permitted so long as the
total number of bar seats does not exceed one-half of the total number of
restaurant table seats in the licensed facility.
   (F)   Clothing stores.
   (G)   Shoe stores.
   (H)   Gifts/specialty.
   (I)   Jewelry/cosmetics.
   (J)   Pet shops.
   (K)   Banks, except as set forth in §
152.072(L)(2) below.
   (L)   The following uses are expressly prohibited in the ORB-Office Retail
Business Zone:
      (1)   Commercial storage garages for privately owned passenger
automobiles;
      (2)   Drive-in banks;
      (3)   Convenience stores; and
      (4)   Gasoline service stations.
(Ord. No. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.073 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Farming provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 5 acres.
      (2)   No additional clearing of vegetation other than grass may occur for
such use.
      (3)   No retail sales permitted from the lot (i.e. farm stands) unless
and until final site plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156 has been granted for such retail use and only if retail uses are
otherwise permitted in the zone.
(Ord. 07-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 152.074 DENSITY.
   No residential dwelling units are permitted in the ORB-Office Retail
Business Zone.
(Ord. No. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.075 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: 12,500 square feet for development existing as of
January 1, 2006; 20,000 square feet for new development after January 1, 2006.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet.
   (C)   Setback requirements:
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   50 feet from any county right-of-way.
         (c)   30 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet from any residentially zoned property.
         (b)   20 feet from any other property.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet from any residentially zoned property.
         (b)   20 feet from any other property.
   (D)   Minimum buffer width and location: 25 feet within the setback from any
residentially zoned property.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: 35 feet.
   (F)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (G)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing board to
promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum parking setbacks:
      (1)   25 feet from any state right-of-way.
      (2)   20 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (3)   25 feet from any residentially zoned property.
      (4)   20 feet from any other rear property line.
      (5)   12 ½ feet from any other side property line except that zero feet
is required where cross easements for parking are provided and maintained.
   (I)   A minimum of 25% of entire tract on which the development being
proposed will be completed shall be set aside as contiguous open space. Of the
25%, no more than 50% shall be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 07-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 85-06,
passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.076 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All development in the ORB - Office Retail Business Zone shall be subject to
the following regulations unless, after due consideration of plans, testimony
and other submissions, the reviewing board waives strict compliance with the
requirements of this section in order to promote the purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   Architectural compatibility. Any development in the ORB-Office Retail
Business Zone shall be constructed in accordance with an overall architectural
plan such that the facades, roof lines, architectural detail and landscaping of
each building shall be compatible with all other existing or proposed buildings
on the site.
   (B)   Grouping. The principal and accessory buildings shall be arranged in a
group or groups such that no building shall be less than 30 feet from any other
building.
   (C)   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground.
   (D)   Mechanical screening. All mechanical equipment, whether placed on the
ground, roof or other location, shall be screened from ground-level view with
an acceptable material compatible with the architectural scheme of the
development.
   (E)   Trash enclosures. All trash and recycling containers shall be enclosed
in accordance with the Township design standards for trash enclosures. Trash
and recycling pick-up may only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any State or Federal regulations.
   (F)   Shared parking. Shared parking may be permitted as determined by the
reviewing board.
   (G)   Outdoor display. No product, materials, supplies, equipment or goods
or other items shall be
stored or displayed outside of the confines of the building or structure on the
premises.
   (H)   Conditions. The reviewing board may impose more restrictive conditions
or any further reasonable conditions to the effect of noise, traffic movement
and volume, lighting and/or intensity of such use or uses on adjacent land uses
and may require sufficient guarantees to ensure compliance with such
restrictions or conditions.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 07-
2000)
B - BUSINESS
§ 152.081 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the B - Business Zone is to provide commercial and
other business uses in areas serviced by improved and controlled roads and
streets.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.082 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Retail sale of goods and provision of services, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Retail stores selling goods, such as the following;
         (a)   Groceries;
         (b)   Meat and poultry, provided no slaughtering of animals is
performed on the premises;
         (c)   Bakeries;
         (d)   Packaged liquors;
         (e)   Drugs and pharmaceuticals and the goods and services customarily
associated therewith;
         (f)   Flowers;
         (g)    Confectionery, including soft drinks and similar non-alcoholic
refreshments which may be consumed on the premises;
         (h)   Stationery supplies, tobacco, periodicals and newspapers.
      (2)   Haberdashery or other apparel sales;
      (3)   Gift shops;
      (4)   Furniture sales, including household electrical equipment;
   (B)   Professional offices, banks, instructional facilities and clerical
occupations of all kinds.
   (C)   Services and service agencies, such as:
      (1)   Funeral homes and undertaking establishments;
      (2)   Dog and cat hospitals;
      (3)   Garages and auto repair shops; provided that not more than six
vehicles incapable of operation are stored on the premises;
      (4)   Offices of contractors in the building trades, provided that no
bulk storage of materials or equipment is permitted;
      (5)   Restaurants and diners; retail consumption liquor sales, as an
ancillary service of the restaurant use, may be permitted so long as the total
number of bar seats does not exceed one-half of the total number of restaurant
table seats in the licensed facility;
      (6)   Taverns and bars;
      (7)   Barber and beauty shop operations, including nail and skin care
establishments;
      (8)   Custom tailoring and dress-making, but excluding clothing
manufacturing facilities;
      (9)   Dry-cleaning services;
      (10)   Laundry including self-service laundry services;
      (11)   Shoe repairing;
      (12)   Radio and electrical repairing;
      (13)   Self-storage facilities, including commercial storage garages for
privately owned passenger automobiles;
      (14)   Dancing and music schools; and
      (15)   Pre-schools and day-care nurseries.
   (D)   Retail sale of goods and services primarily offered to non-resident
clientele or transient highway travelers or which depend upon automobile
traffic in bulk, including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Pottery and cast- stone decorations; and
      (2)   Auction rooms.
   (E)   Recreation and amusement facilities operated for private profit, such
as:
      (1)   Skating rinks;
      (2)   Drive-in theatres;
      (3)   Golf driving ranges;
      (4)   Swimming pools; and
      (5)   Bowling alleys.
   (F)   Services and service agencies such as motels and hotels but excluding
trailer camps.
   (G)   Carwash facilities.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.083 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Carnivals, fairs and circuses, provided that the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   The use shall not last for longer than fourteen days, including
set-up, operation and breakdown.
      (2)   The reviewing board may impose such additional reasonable
conditions to the effect of noise, traffic movement and volume, lighting and/or
intensity of such use or uses require sufficient guarantees to ensure
compliance with such conditions.
   (B)   Gasoline service stations if they meet the following conditions:
      (1)   No storage of any disabled or dismantled vehicles if used solely as
a gasoline service station.
      (2)   No used cars which are up for sale may be stored on the premises.
      (3)   No other uses or buildings at the property except an automotive
repair shop as defined in §
152.082(C)(3) or a convenience store when the property is located at a
signalized intersection. Both repair shops and convenience stores must be used
and operated in connection with the gasoline service station.
   (C)   Farming provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 5 acres.
      (2)   No additional clearing of vegetation other than grass may occur for
such use.
      (3)   No retail sales permitted from the lot (i.e. farm stands) unless
and until final site plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156 has been granted for such retail use and only if retail uses are
otherwise permitted in the zone.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 07-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 125-
08, passed 4-28-08; Am. Ord. 448-24, passed 3-25-24)
§ 152.084 DENSITY.
   No residential dwelling units shall be permitted in any B - Business Zone.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.085 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size: 12,500 square feet for development existing as of
January 1, 2006; 20,000 square feet for new development after January 1, 2006.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet.
   (C)   Setback requirements:
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback: 100 feet.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any property line which abuts a residentially
zoned or used property; right-of-ways shall not be included.
         (b)   50 feet from any other property.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet from any residentially zoned property;
         (b)   15 feet from any other property.
   (D)   Minimum buffer width and location: 50 feet within the setback from any
property line which abuts a residentially zoned or used property; right-of-ways
shall not be included.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: two and one half stories but not to exceed
35 feet.
   (F)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%
   (G)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature or seasonal in nature and may be re-established in a
relatively short period of time, compliance with this section may be adjusted
to promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum distance between buildings: eight feet.
   (I)   Minimum parking setbacks:
      (1)    50 feet from any property line which abuts a residentially zoned
or used property; right-of- ways shall not be included.
      (2)   15 feet from any other property.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.086 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ROUTE 561.
   (A)   Storefront regulations. All buildings shall provide a storefront
character on the first floor adjacent to the sidewalk. All buildings, with a
storefront character shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The length of facade without intervening fenestration or entryway
shall not exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Fenestration shall be provided for a minimum of 75% of the length
of the frontage:
         (a)   Beginning at a point not more than three feet above the
sidewalk, to a height no less than ten feet above the sidewalk;
         (b)   Beginning at the finished floor elevation to a height no less
than ten feet above the finished floor elevation when the finished floor
elevation is three or more feet above the sidewalk; or
         (c)   Beginning at a point not more than sidewalk level, to a height
no less than ten feet above the finished floor elevation when the finished
floor elevation is below the sidewalk.
      (3)   Continuous landscaped buffer strips shall be constructed along
public sidewalks and public rights-of-way where parking is adjacent to such
sidewalks or public rights-of-way, except at points of ingress and egress into
the facility. Such landscaped buffer strips shall be a minimum of five feet in
width and shall contain, in addition to grass and/or ground cover, trees
planted a maximum of 50 feet on center along the entire length.
      (4)   All landscaped buffer strips along public sidewalks and public
rights of way shall have a minimum of one tree for every 40 feet on center.
      (5)   Newly planted trees shall be a minimum of two inches in caliper as
measured at a height three feet above ground level, shall have a 40- foot
minimum mature height and shall be drought-tolerant. Trees shall be planted a
minimum of 30 inches from any barrier curb so as to prevent injury to trees
from vehicle bumpers.
   (B)   Parking lots.
      (1)   Surface parking lots shall have a minimum landscaped area equal to
at least 10% of the paved area within said lot. In no case shall a parking lot
owner be required to provide landscaped areas that exceed 10% of the paved
area.
      (2)   A minimum of one tree per eight parking spaces shall be included in
the required landscaped areas for surface parking lots.
      (3)   In addition to trees, ground cover shall be provided in order to
protect tree roots and to prevent erosion. Ground cover shall consist of
shrubs, mulch and other similar landscaping materials.
      (4)   Barrier curbs shall be installed around the perimeter of surface
parking lots and around landscaped areas that are required herein, except where
the perimeter abuts an adjacent building or structure and at points of ingress
and egress into the facility, so as to prevent encroachment of vehicles onto
adjacent property, rights-of-way and landscape areas.
      (5)   All commercial uses shall provide bicycle/moped parking facilities
at a ratio of at least one bicycle/moped parking space for every 20 automobile
parking spaces.
      (6)   No surface level parking lots shall abut Haddonfield-Berlin Road.
Driveways leaving to rear parking areas shall be permitted.
      (7)   Shared parking lots and access amongst buildings is recommended.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
GB2 - GENERAL BUSINESS 2
§ 152.091 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of the GB2 - General Business 2 Zone is to
further the public health, safety and general welfare; to provide for
necessary, orderly and balanced development of commercial, public, recreational
and residential uses; to provide for the well-located, clean, safe and pleasant
development of commercial sites in reasonable proximity to residential and
other uses such that their impact on transportation facilities is minimized; to
encourage the planning and building of new communities incorporating the best
features of modern design; to encourage more flexible land development that
will preserve and enhance natural resources, including but not limited to
streams, lakes, floodplains, wetlands, groundwater, wooded areas, sloped areas
and areas of unusual importance to the natural ecosystems; to provide a
procedure that will encourage the optimal use of land and its development; and
to ensure that the land use regulation is subject to reasonable administrative
standards that will promote the disposition of proposals for such development
without undue delay.
      (B)   It is recognized that the creation of balanced developments
consisting of commercial, public, recreational and residential uses in
convenient and complementary relation to each other and to other districts of
the township may encourage imaginative, efficient and orderly physical growth
within the township to satisfy the increasing demand for goods and services,
housing, recreation and employment. The GB2 - General Business 2 Zone shall
provide for a balanced combination of commercial, public, recreational and
residential uses in a single district suited by its size, location and
topography for unified development as a center of commerce, housing, employment
and community life within the township. Any development within the GB2 -
General Business 2 Zone shall be considered a planned development as defined by
the Municipal Land Use Law (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.) and shall meet the
minimum requirements established for a planned development.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.092 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Multi-family residential housing, in a townhouse or garden-style
apartment (one unit above another) configuration, provided such development
complies with §§
153.001 through
153.028, Affordable Housing, of the Township Code and includes the required
number of low and moderate income units (or any permissible alternative)
pursuant to §
153.001 of the Township Code.
   (B)   Banks chartered under state or federal law.
   (C)   Churches, chapels, synagogues or similar houses of worship, convents
or monasteries, schools with a religious affiliation, including, as accessory
uses, rectory, parish houses, parks and playgrounds.
   (D)   Hotels.
   (E)   Multi-stored mixed use buildings with residential uses above office
and retail space.
   (F)   Offices of a recognized profession, including but not limited to
medicine, social services, finance, accounting, insurance, real estate, law,
engineering, architecture and planning, but not to include other licensed
occupations, such as general contracting or public movers.
   (G)   Offices of a public or quasi-public entity, including but not limited
to local, state or federal administrative offices, public utility offices,
armed services offices or similar use.
   (H)   Recreational and amusement facilities, provided that all such uses
shall be contained within a building or buildings, except that limited outdoor
recreation facilities which are complementary to uses contained within a
building may be permitted at the discretion of the Planning Board. This would
include such things as natural ice skating areas as they relate to an indoor
ice skating rink and a swimming pool as it relates to a hotel. In no event
shall outdoor facilities provide vending areas for retail sales or rentals of
goods, services or amusements. Under no circumstances shall indoor or outdoor
recreation facilities be construed to include video game arcades or similar
arcade-type facilities.
   (I)   Retail sales, including but not limited to appliances; auctioning;
baked goods, provided that all goods baked on the premises are sold on the
premises; clothing and accessories; dry goods, electric and electronic goods;
flowers, provided that no products are grown on-site; furniture and carpeting;
gifts; groceries and meat products, provided that no slaughtering of animals
takes place on the premises; hardware; newspapers and periodicals; packaged
liquor; pharmaceuticals and associated products; sporting goods; stationery and
similar retail activities; but specifically excluding the sale of new or used
vehicles.
   (J)   Retail services, including but not limited to barbering and
cosmetology; dry cleaning, providing no bulk processing takes place on-site;
electric, electronic and appliance repair; laundry, including self-service
machines and collection, but not to include bulk processing; photography;
restaurants, taverns and bars; shoe repair; tailoring; but not to include the
wholesale manufacturing of clothing; undertaking; upholstery; veterinarian
clinics and similar retail services; but specifically excluding garages, auto
body and welding uses and vehicle repair.
   (K)   Licensed day-care facilities.
   (L)   Parking lots.
   (M)   On any particular lot or structure on which a residential use exists
as of July 1, 1999, only residential uses are permitted.
   (N)   On any particular lot or structure on which a non-residential use
exists as of July 1, 1999, only non-residential uses are permitted.
   (O)   On any particular lot or structure which is vacant or undeveloped as
of July 1, 1999, only non-residential uses and assisted living facilities are
permitted.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.093 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Administrative offices of commercial and industrial partnerships,
companies or corporations, provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   No sales of a retail or wholesale nature shall be permitted on the
premises.
      (2)   No warehousing or storage of materials or equipment, including the
storage of vehicles, other than the incidental storage of office supplies or
records shall be permitted on the premises.
   (B)   Self-contained retail vending carts, provided that the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   They must be located within a building or specifically located
within a clearly marked pedestrian promenade area as shown on the site plan for
the development.
      (2)   Each cart location shall be within a ten foot area of the location
specifically shown within the promenade area on the site plan.
      (3)   "Self-contained" for these purposes, means a vending unit in which
retail goods are dispensed, excluding alcoholic beverages, without
manufacturing or assembly within.
      (4)   Any individual cart may not exceed four feet in width, eight feet
in length and 32 square feet in floor area.
      (5)   A minimum setback of 50 feet from a public or private right-of-way
shall apply.
      (6)   A maximum of six carts shall be permitted at any one time.
   (C)   Single family detached dwellings.
      (1)   Conditions for use:
         (a)   Single family dwellings may only be located between land zoned
for residential use and other permitted uses in the GB2 - General Business 2
Zone.
         (b)   The total number of single-family dwellings shall not exceed 20%
of the total number of both existing and proposed residential units in the
entire GB2 tract.
         (c)   No single-family dwelling, exclusive of screened porches, open
porches and/or decks, shall occupy more than 75% of the buildable area of the
lot which the same is located.
      (2)   Accessory uses:
         (a)   Garages;
         (b)   Pools;
         (c)   Tennis courts;
         (d)   Cabanas;
         (e)   Sheds; or
         (f)   Similar uses incidental to the primary residential use.
      (3)   Area and Bulk Standards for Conditional Use.
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 17,500 square feet. Despite the foregoing, any
lot existing as of September 1, 1999, or subject to the protection provided
under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq., which was conforming as to lot size on such
date, shall not be deemed non-conforming as to lot size so long as the lot
meets all other area and bulk standards of the GB2 - General Business 2 Zone.
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 100 feet, except that lot frontage may be
measured at the front yard setback line on curvilinear streets, including culs-
de-sacs. Despite the foregoing, any lot existing as of September 1, 1999, or
subject to the protection provided under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq., which was
conforming as to lot frontage on such date, shall not be deemed non-conforming
as to lot frontage so long as the lot meets all other area and bulk standards
of the GB2 - General Business 2 Zone.
         (c)   Setback requirements.
            1.   Minimum front yard setback:
               a.   50 feet from any county or state right-of-way;
               b.   30 feet from any other right-of-way.
            2.   Minimum rear yard setback:
               a.   75 feet from any county or state right-of-way for reverse
frontage lots;
               b.   25 feet from any other rear property line.
            3.   Minimum side yard setback:
               a.   15 feet, except for side entry garages for which the
setback shall be 29 feet.
         (d)   Minimum backyard area: 50 feet.
         (e)   Maximum height limitation: two and one half stories but not to
exceed 35 feet.
         (f)   Maximum impervious coverage: 45% of total lot area.
         (g)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall
be cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
         (h)   Minimum open space requirement: Subdivisions of ten acres or
larger shall set aside a minimum of 20% of the gross tract acreage for open
space, of which a maximum of 50% may be wetlands as designated by the New
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection. Upon request, the Planning Board
may allow an applicant to provide, in lieu of some or all of the required open
space, additional active recreational facilities to be installed, on site or
off site, as specifically approved by the Planning Board, in such amount and
location as the Planning Board in its discretion shall require.
         (i)   Other requirements: All developments of 25 acres or larger shall
provide active recreation designed for the primary use of the development's
residents, unless the reviewing board finds that the characteristics of the
site dictate passive recreation as a better use for such development.
      (4)   Conditional Use Design Standards: The following regulations shall
apply unless, after due consideration of plans, testimony and other
submissions, the reviewing board waives strict compliance with these
requirements in order to further the purposes of this zoning district:
         (a)   Landscaping. Each lot to be developed shall contain at least two
shade trees a minimum of three inches in caliper and shall meet the minimum
standards set by the American Nurseryman's Association. The reviewing board
shall reserve the right to require additional shade trees given the natural
condition of the land to be subdivided.
         (b)   Lot arrangement and housing type. Lots shall be arranged such
that lot size shall vary in size throughout the entire development. Houses
shall be varied within the development so that no two dwellings on adjacent
lots shall have the same external appearance, giving due consideration to
structural components and design variations.
         (c)   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground.
   (D)   Home Businesses.
      (1)   Conditions for use:
         (a)   The gross floor area devoted to home business use shall not
exceed the lesser of 250 square feet or 10% of the total gross floor living
area of the residential property.
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be provided for the home business in
addition to the spaces required for the residential use, provided that no more
than two additional spaces are provided, and further provided that only one
business vehicle combined with a trailer, if any, which shall not exceed 8,000
pounds registered vehicle weight, shall be permitted to park at the residential
property.
         (c)   No more than one non-residential employee shall be permitted.
         (d)   No goods, material, supplies or items of any kind may be
delivered either to or from the premises, except in a passenger vehicle owned
by the resident, and no materials, supplies, equipment or other items may be
stored on or about the exterior of the property or on or in an open truck or
trailer.
         (e)   No client, customer, patient or patron shall be permitted to be
upon the premises for business or professional purposes.
         (f)   No retail or wholesale sales products or materials shall be
permitted on the premises for business or professional purposes.
         (g)   A certificate of conformance shall be required for the floor
area devoted to the home business.
         (h)   No sign identifying or advertising the home business shall be
permitted.
      (2)   No accessory uses are permitted.
   (E)   Adult assisted living facilities:
      (1)   Conditions of use.
         (a)   A minimum lot size: 2 acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage on a public or private street: 200 feet.
         (c)   The adult assisted living facility shall be owned and operated
by a for-profit entity or organization and/or shall not be subject to any tax
exemption nor abatement.
         (d)   The assisted living residence, licensed by the State of New
Jersey, shall be limited to senior citizens.
         (e)   Outdoor areas suitable for sitting and limited walking shall be
provided for the residents.
         (f)   The maximum permitted density shall be 25 beds per acre.
      (2)   Area and Bulk Requirements for Conditional Uses.
         (a)   Minimum front yard setback:
            1.   County right-of-way: 100 feet.
            2.   Local or private right-of-way: 50 feet.
         (b)   Minimum side yard setback: 50 feet.
         (c)   Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet.
         (d)   Maximum height limitation: 45 feet.
         (e)   Minimum parking setbacks:
            1.   From any county right-of-way: 35 feet.
            2.   From any private or local right-of-way: 25 feet.
            3.   From any side property line: 25 feet.
            4.   From any rear property line: 25 feet.
         (f)   All required off-street parking shall be located on the same lot
or premises as the use served.
         (g)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (F)   Parking garages and multi-level parking structures shall be permitted
provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The maximum height limitation shall be 60% of the height of the
principal structure, but in no event shall the height be greater than five
levels of parking above grade, including any rooftop parking as one level.
      (2)   Ramps for the movement of vehicles between parking levels shall be
located entirely within the parking structure. No parking structure shall be
permitted helical ramps.
      (3)   Parking structures shall be designed to minimize blank concrete
facades through the use of innovative architectural detail and shall achieve a
compatibility with the principal structure to the extent that the parking
facility shall be clearly identified with the principal use.
      (4)   To the greatest extent possible, the first level of parking shall
be located below grade to minimize the impact of the structure on adjacent land
uses.
      (5)   Any parking structures containing 800 parking spaces or more shall
provide a pedestrian walkway grade separated from any entrance or internal
collector drive and which connects the parking facility with the principal
structure or structures served.
      (6)   Parking structures shall be located in the rear yards of the
principal structure the facility is designed to serve. In the event that a lot
fronts on 2 or more public streets, the parking structure shall be located in
the rear yard of the principal street frontage.
      (7)   Parking structures shall conform to the minimum setback
requirements in §
152.095 below with the added provision that, for every 10 feet or portion
thereof in excess of 30 feet in height, all yard setbacks (with respect to the
parking structure only) shall be increased 10 feet.
   (G)   Farming provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 5 acres.
      (2)   No additional clearing of vegetation other than grass may occur for
such use.
      (3)   No retail sales permitted from the lot (i.e. farm stands) unless
and until final site plan approval in accordance with
Chapter 156 has been granted for such retail use and only if retail uses are
otherwise permitted in the zone.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 07-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 266-
15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.094 DENSITY.
   (A)   The maximum residential density for all residential development in the
GB2 - General Business 2 Zone shall not exceed eight dwelling units per acre of
the total GB2 - General Business 2 Zone; provided, however, that the maximum
residential density for single family detached dwelling units shall not exceed
1.5 units per acre of land included in the single family detached residential
section of the GB2 - General Business 2 Zone. Despite the foregoing, if any
property, on which a residential dwelling exists as of April 12, 1999,
otherwise conforms to the area and bulk standards of Section B1 or C3, as
applicable, above, such property will not be deemed non-conforming as to
density.
   (B)   The maximum permitted density for nursing homes, convalescent
facilities, assisted living facilities and other similar uses for senior
citizens shall be 25 units per acre.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.095 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum tract size: 50 acres.
   (B)   Setbacks for tract boundary only:
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   50 feet from any county or municipal right-of-way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet for all uses, except single family detached dwellings,
from any contiguous property zoned for residential use.
         (b)   25 feet in all other cases.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet for all uses, except single family detached dwellings,
from any contiguous property zoned for residential use.
         (b)   25 feet in all other cases.
      (4)   Minimum parking setback:
         (a)   100 feet for all uses, except single family detached dwellings,
from any contiguous property zoned for residential use;
         (b)   50 feet from any state right-of-way;
         (c)   35 feet from any county right-of-way;
         (d)   25 feet from any other right-of-way;
         (e)   25 feet from rear property line;
         (f)   25 feet from side property line.
   (C)   The maximum height limitation shall be 150 feet, with the requirement
that, for every ten feet or portion thereof in excess of 50 feet, all setbacks
shall be increased an additional ten feet.
   (D)   The maximum impervious coverage for any tract area shall be limited to
60% of the total tract area.
      (1)   There shall be a limit of 35% of the total tract area which may be
utilized for vehicular access and parking.
      (2)   There shall be a limit of 25% of the total tract area which may be
utilized for buildings.
   (E)   Open Space Requirements:
      (1)   At least 40% of the gross acreage or 20 acres, whichever is
greater, shall be reserved for open space uses. Of the 40%, no more than 50%
shall be wetlands as designated by the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection. Each open space area shall be a minimum of three contiguous acres
and, to
the greatest extent possible, centrally located. A minimum of 100 contiguous
feet of each open space area shall front on an entrance or internal collector
drive so as to permit public access to an open space from a public entrance or
internal collector drive.
      (2)   A minimum of 24% of the gross acreage or twelve acres, whichever is
greater, shall be devoted entirely to green areas such as lawns, landscaping,
ponds, lakes and streams. No land shall be deemed to have been set aside for
open space uses under this section unless the required open space areas are
either publicly owned, or are located on an improved lot and are subject to
appropriate restrictions or covenants assuring that a private person, firm,
association, corporation or agency will be responsible for the maintenance of
such area.
      (3)   Unless the township agrees to accept dedication of and ownership of
such open space uses, an open space organization shall be created pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-43 et seq., or other private organization acceptable to the
Township Solicitor, which shall be responsible for the maintenance, insurance,
operation, repair and replacement of the open space uses. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to require the Township to accept dedication or
ownership of such open space areas or uses.
   (F)   Minimum Buffer Width and Location Requirements: 100 feet within the
setback from any contiguous (having no intervening public street) property
zoned for residential use unless the development in the GB2 - General Business
2 Zone contiguous to the residential use zoned property is single family
detached dwellings pursuant to Section C3 above, in which case no buffer is
required.
   (G)   Special Regulations: Prior to the issuance of the 101st residential
building permit, there shall have been completed a minimum of 60,000 gross
square feet of non-residential uses. Prior to the issuance of the 201st
residential building permit, there shall have been completed a minimum of
120,000 gross square feet of non-residential uses. Prior to the issuance of the
301st residential building permit, there shall have been completed a minimum of
180,000 gross square feet of non-residential uses. Prior to the issuance of the
401 st residential building permit, there shall have been completed a minimum
of 240,000 gross square feet of non-residential uses. Nothing herein shall be
construed as to limit the building permits for non-residential uses. For the
purposes of this section, a religious house of worship shall not be considered
as a non-residential use.
   (H)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.096 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Outdoor storage. No product, material or goods shall be stored outside
of the confines of the building or structure on the premises.
   (B)   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground.
   (C)   Mechanical equipment screening. All mechanical equipment, whether
placed on the ground, roof or other location, shall be screened from ground
level view with an acceptable material compatible with the architectural motif
of the development.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
MB - MAJOR BUSINESS ZONE
§ 152.101 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   To provide for a wide range of business uses in appropriate locations and
with specific design standards along Route 73, recognizing the primary
importance of the corridor as a business locus.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.102 PERMITTED USES AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted uses and bulk standards.
         Min.             Min.      Minimum (ft)                       Max.
Use/     Tract   Location Frontage  Front             Rear   Distance  Height
Standard Size             (ft)      Yard    Side Yard Yard** Between   (ft)
         (acres)                    Rt. 73*                  Buildings
               Min.                          Minimum (ft)
               Tract                Min.     Front             Distance  Max. Height
Use/Standard   Size    Location     Frontage Yard  Side Rear   Between   (ft)
               (acres)              (ft)     Rt.   Yard Yard** Buildings
                                             73*
                       W: From the
                       northernmost
                       township
                       line south
                       to the
                       northernmost
                       right-of-way
                       of Dutchtown
                       Road and
                       from the
                       southernmost
                       right-of-way
Shopping       10      of Dutchtown 700      50    50   100    25        40
Centers                Road South
                       to the
                       township
                       line.
                       E: From the
                       southernmost
                       township
                       line north
                       to Block
                       229.01
                       (William
                       Feather
                       Drive)
Retail (sales  2       Same as      200      50    50   100    25        40
and service)           above
Office         5       W/E entire   400      75    50   75     25        50
Buildings
Banks          2       Same as      200      50    50   75     25        40
                       Office
Health and
Fitness        3       Entire       200      50    50   75     25        40
Centers
Automobile     5       W entire     400      50    50   100    25        40
Sales
Banquet and
Conference     3       E/W entire   400      50    50   100    25        40
Facilities
Funeral Homes
and            2       Entire       200      50    50   75     25        40
Undertaking
Establishments
Recreation and
Performing
Arts Schools   2       Entire       200      50    50   75     25        40
and Training
Centers
Pre-schools
and Daycare    2       Entire       200      50    50   75     25        40
Nurseries,
Adult Daycare
Nursing Homes,
Convalescent
Care
Facilities,
Acute Care
Facilities and 2       Entire       200      50    50   75     25        40
Assisted
Living
Facilities
Marketed to
Senior
Citizens
Restaurants,
except Fast    2       E/W entire   200      50    50   100    25        40
Food
Planned        5, no
Commercial     more                 200      50    50   75     20        40
Development    than 10
                                                                         40, except
                                                                         office
                                                                         buildings
Planned                                                                  within the
Commercial     More                 300      75    50   100    30        Planned
Developments   than 10                                                   Commercial
                                                                         Development
                                                                         shall have
                                                                         a maximum
                                                                         height 60
Medical
Professional
Offices,
Doctors
Offices,       2       Entire       200      75    50   100    25        50
Professional
Hospital
Support
Facilities
                       W: From
                       northenmost
                       terminus of
                       Dutchtown
                       Road North
                       to the
                       northenmost
                       boundary of
Convenience            the MB -
Stores with            Major
Gasoline       3       Business     300      50    50   100    25        35
Fueling                zone.
Stations               E: From the
                       southernmost
                       boundary of
                       Block 225,
                       Lot 5 North
                       to the
                       Township
                       boundary
                       line.
 
Note: W = West Side; E = East Side; S= South to Block
*   In addition to the Rt. 73 streetscape requirements.
**   The entire rear yard area shall consist of a landscape buffer consistent
with § 154.006 and a 100-foot buffer shall be a quadrupling of the 25-foot
buffer. Where a 100-foot rear yard buffer is required, a fire lane and a
stormwater management basin or a portion thereof may be built within the first
50 feet of the buffer.
   (B)   Total impervious coverage.
      (1)   Without sewer service: 30%.
      (2)   With sewer service: 60%.
      (3)   With sewer service and a tract area of at least 20 acres: 70%
provided that at least 75% of the open area of the tract shall be contiguous
and that no more than 50% of that area shall be DEP designated wetlands.
      (4)   Planned commercial development with a minimum tract area of five
acres but no more than ten acres: 65% with sewer service and at least 75% of
the open area of the tract shall be contiguous and no more than 50% of the open
area may be NJDEP designated wetlands.
      (5)   Planned commercial development with a minimum tract area of more
than ten acres: 65% with sewer service and at least 75% of the open area of the
tract shall be contiguous and no more than 50% of the open area may be NJDEP
designated wetlands.
   (C)   Pervious area.
      (1)   Without sewer service: 70%.
      (2)   With sewer service: 40%.
      (3)   With sewer service and a tract area of at least 20 acres: 30%
provided that at least 75% of the open area of the tract shall be contiguous
and that no more than 50% of that area shall be DEP designated wetlands.
   (D)   Minimum area per use or lot.
      (1)   Planned commercial development with a minimum tract area of five
acres but no more than ten acres: 1.25 acres except that the area may be
reduced in the reviewing board's discretion to one acre provided an average
1.25 acres per use or lot is maintained over the entirety of the tract.
      (2)   Planned commercial development with a minimum tract area of more
than ten acres: 1.25 acres except that the area may be reduced in the reviewing
board's discretion to one acre provided an average 1.25 acres per use or lot is
maintained over the entirety of the tract.
   (E)   Parking setbacks. The parking setbacks for all uses shall be 50 feet
from Route 73, 50 feet from a residential zone or use and 20 feet when the
parking setback is not from Route 73, a residential zone or use or to a side
lot line. In the case of adaptive reuse, existing parking setbacks may continue
to be utilized without the need for zoning relief provided that the existing
parking setbacks are at least 75% or greater of the parking setbacks
established herein. In such an event, an opaque fence or wall shall be required
in the parking setback area. In the discretion of the reviewing board, where
parking facilities are proposed which are contiguous to existing parking
facilities which serve existing non-residential uses, the parking setback may
be reduced to 15 feet. The parking setbacks may be further reduced to ten feet
where parking facilities are interconnected and appropriate cross access
easements are provided.
   (F)   In the event of adaptive reuse, existing building setbacks may
continue to be utilized without the need for zoning relief provided that the
existing setbacks are at least 75% or greater of the setbacks required herein.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 90-06, passed 7-24-06; Am. Ord. 91-06,
passed 10-10-06; Am. Ord. 110-07, passed 7-9-07; Am. Ord. 182-11, passed 3-28-
11; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.103 CONDITIONAL USES - GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Permitted principal uses. All types of medical and health care related
uses, such as hospitals, ambulatory surgical center, medical clinics, medical
offices and the like, including laboratories, conference facilities and other
support services. Restaurants and lodging may be permitted as ancillary uses to
be used only by staff, visitors, conferees and patient families subject
expressly to the conditions set forth herein.
   (B)   Permitted accessory uses. In addition to customary accessory uses, air
transport (heliport) landing areas may be permitted to support health care
operations provided that there will not be shelters, repair facilities, or
temporary or permanent staging or storage areas. The transportation by air
transport shall be exclusively for the emergency exportation of patients.
Landing areas must meet the setbacks set forth herein and must comply with all
other federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Parking garages,
parking lots and multi-level parking structures when accessory to other
permitted uses.
   (C)   Conditions of use. The principal and accessory uses identified herein
shall be permitted provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   General development plan approval. The development of a medical
campus should utilize the general development plan procedure in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-45 et seq., as follows:
         (a)   Purpose. The opportunity to submit the general development plan
(GDP) is intended to provide a means to coordinate long-range public and
private planning of projects for the medical campus use. Approval of the GDP is
intended to provide protections as set forth in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-45.1 prior to
preliminary and final site plan and/or subdivision approvals. Approval of the
GDP is separate, and must be acted upon separately, from preliminary and final
site plan or subdivision approvals.
         (b)   Eligibility.
            1.   A GDP application shall be submitted prior to, or
simultaneously with, the filing of a preliminary subdivision or site plan
application provided all the requirements are met for each form of application.
            2.   Applicant may submit GDP plans for review and approval
simultaneously with separate site plan and/or subdivision applications that
may, or may not, contain variance requests for any phase of the GDP.
            3.   The parcel of land for which GDP approval is being sought
shall be greater than 100 acres in size.
         (c)   Filing procedures; items required.
            1.   The applicant shall file with the reviewing board 15 black-on-
white copies of the GDP in plat form together with any supporting data, two
completed copies of the application form, two copies of the Voorhees Township
Land Development Review Submission Checklist indicating a submission of all
requirements for GDP approval along with two copies of all items required for
such approval as set forth on such checklist and the applicable fees. All plats
shall be folded to file folder size with the title block facing out.
            2.   The plat and accompanying written and other data and reports
shall be prepared by appropriate professional experts, licensed by the State of
New Jersey when applicable, in sufficient detail to allow for reasonable review
by the reviewing board's own experts at the applicant's expense and shall
include the following:
               a.   Be clearly and legibly drawn.
               b.   Graphic scale not less than one inch equals 200 feet. If
more than one sheet is required, a separate sheet showing the overall site on
one sheet shall be submitted as a cover page to the complete set of plans.
Sheet sizes shall be no larger than 36 inches by 42 inches.
               c.   As part of the land use plan, the GDP shall set forth the
number of lodging units, the amount of nonresidential floor space, the
nonresidential floor area ratio for the planned development, in its entirety,
and by sections according to any schedule which sets forth the timing of
sections of the development. The proposed land use plan shall indicate the
total tract area and the general location of the land uses to be included in
the development, including existing and proposed lot lines and the area of each
lot. The total number of lodging units by types and locations and the
nonresidential floor area by types and location shall be delineated on the
overall plan, and identified according to any proposed sections of development
according to a timing schedule. A legend shall identify the land area devoted
to each land use type with a calculation of the gross floor area within each
section and in the overall tract.
               d.   A circulation plan showing the general location and types
of transportation facilities, including facilities for pedestrian access,
within the planned development and any proposed improvements to the existing
transportation system outside the planned development.
               e.   An open space plan showing the proposed land area and
general location of parks and any other land area to be set aside for
conversation and recreational purposes and a general description of
improvements proposed to be made thereon, including a plan for the operation
and maintenance of parks and recreational lands.
               f.   A utility plan indicating the need for and showing the
proposed location of sewage and water lines, any drainage facilities
necessitated by the physical characteristics of the site, proposed methods for
handling solid waste disposal, and a plan for the operation and maintenance of
proposed utilities. The utility plan shall also address, as part of a
developers agreement, as provided in §152.103(C)(1)(c)2.o., the need for
expansion of existing sewer facilities in accordance with the following:
                  i.   Development of the medical campus will take place in a
portion of the Township that is currently served by the existing Cooper Road
Pumping Station, which accepts sanitary sewer flow from sewer service drainage
areas DA-14, DA-15 and DA-16 as shown on the Township's current Sanitary Sewer
Master Plan.
                  ii.   The Township has prepared a conceptual plan for future
sewer service in the area of the medical campus (Dutchtown Road Pumping Station
Project Conceptual Study) and has prepared construction plans and
specifications for improvements to the Township's sewer collection system in
the area of the medical campus (Dutchtown Road Pumping Station Project
including Contract 1998-1 for a new pumping station and Contract 1998-2 for a
new force main and gravity interceptors).
                  iii.   Development of the medical campus will require the
construction of a new pumping station and a force main to convey sanitary
wastewater from the medical campus to a point of connection to the Township's
sanitary sewer system on Centennial Boulevard, at the manhole to which the
current Cooper Road Force Main discharges (identified herein as the "Dutchtown
Road Pumping Station and Force Main"). The Dutchtown Road Pumping Station and
Force Main shall be designed, permitted and constructed as part of the medical
campus development project in general accordance with the Township's Dutchtown
Road Pumping Station Project Conceptual Study and Contracts 1998-1 and 1998-
2 for construction of the Dutchtown Road Pumping Station Project, as may be
amended to serve the requirements of the medical campus and the Township.
                  iv.   It is the intent of the Township's Conceptual Study
that the Dutchtown Road Pumping Station and Force Main shall be designed to
convey the sanitary sewer flow from sewer service drainage areas DA-14, DA-15
and DA-16 in its entirety. Provisions shall be made in the design of the
pumping station and influent connections to the station to accommodate sanitary
sewer flows from portions of the Township located beyond the area of the
medical campus. In addition, reasonable modifications shall be made to the
sewer collection system serving the medical campus, as part of the medical
campus development project, to the extent that such modifications will
facilitate the implementation of the Township's Dutchtown Road Pumping Station
Project Conceptual Study.
                  v.   Gravity interceptor sewers or force mains to convey
sanitary sewer flows from the existing Cooper Road and Sturbridge Lakes Pumping
Stations to the Dutchtown Road Pumping Station, as part of implementing the
Dutchtown Road Pumping Station Project Conceptual Study, shall be designed,
permitted and constructed by the Township.
                  vi.   The Township will enter into a cost recovery agreement
so that the costs for additional future capacity from portions of the Township
located beyond the area of the medical campus that is provided in the Dutchtown
Road Pumping Station and Force Main or the sewer collection system serving the
medical campus, if any, will be reimbursed by the future users of such
additional capacity.
                  vii.   All sanitary sewer facilities shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the Township's standards, as well as the
standards of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and all
other agencies with jurisdiction over the work.
                  viii.   Any modifications to the utility plan set forth in
the developer's agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the Township
Committee.
               g.   A storm water management plan setting forth the proposed
method of controlling and managing storm water on the site.
               h.   An environmental inventory including a general description
of the vegetation, soils, topography; geology; surface hydrology, climate and
cultural resources of the site, existing man-made structures or features; and
the probable impact of the development on the environmental attributes of the
site.
               i.   A community facility plan indicating the scope and type of
supporting community facilities which may include, but not be limited to,
educational or cultural facilities, historic sites, libraries, hospitals,
firehouses, and police stations.
               j.   A housing plan outlining the number of housing units to be
provided and the extent to which any housing obligation assigned to the
municipality pursuant to P.L. 1985, c. 222 (C. 52:27D-301 et al.) will be
fulfilled by the development.
               k.   A local service plan indicating those public services which
the applicant proposes to provide and which may include, but not be limited to,
water, sewer, cable and solid waste disposal.
               l.   A fiscal report describing the anticipated demand on
municipal services to be generated by the planned development and any other
financial impacts to be faced by municipalities or school districts as a result
of the completion of the planned development. The fiscal report shall also
include a detailed projection of property tax revenues which will accrue to the
county, municipality and school district according to the timing schedule
provided and following the completion of the planned development in its
entirety.
               m.   A proposed timing schedule in the case of a planned
development whose construction is contemplated over a period of years,
including any terms or conditions which are intended to project the interests
of the public and of the residents who occupy any section of the planned
development prior to the completion of the development in its entirety.
               n.   An estimate of the cost of completing required public and
common services including recreational amenities, circulation system
improvements, utility lines, community facilities, and such other improvements
as may be deemed necessary. This estimate shall include the cost of all on-site
improvements and a fair share of all required off-site improvements.
               o.   A written, proposed, applicant's agreement between the
Township and the applicant or its assignees. A draft agreement shall be
initiated by the applicant and submitted simultaneously with the GDP
application. Any revised draft shall be based upon the approval of the GDP and
shall be submitted prior to or as part of a preliminary and/or final
subdivision or site plan approval for any phase or section of the development.
The final agreement shall be executed following, but as a condition of, final
subdivision or site plan approval of any phase or section of the development,
and shall-thereafter be amended, as appropriate, for each subsequent phase or
section of the development. The agreement shall specify:
                  i.   The length of time within which the zoning rights are
vested, not to exceed the period(s) set forth in the reviewing board's
resolution approving the GDP and in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-45.1(b).
                  ii.   The applicant's commitments to completing any
applicable infrastructure improvements, community facilities, and, if
applicable, the method of participating in the Township's housing program.
                  iii.   Subject to the rights of the applicant pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-45.1a and as referenced above, the applicant's obligation to
reasonably remedy environmental or infrastructure problems identified by the
Township and required to be remedied as a result of changes in applicable state
or federal laws, ordinances or regulations.
                  iv.   The applicant's commitment to a phasing or timing
schedule that includes updating of traffic, water, sewer and similar facilities
as part of the submission of each preliminary and final plat for each phase or
section of the development in order to make any necessary adjustments to the
timing schedule and/or on-site or off-tract improvements for the overall GDP
based on actual experience rather than initial projections. The agreement may
provide the reviewing board with the right to relieve the applicant of all or
portions of this obligation depending on how current the previous submissions
and the data have been, how much development has occurred either on-site or in
nearby areas and the degree to which other conditions affecting the issues may
have changed.
                  v.   The form of agreement shall contain the right of the
Township to require the applicant to provide updated or prior studies at each
phase of the development and to pay the costs of increased or decreased fair
share of on-site and off-tract improvements which are required by the
applicable law governing such improvements based upon the pro rata share
assigned to the applicant, in order to deal with the need to accelerate, add,
reduce or eliminate those improvements directly due to the development.
                  vi.   The form of agreement shall provide for cooperation in
the execution of endorsements relating to permits for federal, state, county or
other governmental agencies, as permitted by law. The agreement shall be
recorded against the property upon which the GDP approval is being obtained.
Evidence of such recording acceptable to the Township Solicitor must be given
to the Township Clerk before the Township Clerk may sign the final site plan or
subdivision plans.
                  vii.   The applicant's agreement to abide by all the
conditions of the GDP including assurances as to the permanent one for one
square footage proportions between hospital uses and non-hospital uses
including but not limited to ambulatory surgical center, medical clinics,
medical offices laboratories, conference facilities, and the like, to maintain
the above portion of uses regardless of the ownership, leasing arrangements or
users of the development and other such assurances.
               p.   Nothing herein shall be construed to lessen the applicant's
obligation to abide by applicable state or federal laws, ordinances and
regulations such as environmental, infrastructure, and housing requirements
that changes might require modification to the GDP approval relating to
construction, funding, phasing, and/or site plan design.
         (d)   Action by reviewing board; effect and duration for GDP.
            1.   Prior to GDP approval, the reviewing board shall schedule and
conduct a public hearing on the matter. The applicant must comply with the
required requests for notice of a public hearing.
            2.   The reviewing board shall approve or deny the GDP within 95
days of submitting a complete application, or within such further time as may
be consented to by the applicant. Failure of the reviewing board to act within
the period prescribed shall constitute GDP approval. The GDP may be granted
approval conditioned on necessary county, state, municipal, or other approving
or licensing agencies acting favorably on, or issuing, their permits and/or
licenses as may be required.
            3.   The GDP approval does not authorize the applicant to commence
either construction or site work. The applicant must obtain subdivision and/or
site plan approval, as applicable, prior to the commencement of either
construction or site work.
            4.   The reviewing board shall find the following facts and
conclusions as part of a GDP approval:
               a.   The departures by the proposed development from zoning
regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property conform to the zoning
ordinance standards pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-65.
               b.   That the proposals for maintenance and conservation of any
common open space are reliable, and the amount, location and purpose of the
common open space are adequate.
               c.   That provision through the physical design of the proposed
development for public services, control over vehicular and pedestrian traffic,
and the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment are
adequate.
               d.   That the proposed planned development will not have an
unreasonably adverse impact upon the area in which it is proposed to be
established.
               e.   In the case of a proposed development which contemplates
construction over a period of years, that the terms and conditions intended to
protect the interests of the public and of the residents, occupants and owners
of the proposed development in the total completion of the development are
adequate.
            5.   The reviewing board shall establish the term and effect of the
GDP. The GDP, once approved, shall vest in the applicant the right to develop
the specified number of lodging units, the amount of nonresidential floor
space, and the nonresidential floor area ratio, as authorized by and for the
term set forth in the GDP. The terms and conditions of the GDP shall also, to
the extent specified, determine the extent and nature of the applicant's
rights, obligations and responsibilities with respect to circulation, on- and
off-tract improvements, open space, utilities, storm water management,
environmental preservation, community facilities, housing and local services.
               a.   The term and effect of the GDP shall not exceed 20 years
from the date the applicant receives final approval of the first section of the
GDP, or such lesser time approved by the reviewing board provided the approval
period is at least five years. In making its determination regarding the
duration of the term and effect of the GDP approval, the reviewing board shall
consider the number of lodging units or amount of nonresidential floor area to
be constructed, prevailing economic conditions, the timing schedule to be
followed in completing the development and the likelihood of its fulfillment,
the applicant's capability of completing the proposed development, and the
contents of the GDP and any conditions the reviewing board attaches to the
approval thereof.
               b.   The approval may be extended by the reviewing board for
good cause for additional two-year periods but the reviewing board shall have
the right to include with each extension a requirement that the applicant
comply with such additional conditions as the reviewing board may deem
appropriate and in the public interest. In no case shall the term or the effect
of the approval and any extensions exceed 20 years from the date upon which the
applicant receives final approval of the first section of the planned
development.
               c.   The applicant shall, to the satisfaction of the Township,
construct required improvements or post sufficient bond, notes, or letters of
credit, to insure that, in the event that the development is not fully
developed prior to the expiration of the general development plan, that
adequate community benefits and uses, circulation, utility, and community
facilities shall be provided.
               d.   Approval of the general development plan does not relieve
the applicant of the necessity to apply for preliminary and final site plan or
subdivision approval for each and every section of the development and to fully
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
               e.   The reviewing board may condition approval upon compliance
with any reasonable condition not in violation of the terms of this chapter or
other applicable local, state or federal laws.
         (e)   Modifications to GDP or timing schedules.
            1.   If, after the approval of the GDP, the applicant wishes to
revise the timing schedule, or wishes to make any variation in the location of
land uses within the development, the amount of the tract size, or to increase
the floor area ratio of nonresidential development in any section of the
development, the applicant shall be required to gain the prior approval of the
reviewing board, except that the applicant may reduce the amount of
nonresidential floor space by no more than 15%, or reduce nonresidential floor
area ratio by no more than 15% provided, however, that the applicant may not
reduce its affordable housing obligation, except as provided for herein,
without the prior approval of the reviewing board, and provided further there
shall be no reduction in the level of improvements, off-tract contributions, or
similar conditions of the GDP without prior approval of the reviewing board.
            2.   A revision to the timing schedule shall be reviewed by the
reviewing board and the granting or denial of any extensions of time shall be
based on the degree to which matters are judged to be, or to have been, within
the reasonable control of the applicant, or the degree to which matters may
have been beyond the control of the applicant. The reviewing board shall, in
deciding whether or not to grant approval of the modification, take into
consideration prevailing economic and market conditions, anticipated and actual
needs for lodging units and nonresidential space within the municipality and
the region, and the availability and capacity of public facilities to
accommodate the proposed development.
            3.   Upon acquiring a certificate of occupancy for every lodging
unit and every nonresidential structure in each section of the development as
set forth in the approved GDP, the applicant shall notify the Zoning
Administrative Officer, by certified mail, as evidence that the applicant is
fulfilling its zoning obligations under the approved GDP. If the Township does
not receive such notification at the completion of any section of the
development, the Township shall notify the applicant, by certified mail, in
order to determine whether or not the terms of the approved plan are being
complied with.
            4.   If the applicant does not complete any section of the
development within eight months of the date provided for in the approved plan,
or if at any time the Township has cause to believe that the applicant is not
fulfilling its obligations pursuant to the approved plan, the Township shall
notify the applicant, by certified mail, and the applicant shall have ten days
within which to give evidence that it is fulfilling his obligations pursuant to
the approved plan. The Township thereafter shall conduct a hearing to determine
whether or not the applicant is in violation of the approved plan. If, after
such a hearing, the Township finds good cause to terminate the approval, it
shall provide written notice of same to the applicant and the approval shall be
terminated 30 days thereafter.
            5.   In the event that the applicant who has GDP approval does not
apply for preliminary approval for the planned development which is the subject
of the GDP approval within five years of the date upon which the GDP has been
approved by the reviewing board, the Township shall have cause to terminate the
approval.
            6.   In the event that the development which is the subject of the
GDP is completed before the end of the term of the approval, the approval shall
terminate with the completion of the development. For the purposes of this
section, a development shall be considered complete on the date upon which a
certificate of occupancy has been issued for the final residential or
nonresidential structure in the last section of the development in accordance
with the timing schedule set forth in the approved GDP and the applicant has
fulfilled all of its obligations pursuant to the approval.
      (2)   Special mixed use requirement.  In no event shall any development
under the GDP section consist solely of hospital uses. In addition, the total
square footage of permitted hospital uses shall not exceed the total square
footage of other permitted and related non-hospital uses including but not
limited to ambulatory surgical center, medical clinics, medical offices,
laboratories, conference facilities, as well as restaurants and lodging which
are permitted as ancillary uses to be used only by staff, visitors, conferees
and patient families. Thus there shall be a permanent one for one proportion
between the hospital use and other permitted uses identified herein in the GDP
or any amendment thereto with the exception of parking garages and parking lots
which shall be excluded from the one for one proportion total square footage
calculation.
      (3)   Phasing. There shall be no phasing limits on the non-hospital uses
that is in accordance with an approved site plan for the conditional use
development, subject to the following:
         (a)   Upon construction of 700,000 square feet of hospital uses, there
shall be no further construction of hospital uses, before building permits have
issued and the initiation of construction of a minimum of 350,000 square feet
of the non-hospital uses. In the case of mixed-use buildings, the gross floor
area of the building shall be determined by the uses indicated on the approved
site plan.
      (4)   Non-hospital uses. The applicant shall submit proof to the Township
Solicitor that the non-hospital use portions of the GDP are deed restricted, in
perpetuity, as non-hospital uses, prior to the issuance of a zoning permit for
that phase of the development.
   (D)   Area and bulk standards.
 
Minimum tract area          100 acres
Minimum frontage            1,000 feet
Maximum building coverage   25%
Maximum impervious coverage 60%
Minimum setbacks from property line*
   a.   Buildings and structures from Route 73                                100
                                                                                    feet
   b.   Buildings and structures where adjacent use or zone is residential oth200
than Route 73                                                                       feet
   c.   Buildings and structures where adjacent use is non-residential other t100
from Route 73                                                                       feet
   d.   Surface parking to Route 73                                           100
                                                                                    feet
   e.   Surface parking where adjacent use or zone is residential other than f100
Route 73                                                                            feet
   f.   Surface parking where adjacent use is non-residential other than from 100 e
73                                                                                  feet
   g.   Helipad                                                               200
                                                                                    feet
   h.   Access "ring" road from Route 73                                      50
                                                                                    feet**
   i.   Access "ring" road where adjacent use or zone is residential or non-  50
residential                                                                         feet**
   j.   Buildings, structures and surface parking from the rear and sides of
adjacent non- residential properties that have frontage on Route 73 and are not     25 feet
separated from the medical campus by right-of-way
   k.   Accessory public utility installations                                50
                                                                                    feet***
*   In order to ensure proper setbacks from residential or non-residential uses and/or
zones, the applicant shall submit a surrounding land use and zoning plan demonstrating the
setback requirements.
**   Access drives, a maximum of 25 feet in width, may be permitted within the area between
50 and 100 feet from the property line, provided that an enhanced berm a minimum of 6 feet
high is provided along with the buffer landscape required by §
154.006. The applicant must provide a typical cross section of the area.
***   Public utility structures, such as pumping stations approved by the Camden County
Municipal Utilities Authority must be surrounded by a landscaped area a minimum of 6 feet
in height
 
   (E)   Maximum height.
      (1)   At building setback: 50 feet.
      (2)   Height may increase by four feet for every five feet of additional
building setback to a maximum of 145 feet.
   (F)   Circulation. An internal access "ring road" is permitted to provide
access to areas of the site, provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   There may be no more than one major full movement access and one
secondary access with the "right in/right out" turning movements from Route 73
with an internal collector road connecting all areas of the campus.
      (2)   One full movement secondary access may be established along the
northern section of Dutchtown Road (runs in east-west direction), only if a
traffic signal is approved by the NJDOT and installed at the northern
intersection of Dutchtown Road and Route 73, if Dutchtown Road is widened and
improved to Township standards, and if Dutchtown Road is altered so that there
is not a continuous unbroken travel way from either of its intersections with
Route 73 and the other (i.e. two cul-de-sacs are created).
      (3)   Emergency and service access may also be permitted along the
northern section of Dutchtown Road, only if Dutchtown Road is altered so that
it is not a continuous unbroken travel way from either of its intersections
with Route 73 to the other as indicated in division (F)(2) above.
   (G)   Signage. Signage should comply with the requirements of §
150.15(H), except that if the development has more than one access point on
Route 73, and the access points are more than 500 feet apart, two freestanding
signs may be permitted. Functional and directional signs may be placed
throughout the development to facilitate traffic flow and navigation. The
Planning Board may grant a waiver to permit larger functional or directional
signage within the site where such signs promote the public health and safety.
   (H)   Parking. Parking shall be based upon the requirements of §
150.16, except shared parking may be utilized based upon ULI, ITE and other
reputable sources acceptable to the approving agency. Parking areas shall be
interconnected.
   (I)   Pedestrian access. There shall be a comprehensive pedestrian
circulation system connecting parking areas, health care facilities, open
spaces and public trans stop if applicable.
   (J)   Buffering. A 50-foot buffer shall be required within the setbacks from
Route 73 (Route 73 streetscape standards shall apply) and Dutchtown Road
consistent with §
154.006. A comprehensive landscape plan shall include all landscape material,
berms, walls and fencing.
   (K)   Route 73 street scape standards to apply. The provisions of §
154.006(F) shall apply.
   (L)   Route 73 building design standards to apply. The provisions of §
150.15(A) shall apply.
   (M)    Other design standards. To the extent applicable, the zone specific
design standards, set forth in §
152.146 (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), and (H) shall apply.
   (N)   Lighting. The provisions of §
154.007 shall apply.
   (O)   Affordable housing.  Any conditional use development shall satisfy the
requirements of the COAH Round III growth share obligation for affordable
housing for the non-hospital use portion of the development.
   (P)   Community uses.
      (1)   The applicant must provide for community benefits and uses. This
includes but is not limited to public gathering areas and facilities for public
activities which are generated or could be by the uses being developed. In
addition to providing spaces for these activities, ways and means shall be
provided for pedestrian linkages between these uses and the public areas.
Acceptable open space facilities may include but are not limited to jogging and
biking paths, interpretive trails, sidewalks, multi-purpose fields,
amphitheaters, gazebos, seating areas and plaza.
      (2)   Design and location of these facilities shall be consistent with
the overall development. In lieu thereof, the applicant may contribute a sum
equal to $2 per square foot of the gross floor area for the proposed square
footage in the development that is the subject of the application.
   (Q)   Maximum clearing limit. No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be reestablished in a relatively short period of
time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing board
to promote the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 110-07, passed 7-9-07; Am. Ord. 182-11, passed 3-28-11; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 152.104 CONDITIONAL USES NOT REQUIRING GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   Hotels.
      (1)   Conditions of use. Hotels shall be permitted provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   The location of the hotel must be either on the west side of
Route 73 north of the northerly most intersection of Dutchtown Road with Route
73 to the northenmost Township line or on the east side of Route 73 to the
north of the RR-Rural Residential Zoning District found at Block 229.01, Lots
19 and 20.
         (b)   Minimum lot size of ten contiguous acres which may be assembled
and shall be consolidated as part of any development approvals.
         (c)   Principal building must be set back a minimum of 500 feet from a
residential zone within Voorhees Township.
         (d)   A minimum of three stories and a maximum of five stories.
         (e)   Occupancy shall be limited to no more than 30 consecutive days
regardless of any room or unit changes by such occupant during any such time
period.
         (f)   Each hotel shall keep and maintain records of the names,
addresses and dates of occupancy for all persons who occupy a room or unit at
such hotel. Said records shall be produced for inspection to the Township
Zoning Officer or such other person as designated by the Township
Administrator. Said records shall be produced for copying to the Township
Zoning Officer or such other person as designated by the Township Administrator
should there be a determination by the enforcement officer that a violation of
the occupancy limitation has occurred. However, in the event of a declared
federal, state, county or local emergency, the Township Zoning Officer may
waive the limits upon the duration of any occupancy during said state of
emergency.
         (g)   Individual units or rooms shall not contain a range-top cooking
facility, but may contain microwave ovens and mini-refrigerators as an amenity.
         (h)   The hotel shall meet the definition of HOTEL under §
150.10.
         (i)   If the hotel is part of a planned commercial development, the
minimum lot size shall be ten acres which may be assembled and shall be
consolidated as part of the development approvals.
   (B)   Area and bulk standards.
      (1)   Minimum frontage: 300 feet;
      (2)   Minimum front-yard: 75 feet;
      (3)   Minimum size-yard: 75 feet;
      (4)   Minimum rear-yard: 100 feet;
      (5)   Minimum height: 45 feet;
      (6)   Maximum height: 60 feet.
      (7)   Parking setbacks: As provided for in §
152.102(A).
(Ord. 182-11, passed 3-28-11; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
TC - TOWNSHIP CENTER
§ 152.131 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the TC – Township Center Zone is to create a
balanced development of one or more commercial, limited industrial, public,
recreational and residential uses in convenient and complementary relation to
each other and to other districts of the township in order to encourage
imaginative, efficient and orderly physical growth within the township and to
satisfy the increasing demand for goods and services, housing, recreation and
employment. The Township Center Zone is intended to provide for a balanced
combination of commercial, limited industrial, public, recreational and
residential uses in single districts suited by their size, location and
topography for unified development as centers of commerce, housing, employment
and community life within the township. Any development in this zone shall
adhere to the design principles of transit-oriented traditional neighborhood
development.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 85-06,
passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.132 PERMITTED USES
   (A)   Professional and business offices and studios.
   (B)   Theaters, clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants, cafeterias, coffee
shops, cocktail lounges and buildings and installations for indoor recreational
use, including bowling alleys, tennis courts, swimming pools, skating rinks and
the like.
   (C)   Banks, trust companies, savings and loan associations and other
financial establishments.
   (D)   Showrooms for the sale of new automobiles, with or without related
used care sales areas; or tire, battery, and/or automobile parts and accessory
stores, service garages or gasoline filling stations, each of which may be
independent of the other or may be operated together in any combination
thereof.
   (E)   Public utilities and services necessary for the service of the
Township Center Zone, but not including public utility activities of an
industrial character, such as repair and maintenance yards, classification
yards or roundhouses.
   (F)   Research and development establishments, testing laboratories and
other activities, of a limited industrial character not involving the emission
of any toxic or corrosive fumes, gas, smoke, odor, obnoxious dust or vapor,
offensive noise or vibration, glare, flashes or objectionable effluents.
   (G)   Townhouses (whether configured and marketed as fee simple,
condominium, cooperative or rental units).
   (H)   Apartments (whether designed as efficiency, one-bedroom, two-bedroom
or three-bedroom style) in buildings classified as low-rise (not more than two
stories), mid-rise (not more than four stories) or high rise (five stories or
greater). For purposes of this section, units which are on a floor either
totally or partially below grade level are considered part of the first story
of the building.
   (I)   Parks, playgrounds, open spaces and recreational or amusement
facilities such as ponds, lakes, marinas, swimming pools, tennis courts,
bowling greens, football and baseball fields and the like.
   (J)   Churches and other places of worship, and eleemosynary, charitable and
philanthropic institutions, including libraries and museums.
   (K)   Nursery and pre-schools, kindergartens and elementary and secondary
schools.
   (L)   Medical and dental clinics, nursing homes, child day care centers and
hospitals.
   (M)   Fire stations, police stations, post offices, telephone and telegraph
offices, telephone exchange buildings, passenger bus stations, taxicab stands,
electric substations and other public and municipal buildings.
   (N)   Parking garages, parking lots and multilevel parking structures when
accessory to other permitted commercial, retail and shopping center uses,
provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The maximum height limitation shall be 60% of the height of the
principal structure, but in no event shall the height be greater than five
levels of parking above grade, including any rooftop parking as one level.
      (2)   Ramps for the movement of vehicles between parking levels shall be
located entirely within the parking structure. No parking structure shall be
permitted helical ramps.
      (3)   Parking structures shall be designed to minimize blank concrete
facades through the use of innovative architectural detail and shall achieve a
compatibility with the principal structure to the extent that the parking
facility shall be clearly identified with the principal use.
      (4)   To the greatest extent possible, the first level of parking shall
be located below grade to minimize the impact of the structure on adjacent land
uses.
      (5)   Any parking structures containing 800 parking spaces or more shall
provide a pedestrian walkway grade separated from any entrance or internal
collector drive and which connects the parking facility with the principal
structure or structures served.
      (6)   Parking structures shall conform to the minimum setback
requirements of the respective zone with the added provision that, for every 10
feet or portion thereof in excess of 30 feet in height, all yard setbacks (with
respect to the parking structure only) shall be increased 10 feet.
   (O)   Shopping centers and retail commercial uses.
   (P)   On any particular lot or structure on which a residential use exists
as of July 1, 1999, only residential uses are permitted.
   (Q)   On any particular lot or structure on which a non-residential use
exists as of July 1, 1999, only non-residential uses are permitted.
   (R)   On any particular lot or structure that is vacant or undeveloped as of
July 1, 1999, only non-residential uses are permitted.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 85-06,
passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 287-16, passed 9-12-16)
§ 152.133 (RESERVED).
§ 152.134 DENSITY.
   (A)   The following shall be the maximum density permitted in any
residential development completed in the TC-Township Center Zone:
      (1)   Multi-family residential in either townhouse style or low-rise
apartment building or assisted living style configuration: 6.7 units per acre.
      (2)   Multi-family residential in mid-rise or high rise apartment
building configuration: 1.7 units per acre.
      (3)   The density for all other residential dwelling units is zero units
per acre. Despite the foregoing, any lot existing as of April 12, 1999, or
subject to the protection provided under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq., which
otherwise conforms to the area and bulk standards of the TC-Township Center
Zone, will not be deemed non-conforming as to density. The subdivision of any
vacant land in the TC - Township Center Zone from and after April 12, 1999 must
conform to the maximum density requirements of the TC – Township Center Zone as
provided in this section.
   (B)   For purposes of computing the acreage to be used as the base for
determining if a development meets the density requirements of this section,
the total horizontal area of the land within the TC – Township Center Zone,
including all accessory uses, internal streets, parking areas, ponds, storm
water drainage facilities and recreation, and open space areas, shall be
included.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 1-24-00)
§ 152.135 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Zone wide standards. The minimum tract area for development shall be
three acres.
   (B)   Minimum lot size:
      (1)   1,000 square feet for townhouse style residences.
      (2)   10,000 square feet for all other lots.
   (C)   Minimum lot frontage.
      (1)   For townhouse style residential dwellings: no minimum.
      (2)   For all other development: 100 feet.
   (D)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of- way;
         (b)   50 feet from county right-of-way;
         (c)   30 feet from any other right-of- way.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet for all non-residential structures from residential use
properties;
         (b)   15 feet for all other structures.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   50 feet for all non-residential structures from any residential
use properties;
         (b)   15 feet for all other structures.
      (4)   Special setback requirements:
         (a)   No building within any residential development in the TC-
Township Center Zone except townhouses, and no buildings devoted to use as part
of a regional shopping center shall be set back less than 15 feet from any lot
boundary. No setback shall be required from any lot boundary lying between two
lots within a regional shopping center, or between two lots developed or to be
developed with townhouses. No structure shall be located closer than 30 feet
from another structure except within a regional shopping center.
         (b)   Whenever a boundary or portion thereof of any lot devoted or to
be devoted to non-residential use or to improvements exceeding 35 feet in
height coincides with the boundary at any MDR-Medium Density Residential Zone
adjoining a TC-Township Center Zone, no building shall be located within 100
feet of such lot boundary or portion thereof in the TC-Township Center Zone,
except that such 100 foot distance may be reduced by one-half the width of any
street right-of-way which lies on or between such boundaries.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any other requirements above, when a
predominantly nonresidential building abuts a residential use the setback shall
be increased beyond the minimum of 50 feet by the same distance as the height
exceeds 35 feet.
   (E)   Minimum buffer width and location requirement: 25 feet of buffer must
be provided within the setback between commercial developments and any existing
residential development within the TC-Township Center Zone.
   (F)   Minimum gross floor area (all floors).
      (1)   For townhouses only:
         (a)   Two-bedroom style: 1,200 square feet;
         (b)   Three-bedroom style: 1,350 square feet;
         (c)   Four-bedroom style: 1,500 square feet.
      (2)   For purposes of measurement of gross floor area, the gross floor
area shall be measured from the center of a wall common to two townhouse units
and from the exterior of other walls.
   (G)   Maximum height limitation;
      (1)   Maximum building height: 75 feet for all buildings. Despite the
foregoing, any building existing as of February 1, 2000, or subject to the
protection provided under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq., which otherwise conforms
to the area and bulk and standards of the TC-Township Center Zone from and
after February 1, 2000 must conform to the maximum building height of the TC-
Township Center Zone as provided in this section.
      (2)   Maximum height accessory structures: The top of any flagpole, radio
or television antenna, light tower or pole, monument, identification symbol,
dome, parapet, balustrade, chimney, elevator or stair shaft, water tower,
cooling tower or utility enclosure, shall not be higher than 20 feet above the
highest point of the roof of the building supporting such structure.
   (H)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (I)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (J)   Minimum parking setback: 25 feet.
   (K)   Open space requirements: Not less than 10% of any new development
approved after January 1, 2006 shall be set aside for open space. No land shall
be deemed to have been set aside for open space uses under this section unless
the required open space use areas are either publicly owned or have been
dedicated to public use or are located on an improved lot or are subject to
appropriate restrictions or covenants assuring that a private person, firm,
association, corporation or agency will be responsible for the maintenance of
such areas as long as the dwelling units creating the need for the open space
uses are in existence. Open space uses required by this chapter to be
established in a TC- Township Center Zone may be located on the same lot or
lots as the use creating the need for such parking spaces, loading spaces or
open space uses, or on a different lot or lots within the TC-Township Center
Zone.
   (L)   Maximum building configuration: No more than eight townhouse units
shall be contained in one townhouse structure. In any section of townhouse
constructions, no more than 20% of the townhouse units shall be contained in
structures comprising more than six units; no more than 50% of the townhouse
units shall be contained in structures comprising five or six units.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 6-2000,
passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 90-06, passed 7-24-06)
§ 152.136 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Outdoor storage. No products, materials, supplies, equipment, goods or
other items shall be stored outside the confines of any building or permanent
structure on the lot. No trailers or storage containers may be located on any
property within the TC – Township Center Zone.
   (B)   Tractor trailer parking. Tractor trailers may be parked only (a) in a
designated loading area during the course of making a delivery or loading goods
for transport or (b) in an area designated on the finally approved site plan
for the development as a “tractor trailer parking area”.
   (C)   Architectural compatibility. Any development shall be constructed in
accordance with an overall architectural plan such that the facades, roof
lines, architectural detail and landscaping of each building shall be
compatible with all other existing or proposed buildings on the site.
   (D)   Grouping. The principal and accessory buildings shall be arranged in a
group or groups such that no building shall be less than 30 feet from any other
building.
   (E)   Utilities. All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
   (F)   Mechanical screening. All mechanical equipment, whether placed on the
ground, roof or other location, shall be screened from ground level view with
an acceptable material compatible with the architectural scheme of the
development.
   (G)   Trash enclosures. All trash and recycling containers shall be enclosed
in accordance with the Township design standards for trash enclosures. Trash
and recycling pick up may only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any State or Federal regulations.
   (H)   Shared parking. Shared parking may be permitted as determined by the
reviewing board.
   (I)   Outdoor storage. No products, materials or goods shall be stored or
displayed outside of the confines of the building or structure on the premises.
   (J)   Conditions. The reviewing board may impose more restrictive conditions
or any further reasonable conditions to the effect of noise, traffic movement
and volume, lighting and/or intensity of such conditional activities on
adjacent land uses and may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure compliance
with such restrictions or conditions.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 1-24-00)
§ 152.137 ADOPTION OF REDEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Adoption of redevelopment plan.
      (1)   Planning Board recommendations. The Township Committee hereby
adopts by reference and incorporates the same herein as if set forth at length,
the Planning Board's Resolution No. 03-032 and the report incorporated therein.
In adopting said recommendations, the Township Committee hereby declares and
determines that same meet the criteria, guidelines and conditions set forth at
N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-7; that they provide realistic opportunities for redevelopment
in said area when combined with other initiatives set forth in this section;
and that, when combined with the balance of this section, are otherwise in
conformance with the provision of the Local Redevelopment and Housing Law,
N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-1 et seq. The Township Committee has received information from
the owner of the Echelon Mall and hereby finds that the vacancy rates have
increased since the time of the issuance of the report.
      (2)   Goals and objectives of subject redevelopment area. The
Redevelopment and Housing Law provides that no redevelopment project shall be
undertaken except in accordance with a redevelopment plan adopted by ordinance.
The redevelopment plan is required to indicate "its relationship to definite
local objectives as to appropriate land uses, density of population and
improved traffic and public transportation, public utilities, recreation and
community facilities and other public improvements." The following are the
goals and objectives of the subject redevelopment area:
         (a)   To create a Town Center Redevelopment Overlay Zone to provide
use and design standards for a mixed use development consisting of residential,
commercial, office, recreational, civic and related development plans and
encourage innovative design and planning in order to promote a revitalization
of the area while at the same time, provide the necessary safeguards and buffer
to lessen the impact on the surrounding residential developments.
         (b)   Within the mixed use environment, emphasis will be on improved
pedestrian circulation, attractive civic bases, squares, greens and a special
sense of community and identity.
         (c)   To reduce dependence on the automobile by providing living,
shopping, employment and recreational opportunities within walking distance,
generally located in a compact, mixed-use town center.
         (d)   To encourage the creation of a principal or main street with
sidewalks and public spaces for a variety of commercial, civic, outdoor and
pedestrian uses and activities.
         (e)   Prevent further stagnation of the Echelon Mall and its
surroundings.
         (f)   Facilitate better utilization of the Echelon Mall by taking
advantage of existing infrastructure such as public water and sanitary sewer
facilities.
         (g)   Improve the health and welfare and economic well being of the
residents of Voorhees and the surrounding region by providing additional tax
revenues and other benefits which will lead to improved municipal services and
tax stability.
         (h)   Increase employment opportunities in Voorhees and the
surrounding communities.
      (3)   Zoning ordinance relationship. Where a conflict exists this
redevelopment plan shall supercede the applicable sections of the Unified Land
Development Ordinance (ULDO) as applied to Block 150.01, Lots 1, 2, 2.01, 3,
3.01, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 (hereinafter referred to as "redevelopment
area"):
         (a)   Permitted land uses. The redevelopment area shall contain a
mixture of non-residential and residential uses which may be provided in
buildings that are either wholly non-residential, wholly residential or a
mixture of uses. In the case of a mixed-use building, multi-family dwellings
consisting of attached townhouse dwellings, apartments or condominiums shall be
provided over shops and other nonresidential uses. Permitted uses in the
redevelopment area shall be the following:
            1.   Professional and business offices and studios.
            2.   Theaters, clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants, cafeterias,
coffee shops and/or cocktail lounges.
            3.   Banks and other financial establishments.
            4.   Indoor recreational uses.
            5.   Public utilities and services necessary for the service of the
redevelopment area.
            6.   Parks, playgrounds, open spaces and outdoor recreational or
amusement facilities.
            7.   Nursery and pre-schools, kindergartens, elementary and
secondary schools and child care centers.
            8.   Medical and dental clinics, nursing homes and hospitals.
            9.   Fire stations, police stations, post offices and other public
and municipal buildings.
            10.   Parking garages, parking lots and multi-level parking
structures when accessory to other permitted uses in the redevelopment area
provided that the conditions in §
152.132(P) are met.
            11.   Shopping centers and retail/ service uses (not including
gasoline filling stations).
            12.   Multi-family dwelling units, limited to apartments,
condominiums and attached townhouse dwellings.
            13.   Houses of worship.
         (b)   Special mixed use requirement. In no event shall any development
in the redevelopment area consist solely of permitted residential uses set
forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section. In addition, the total square
footage of permitted residential uses shall not exceed the total square footage
of permitted nonresidential uses in the redevelopment area. (The amount of
existing non-residential development which will remain in any application for
development may be counted toward this requirement).
         (c)   Phasing. There shall be no phasing limits on non-residential
development that is in accordance with an approved site plan for the
redevelopment area, subject to the following:
            1.   No more than 50% of the certificates of occupancy for
residential units shall be issued before building permits for at least 25% of
the new nonresidential development have been issued. In the case of mixed-use
buildings, the gross floor area of the building shall be determined by the uses
indicated on the approved site plan.
            2.   No more than 75% of the certificates of occupancy for
residential units shall be issued before building permits for at least 50% of
the new non-residential development have been issued. This shall be apportioned
in accordance with the same formulas set forth in division (A)(3)(c)1. above.
         (d)   Density. Residential density shall not exceed 425 units in the
total redevelopment area. Residential development and uses shall be limited to
an area located east of an imaginary line drawn perpendicular to Somerdale
Road, at a point 1,000 feet west of the southwestern corner of the intersection
of Somerdale and Echelon Roads as shown on Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance No.
86-06, passed May 22, 2006.
         (e)   Area and bulk standards. It is the intention of these
regulations to accommodate a planned and coordinated development plan for the
entire redevelopment area and the area and bulk standards specified herein
shall apply in lieu of the standards in §
152.135. Accordingly, the standards below are intended to apply to the entire
redevelopment area and nothing herein shall be interpreted to prohibit the
subdivision of all or portions of the property or improvements within the
redevelopment area; to prohibit the creation of residential or commercial
condominiums within the redevelopment area; or to require street frontage or
setbacks for said subdivisions or condominiums.
            1.   Minimum tract size: 50 acres.
            2.   Building setbacks for redevelopment area boundary only.
               A.   Minimum setback from perimeter roads.
                  (i)   Along a county right-of-way, the minimum setback shall
be:
                     a.   Fifty feet for any residential building opposite a
residential building on the opposing side of the street;
                     b.   Fifty feet for any non-residential building opposite
a non-residential building on the opposing side of the street provided,
however, that an accessory canopy may be located not less than 25-feet from a
county right-of-way; and
                     c.   One hundred feet for any non-residential building
opposite a residential building on the opposing side of the street.
                  (ii)   Along a local right-of-way, the minimum setback shall
be:
                     a.   Twenty-five feet for any residential building
opposite a residential building on the opposing side of the street;
                     b.   Twenty-five feet for any non-residential building
opposite a non-residential building on the opposing side of the street; and
                     c.   Forty feet for any non-residential building opposite
a residential building on the opposing side of the street.
            3.   Minimum buffer width and location requirement: 25 feet within
the setback from any residentially zoned or residentially developed property.
Nothing herein shall require the removal of any existing legally non-conforming
areas of impervious coverage, which may remain.
            4.   Maximum height limitation:
               A.   Buildings that are located less than 150 feet from any
perimeter right-of-way: 50 feet and three stories, exclusive of under-building
parking.
               B.   Buildings that are located 150 feet or more from any
perimeter right-of-way: 75 feet and five stories, exclusive of under-building
parking.
            5.   Maximum impervious coverage shall be 90%.
            6.   Minimum parking setbacks shall be 25 feet except where it is
an existing condition which may remain.
            7.   Minimum distance between buildings:
               A.   Front wall to front wall: 50 feet; and
               B.   Minimum separation of all other building walls: 25 feet.
            8.   Maximum building size. No retail store that contains more than
100,000 square feet of gross buildable area at full build-out and which will
function as a single retail establishment may be erected or constructed in the
area of the redevelopment area located east of an imaginary line drawn
perpendicular to Somerdale Road, at a point 1,000 feet west of the southwestern
corner of the intersection of Somerdale and Echelon Roads as shown on the
Exhibit attached to Ordinance No. 86-06, passed May 22, 2006.
            9.   Public spaces. For the purposes of this redevelopment plan,
public space shall be defined as open space, green areas, plazas or other
similar spaces within view of the street or other public place and accessible
by pedestrians and which can be occupied by people. The amount of 20 square
feet of public space shall be provided in addition to required sidewalks for
every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area of the new development. The public
space shall be appropriately located so that it is easily accessible to the
maximum number of residents and visitors to the development. The configuration
of the public space should be so arranged that the connections can be made to
existing or future adjacent public spaces where desirable. Portions of the
public space should be developed to afford both passive and active recreational
opportunities. The usage of public space should be appropriate for but not
limited to, the residents of the development.
            10.   Parking standards:
               A.   Residential. The required off-street parking spaces for
residential uses within the redevelopment area shall comply with the
Residential Site Improvement Standards (N.J.A.C. 5:21-1.1 et seq.).
               B.   Non-residential. The required off-street parking spaces for
non-residential development in the redevelopment area shall be not less than
four off-street parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of non-residential uses
including shared parking provided that at least part of the parking lot
containing the off-site shared parking spaces is located within 300 feet of the
redevelopment area. Shared parking shall not constitute more than 25% of the
required off-street parking. Surface parking shall not exceed 110% of the
minimum parking requirements for the particular land use.
               C.   A maximum of 65% of the land area of the redevelopment area
may be used for vehicular access and parking.
               D.   No parking space shall be less than nine feet wide and 18
feet deep.
            11.   A maximum of 25% of the land area of the redevelopment area
may be utilized for buildings.
            12.   The multi-family dwellings shall be subject to the following
bedroom limitation:
               A.   Twenty-five percent minimum one bedroom;
               B.   Sixty-five percent maximum two bedroom. (A two bedroom unit
with a home office/den will be subject to the two bedroom unit maximum); and
               C.   Ten percent maximum three bedroom.
         (f)   Zone specific design standards.
            1.   Residential. Each multi-family building including buildings
with mixed uses shall have a compatible architectural style with variations and
designs to provide attractiveness to the development which shall include
consideration of landscaping techniques, building orientation to the site and
to other structures, topography, natural features and individual dwelling unit
design, such as varying unit widths, staggering unit setbacks, providing
different exterior materials, changing roof lines and roof designs, altering
building heights and changing types of windows, shutters, doors, colors and
vertical or horizontal orientation of the facade, singularly or in combination
of each building.
            2.   Non-residential. The design standards required for non-
residential development in the ULDO shall not apply in the redevelopment area
and are replaced with the design standards contained herein.
            3.   Vehicular circulation. There shall be at least one major
boulevard provided within the redevelopment area that shall accommodate
shopping and other residential, recreational and public activity. There shall
be other street connections within the redevelopment area to accommodate and
promote efficient circulation between the mixture of uses that are allowed in
the redevelopment area. The limitations in §
154.010(B) on the number of entrance drives and their length, exclusive of
maneuvering areas for parking, shall not be applicable upon a showing by the
applicant and a finding by the reviewing board that no unsafe conditions are
created.
            4.   Pedestrian access. In order to promote direct, convenient,
attractive, safe and a comfortable system of pedestrian facilities and
amenities, the following shall apply:
               A.   Each building shall have at least one primary entrance
facing the street or which is directly accessed by a sidewalk or plaza within
20 feet of the primary entrance. Buildings such as supermarkets, daycare
centers, and other free-standing commercial uses that require direct access to
the parking lot shall be excused from this requirement, provided that
pedestrian access is provided to the redevelopment area and to adjacent
portions of the TC District.
               B.   Building entrances shall open directly to the outside;
every building shall have at least one entrance that does not require passage
through a parking lot or garage to gain access and corner buildings shall have
corner entrances whenever possible. Although exterior entrances shall be
provided for all buildings, individual nonresidential establishments or
residential flats may have access to interior corridors or enclosed malls.
               C.   Sidewalks and/or plazas shall be provided with appropriate
pedestrian amenities such as street tree well cutouts, space for outdoor
seating, waiting areas, trash receptacles, benches, light posts, water
features, fountains and other such amenities shall be provided.
               D.   Except for the exemptions provided in division A. above,
parking and vehicle drives shall be located away from building entrances and
not between a building entrance and the street except as may be allowed when a
direct pedestrian connection is provided from the sidewalk to the building
entrance.
               E.   Surface parking shall be oriented behind or to the side of
the building when appropriate.
               F.   There shall be a system of pedestrian linkages or walkways
designed to accommodate the mixture of uses provided in the redevelopment area.
            5.   Outdoor storage. No products, materials, supplies, equipment,
goods or other items shall be stored or displayed outside the confines of any
building or permanent structures in the redevelopment area except restaurant
outdoor seating, approved garden centers sales areas and areas used for
temporary seasonal outdoor sales. No permanent trailers or storage containers
may be located on any property within the redevelopment area. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit residential storage areas when accessory
to a dwelling unit or existing commercial storage areas provided, however that
no sheds shall be allowed in the redevelopment area.
            6.   Commercial tractor-trailer parking. Commercial tractor-
trailers other than moving vans, may only be parked in a designated loading
area during the course of making a delivery or loading goods for transport.
            7.   Architectural compatibility. All development shall be
constructed in accordance with an overall architectural plan such that the
facades, roof lines, architectural detail and landscaping of each building
shall be compatible with all existing or proposed buildings on the site. The
applicant shall submit architectural drawings showing the overall unified
architectural theme of the redevelopment area. This may be in the form of
illustrations and sketches. Consistent therewith, there shall be a consistent
architectural theme or combination of styles, architectural elements and
details. All buildings shall relate generally to the established architectural
theme, including signs, light posts and other site elements. All buildings
shall be harmoniously related to each other and the existing and proposed road
networks as well as the public spaces and other civic spaces.
            8.   Utilities. All utilities servicing the redevelopment area
shall be located underground.
            9.   Mechanical screening. All mechanical equipment whether placed
on the ground, roof or other location, shall be screened from the ground level
view with an acceptable material compatible with the architectural scheme of
the development.
            10.   Trash enclosures. Refuse storage areas shall be suitably
located and arranged for access and ease of collection and shall not be a part
of, restrict or occupy any parking isle and shall not be located further than
300 feet from an exterior entrance to any building which it is intended to
serve and shall be screened from ground view and shall otherwise be in
accordance with the Township design standards for trash enclosures.
            11.   Conditions. The Reviewing Board may waive any of the zone
specific design standards when necessary to accomplish the overall goals and
objectives of this redevelopment plan.
         (g)   Buffer and landscape design standards. The buffer and landscape
design standards of the ULDO may be modified by the Reviewing Board to
accomplish the intent of a mixed-use town center and when necessary, to
accommodate existing site conditions. In particular, the Reviewing Board may
waive or modify the special buffer provisions between large-scale non-
residential and residential uses as provided for in §
154.006(A)(8). In addition, the parking lot landscaping requirements of §
154.006(B)(8) and §
154.010(B) shall be viewed in the context of the entire development. Well-
landscaped parking facilities shall be created, but the required landscaping
shall be determined by the Reviewing Board in the context of the overall
landscape plan and not according to any predetermined formulas. The
compensatory planting requirements specified in §
154.006(E)(1) and (2) may be modified by the Reviewing Board in consideration
of the preservation of existing mature landscaping in the redevelopment area.
         (h)   Lighting. The lighting standards of the ULDO may be modified by
the Reviewing Board to accomplish the intent of a mixed-use town center and
when necessary to accommodate existing site conditions. Existing non-conforming
lighting fixtures shall be permitted to remain.
         (i)   Signage. The sign standards of the ULDO shall apply.
         (j)   Site plan and subdivision. Chapter 156 of the ULDO shall apply
including the requirement that the applicant for development shall supply an
environmental impact report and traffic studies as are required in the ULDO.
The traffic study shall contain a comprehensive analysis of all roadways and
intersections that will be impacted as a result of the development in the
redevelopment area as well as the internal pedestrian and traffic circulation
patterns and access to and from the redevelopment area. In the event the
traffic studies, in the opinion of the Reviewing Board's professionals, require
traffic improvements as a result of development in the redevelopment area, the
applicant shall be required to pay its fair share cost of those improvements
resulting from development in the redevelopment area. The applicant shall be
required to modify its plan to the extent that the Reviewing Board determines
that the development of the redevelopment area may cause or tend to cause an
unsafe traffic condition.
         (k)   Fiscal impact statement. The applicant for development shall
provide a fiscal report estimating the demand on the municipal services to be
generated by the development and any financial impacts to be faced by the
Township or the local and regional school districts as a result of the
development including a projection of tax revenues for the Township, local and
regional school districts, fire district and county according to a projected
timing schedule for completion of the development shall be provided by the
applicant for development.
         (l)   Timing schedule. The applicant for development shall provide a
proposed timing schedule including the terms and conditions intended to protect
the interests of the public and the residents and non-resident occupants of any
section of the development prior to completion of each section as well as prior
to completion of the entire development. Each section of the development shall
coordinate the applicant's interest with the public interest and such things as
the size of each phase, financing costs, bonding and mixed uses with logical
infrastructure improvements that function properly at the end of each section.
Logical infrastructures shall include, but not be limited to, the water
distribution system and fire hydrants, sewage collection and treatment system,
coordinated on-site circulation systems, off-tract road improvements, dedicated
open space, and stabilized soil and stormwater control facilities.
         (m)   Affordable housing. Any development shall meet the COAH Round
III Growth Share Obligation for Affordable Housing. In accordance with COAH
regulations, these obligations shall be computed only upon the increases in
residential and non-residential use.
         (n)   Compliance with ULDO. All other requirements of the ULDO not
inconsistent herewith shall apply.
         (o)   Community and recreation uses. The applicant shall provide for
community and recreation uses. This includes but is not limited to public
gathering areas and facilities for public activities which are generated or
could be generated by the proposed development. In addition to providing spaces
for these activities, ways and means shall be provided for pedestrian linkages
between these uses and the public areas. Acceptable recreation and open space
facilities may include but are not limited to jogging and biking paths,
playgrounds, parks, courts, interpretive trails, sidewalks, multi-purpose
fields, amphitheaters, gazebos, seating areas and plazas. The design and
location of these facilities shall be consistent with the overall development
of the redevelopment area. In lieu thereof, the Reviewing Board may require
that the applicant contribute a sum equal to $2 per square foot of the gross
area for the proposed square footage of non-residential development that is the
subject of the application and $1,000 for each dwelling unit that is the
subject of the application. Any existing construction being demolished,
renovated or refurbished shall not be credited towards or assessed against the
contribution. The contribution shall be made at the time of the issuance of
building permits and for an amount equal to that required for the gross floor
area for which the building permit is issued.
         (p)   Special event permit. In furtherance of the goals of the
Redevelopment Plan to promote the use of a main street with sidewalks and
public spaces for a variety of commercial, civic, outdoor and pedestrian uses
and activities in order to encourage pedestrian activity and create a special
sense of community and identity, a special event permit may be issued by the
Voorhees Township Zoning Officer, subject to the review and approval of such
other Township departments and/or officials as may be necessary to ensure the
health, safety and general welfare of the participating public as provided for
herein.
            1.   A special event permit may be issued for special events such
as, but not limited to, the following:
               a.   Movie nights;
               b.   Theme events;
               c.    Community parades;
               d.    Automobile shows and/or displays;
               e.   Street festivals, with or without alcohol;
               f.   Outdoor markets;
               g,    Charitable sporting events, such as walks or runs;
               h.   arts and/or crafts shows; and
               i.    temporary specialized sales, such as Christmas tree sales.
            2.   At least ten business days before the commencement/start date
of any proposed special event, an applicant seeking a special event permit
shall submit the following application and/or documentation to the Voorhees
Township Zoning Office for review by the Zoning Officer:
               a.    Zoning permit application, along with the required fee
therefor, in the name of the business and/or group organizing the proposed
special event;
               b.    Name, address and contact information for all businesses,
groups and/or contractors/subcontractors participating in and/or providing
services for the proposed special event;
               c.   A sketch and/or plan showing the location of the proposed
special event and such other information requested by the Zoning Officer;
               d.    All date(s) of the proposed special event and, for each
such date, the proposed starting and ending times on each day of the event;
               e.    Proof of compliance with the requirements, if any, of any
state, county or other local governmental agency with jurisdiction over the
type of special event proposed by the applicant;
               f.   A security and parking plan for the event; and
               g.    Evidence that the applicant has notified all property
owners within the Town Center Redevelopment Overlay Zone and, for a special
event on Town Center Boulevard, all commercial tenants located thereon as
required below.
            3.    All special events and/or special event permittees shall
comply with the following:
               a.   The maximum length of any special event permit shall not
exceed two consecutive weeks;
               b.    special events shall occur only between the hours of 10:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on
Sundays;
               c.   All applicants shall be responsible for providing written
notice of the applicant's intent to apply for a special event permit to all
property owners within the Town Center Redevelopment Overlay Zone and, for a
special event on Town Center Boulevard, all commercial tenants located thereon.
The notice required by this section shall be provided at least three business
days before the applicant files an application for a special events permit with
the Zoning Office and proof thereof shall be submitted with the application.
The notice required by this section shall include the type of special event
proposed and the location, date(s) and time(s) of the proposed special event
and shall indicate the date upon which the special event permit application
will be filed with the Voorhees Township Zoning Office;
               d.   The permittee shall be solely responsible for providing
trash and sanitary facilities for the length of any special event and shall be
solely responsible for all trash removal and sanitary facility clean-up during
and after the event;
               e.   The permittee shall be solely responsible for providing
security during the special event; and
               f.   The permittee shall comply with all other requirements of
the Voorhees Township Code and the Unified Land Development Ordinance except to
the extent inconsistent herewith.
            4.   No special event permit shall be issued unless the Zoning
Officer finds:
               a.   All submission requirements set forth herein have been
satisfied;
               b.   The notice requirement set forth herein has been satisfied;
               c.   The issuance of any such permit for any one or more special
event(s) will not create a health or safety issue or create the potential of an
undue burden on any municipal, county and/or volunteer emergency management
services; and
               d.   The applicant does not have a negative history with respect
to any prior special event permit application and/or special event operated by
the applicant and/or any principals thereof.
      (4)   Deviations from provisions of redevelopment plan. The Planning
Board shall review and retain jurisdiction over applications requiring relief
for deviations, other than with respect to permitted uses, from this
redevelopment plan or other Township development ordinances. Accordingly, an
amendment to the redevelopment plan shall not be necessary if the applicant for
development desires to deviate from the bulk provisions or design standards set
forth in this redevelopment plan or the pertinent sections of the ULDO or other
Township development ordinances. All requests for such relief shall be made to
the Planning Board accompanied by a complete application for development as
otherwise required by the ULDO. Decisions on such requests shall be made in
accordance with the legal standards set forth in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70c. in the
case of requests for relief from zoning standards, and in accordance with the
legal standards set forth in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-51 in the case of requests for
relief from design standards.
      (5)   Master plan relationship.
         (a)   State Plan. This redevelopment plan is in concert with the
intentions and policy objectives articulated for the Metropolitan Planning Area
(PA1) of the State of New Jersey Development and Redevelopment Plan, within
which the redevelopment zone is situated, to the extent that the plan promotes
revitalization within a compact core, retention of the existing business as
well as attraction of new business, stabilization of an older suburb, and
protection of the character of an existing stable community. A number of other
principles of the State of New Jersey Development and Redevelopment Plan will
be fulfilled by this redevelopment plan including but not limited to the
prevention of pollution through a more efficient, mixed-use development,
revitalization of an existing community, conservation of resources by
increasing development in already built areas while protecting the character of
those areas by imposing upgraded design standards.
         (b)   County Plan. Camden County does not maintain a County Master
Plan.
         (c)   Voorhees Township Master Plan. This redevelopment plan is
consistent with the Township Comprehensive Master Plan and subsequent updates
thereto, as the plan supports the planning policy goals of promoting economic
vitality through the encouragement of an appropriate mix of residential and
non-residential uses, and improvement of the community tax base through the
creation of new commercial uses realized in part from the provision of economic
enhancement opportunities. The Township Comprehensive Master Plan and
subsequent updates thereto also call for a re-evaluation of the design
standards for the Town Center Zone and for consideration of a new overall
planning imperative which would include traditional neighborhood design
concepts and standards.
      (6)   Amendment to the zoning district map. The Voorhees Township Zoning
District Map is hereby amended to indicate that the redevelopment area shall
have the designation of "Town Center Redevelopment" overlay.
   (B)   Powers and authority of Township in furtherance of redevelopment plan.
The Township Committee shall have and be entitled to, and is hereby vested
with, all powers and authority available to it in furtherance of the goals and
purposes of this redevelopment plan. The Township Committee is specifically
empowered with, and authorized to undertake, all such actions, proceedings, and
undertakings as set forth at N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-1 et seq., including by way of
example and not by way of limitation, those powers set forth at N.J.S.A. 40A:
12A-8, 40A:12A-9, 40A:12A-10, 40A:12A-13, 40A:12A-22, 40A:12A-27, 40A:12A-37,
40A:12A-38, 40A:12A-39, et seq. When necessary for the implementation of this
redevelopment plan, the Township Committee shall also have the power to enter
into a contract with a redeveloper for any construction or other work forming a
part of this redevelopment plan. In such an event, the redeveloper shall agree
to retain an interest in the project until the completion of construction and
development of the specific project. All mandatory requirements set forth in
N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-1 et seq., and specifically those set forth in N.J.S.A. 40A:
12A-9 are specifically incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Time limits. The redevelopment plan shall be fully implemented within
ten years from the date of the adoption of this redevelopment plan by the
Township Committee. Any termination of this redevelopment plan shall in no way
permit the land or structures in the redevelopment area to be restricted on the
basis of race, creed, color, gender, marital status, age, handicap, family
status, ancestry or national origin.
   (D)   Annual reports. Pursuant to the requirements of N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-43,
the Township shall submit an annual report to the Commissioner of the
Department of Community Affairs of the State of New Jersey indicating the name,
location, and size of all projects undertaken in the redevelopment area.
   (E)   Additional statutory requirements. As set forth below, the Town Center
Redevelopment Plan is in full compliance with state statutes.
      (1)   Definitions. The definitions provided for in N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-3 are
incorporated into this redevelopment plan by reference.
      (2)   Discrimination ban. No covenant, lease, conveyance or other
instruments shall be executed whereby land or structures within the
redevelopment area are restricted upon the basis of race, creed, color, gender,
age, handicap, family status, ancestry or national origin.
      (3)   Pre-existing approvals. Any plans approved by the Township or its
agencies prior to the adoption of this redevelopment plan shall not be subject
to the requirements of the redevelopment plan.
      (4)   Relationship of definite local objectives. The Town Center
Redevelopment Plan is a comprehensive plan that includes a complete description
of the relationship of the plan to the definite local objectives as to
appropriate land uses.
      (5)   Proposed land uses and building requirements. The redevelopment
plan includes maps and provisions sufficient to describe the land uses and
building requirements within the redevelopment area.
      (6)   Relationship to other plans. The Town Center Redevelopment Plan
contains text sufficient to describe its relationship to the State and
Municipal Master Plans. In addition, this redevelopment plan shall have no
detrimental effect on the master plans of contiguous municipalities or the
State Development and Redevelopment Plan.
      (7)   Relationship of Municipal Land Use Law. The Town Center
Redevelopment Plan describes its relationship to the Municipal Land Use Law
directly and as may be incorporated in the ULDO.
      (8)   Relocation provision. No residential occupancy relocation is
proposed in this redevelopment plan.
   (F)   Procedures for amending the plan. This plan may be amended or revised
from time to time in accordance with the requirements of law, provided that,
when the revision or amendment materially affects an owner with an interest in
the redevelopment area, the Township holds public hearings with notice to
owners whose interest therein is materially affected. Procedures for amending
the plan shall be as regulated in the Local Redevelopment and Housing Law
(N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-7).
   (G)   Escrow agreement. The redeveloper and the Township shall enter into an
escrow agreement providing for a reimbursement to the Township for all fees and
costs previously incurred or to be incurred by the Township for the preparation
and adoption of this redevelopment plan including but not limited to attorney's
fees, planner's fees, costs of noticing, publication and advertising and all
other fees and costs incident thereto.
(Ord. 86-06, passed 5-22-06; Am. Ord. 289-16, passed 10-17-16)
EIB - ECONOMIC INDUSTRIAL BUSINESS
§ 152.141 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of the EIB - Economic Industrial Business Zone
is to provide low intensity retail sales and businesses, light industrial and
warehousing uses in appropriate areas.
   (B)   The purpose and intent of the Comprehensive Retirement Community (CRC)
Overlay Zone within the EIB-Economic Business Zone, is intended to accomplish
the following purposes:
      (1)   Provide for a mix of housing types, that are designed to encourage
frequent, casual, and social interaction that forms the basis for a village
like community for active adults.
      (2)   Provide for a community with pedestrian-scale public spaces.
      (3)   Provide for a street pattern that is laid in a grid pattern, thus
allowing several routes to any destination.
      (4)   Provide for a streetscape that contains sidewalks, on-street
parking, landscaping, and architectural detailing.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 10-9-01)
§ 152.142 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Self service public storage facilities.
   (B)   Community recreation, excluding movie theaters, cinemas and arcades.
   (C)   Wholesaling.
   (D)   Research, development and testing laboratories.
   (E)   Vehicle repair facilities.
   (F)   Bulk laundry processing.
   (G)   Auction houses.
   (H)   Vehicle storage contained within a building.
   (I)   Administrative offices of commercial and industrial partnerships,
companies or corporations, offices of a recognized profession, including, but
not limited to, medicine, real estate, law, engineering, architectural and
planning, but not to include other licensed occupations, such as barbering,
general contracting or public movers, and offices of a public or quasi-public
entity so long as such offices are 25% or less of the total gross floor area
on-site.
   (J)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in the EIB-Economic
Industrial Business Zone.
      (1)   Movie theaters, cinemas and arcades;
      (2)   Fast-food and convenience stores;
      (3)   Residential uses, except when part of a Comprehensive Retirement
Community Overlay Zone within the EIB-Economic Industrial Business Zoning
District; and
      (4)   Gasoline filling stations.
   (K)   Outdoor storage as an accessory use to the principal use on the site
if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The use will not obstruct the free flow of vehicular circulation or
the vehicular circulation pattern established on the premises.
      (2)   Buffers designed in accordance with § 154.50 of the Township Code
are provided so as to prevent such storage areas from being seen by any off-
site property users. The minimum buffer width between such use and any
adjoining property, unless a larger buffer is required under
§152.143 E.2 below, shall be 25 feet.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.Ord. 11-2000, passed 4-24-00; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.143 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Warehousing, distributing and light industrial uses may continue to
the same extent as they existed on January 1, 2006, under the regulations under
which they received approval.
      (1)   Conditions of use.
         (a)   All facilities for the manufacturing of the product shall be
contained within a building.
         (b)   No vibration shall be permitted beyond the building line.
         (c)   No noise greater than 70 dBa's, measured at the lot line, shall
be permitted to be generated.
         (d)   No manufacturing process shall be permitted if it is noxious or
offensive by reason of odor, dust, fumes, gas, smoke or radiation or that
constitutes a public hazard by fire, explosion or other nuisance.
         (e)   No trucks or large vehicles may enter or exit or run idle on the
property between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. each day.
      (2)   Development requirements: All area and bulk requirements applicable
to permitted uses shall apply to light manufacturing conditional use.
   (B)   Retail and service uses provided that no more than 50% of the total
development may be used for retail and service uses.
   (C)   Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC) only where the same is
designated as an overlay in the EIB-Economic Industrial Business Zone. The
Continuing Care Retirement Community Conditional Use Overlay Zone is created in
recognition of the need for adult retirement housing and specialized living and
continuing care facilities and services for individuals over the age of 55.
      (1)   Conditions of use.
         (a)   Minimum lot size: five acres, with total tract size for a
Continuing Care Retirement Community development being a minimum of 90 acres.
However, the 90 acre minimum tract area and the 5 acre minimum lot size shall
not prevent the development from proceeding in sections or phases.
         (b)   Maximum impervious surface coverage: 45%.
         (c)   Minimum setbacks (front, side and rear): 200 feet from the
portion of any boundary line of a Continuing Care Retirement Community which is
immediately adjacent to a residential zone boundary line in existence on
December 30, 1998.
         (d)   Maximum height limitation: four stories but not to exceed 55
feet; provided, however, the maximum height may be increased to five stories
but not to exceed 62 feet for buildings containing only Skilled Care Nursing
Units and/or Assisted Living Units, and their respective accessory uses, if
such buildings are no less then 1,700 feet from the nearest residential zone
district in existence as of December 30, 1998 and are situated so as to have
little, if any, impact on any adjacent residential communities and the total
impervious coverage for the entire Continuing Care Retirement Community is 40%
or less.
         (e)   Maximum density: 20 independent Apartment Units, Assisted Living
Units, and Skilled Care Nursing Units per acre, calculated on a minimum of 90
acres, shall be permitted. The maximum density of Independent Apartment Units
is 15 units per acre. There shall be no requirement that the Assisted Living
Units and Skilled Care Nursing Units be actually constructed in any proportion
to the Independent Apartment Units provided that the Continuing Care Retirement
Community development applicant shall present a reasonable plan for
construction of all aspects of the development upon completion at the time of
initial application. "Density" shall be computed on an overall tract basis by
dividing the total number of units proposed by the total tract area of the
Continuing Care Retirement Community. The result is expressed as units per
acre.
         (f)   Prior to the issuance of a zoning permit for each phase of a
Continuing Care Retirement Community, the developer must submit proof to
Township Solicitor that at least all previously completed phases and the phase
for which the zoning permit is sought have been made subject to recorded deed
restrictions which are acceptable to the Township Solicitor and incorporate the
provisions of this §
152.153(E)(f) and specifically provide that no part of the property may be used
for residential purposes other than as a Continuing Care Retirement Community
whose residents must be persons age 55 or older, or, where the unit is to be
occupied by a husband and wife, either the husband or wife is over the age of
55, and that no part of the property may be used as a permanent or temporary
residence for any person under the age of 21 years of age, but this prohibition
shall not limit the use of guest accommodations for visitors of residents of a
Continuing Care Retirement Community. Any portion of a Continuing Care
Retirement Community, whether or not subject to deed restrictions in accordance
with this Subsection (vi), may only be developed either in accordance with such
deed restrictions or in accordance with the underlying EIB-Economic Industrial
Business Zone criteria.
      (2)   Development review requirements.
         (a)   Except as specifically provided in this §
152.143(D)(2) or in §
152.143(D)(1) above, as a condition of the CCRC conditional use, the bulk and
development standards applicable to other uses in the EIB-Economic Industrial
Business Zoning District shall be applicable to any development in the CCRC
Overlay Zone. No part of the total development may be used or developed as a
CRC overlay development.
         (b)   The minimum space between principal buildings in a Continuing
Care Retirement Community shall be as follows:
            1.   A minimum of 75 feet between any principal structure and any
other principal structure; provided, however, the minimum shall be 30 when such
structures are physically connected by a fully enclosed pedestrian walkway.
            2.   The reviewing board, after due consideration of plans,
testimony or other submission, may waive strict compliance with this subsection
to further the architectural relationship of building groups.
         (c)   The minimum number of parking spaces for an entire Continuing
Care Retirement Community shall be 0.9 spaces per Independent Apartment Unit
and Assisted Living Unit, which shall be inclusive of all parking for staff,
residents, visitors, Independent Apartment Units, Assisted Living Units,
Skilled Care Nursing Units, and Continuing Care Retirement Community Accessory
Uses. Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accessibility regulations shall be
referenced for all parking lot designs.
         (d)   The required number of loading spaces for buildings where dining
and recreation facilities are located and all buildings containing over 40,000
square feet of floor area, except for those buildings devoted principally to
residential use, shall be one per building.
         (e)   All buildings may be connected by covered/enclosed walkways.
         (f)   As part of an overall development plan approval for a Continuing
Care Retirement Community, interior lots may be created within a CCRC Overlay
District and in such event the side yard, front yard and rear yard requirements
generally applicable to the CCRC Overlay District shall not apply to any lot
boundary, or any portion of a lot boundary, that is located adjacent to other
lot(s) within the Continuing Care Retirement Community development. There shall
be no prohibition against more than one building constructed on any one lot.
         (g)   To facilitate development of Continuing Care Retirement
Communities in the CCRC Overlay District, the reviewing board shall apply the
site plan and subdivision standards applicable to the development in such a way
as to encourage and promote flexibility, economy and environmental soundness in
design and layout, and the reviewing board shall require sufficiently detailed
engineering information as is necessary at the time of any preliminary
approval. Any development may take place in conjunction with an overall phasing
plan approved by the reviewing board.
         (h)   As part of any preliminary site plan and/or subdivision approval
for a Continuing Care Retirement Community, the reviewing board may, in its
discretion, extend the vesting periods for such approval(s) for longer than
three years, in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-49(d). As part of final site
plan and/or subdivision approval granted for a Continuing Care Retirement
Community, the reviewing board may, in its discretion; extend the vesting
period for such approval(s) for longer than two years in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-52(b).
         (i)   Interior streets, parking areas, dwelling entrances, pedestrian
walks and any recreation area which is to be used for any nighttime activity
shall be provided with sufficient illumination. Only night security lighting
shall be used in areas where night time activity does not occur. Off-site glare
and light pollution shall be minimized using appropriate lighting designs and
techniques.
         (j)   The following signs shall be permitted within the CCRC Overlay
District in accordance with the following regulations:
            1.   One non-flashing and externally illuminated freestanding
identification sign displaying the name of the Continuing Care Retirement
Community, not to exceed 60 square feet in area, and located not less than 15
feet from the street which provides principal access.
            2.   Standard non-flashing directional signs.
            3.   Non-flashing building signs, not to exceed six square feet in
area. Such signs shall indicate only the name and/or address of any such
building.
            4.   Such other signs as the approving authority may in its
discretion deem appropriate, provided that in no event shall there be permitted
any such other sign which is of a flashing type or which is greater than 30
square feet in area or which is not compatible with the aesthetics of the
project.
         (k)   All trash, garbage disposal, and recycling facilities shall be
properly screened and landscaped, and plans shall be submitted as part of the
development's site plan, showing the location and types of screening and
landscaping thereof.
         (l)   All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
         (m)   No certificate of conformance may be issued by the Township
Zoning Officer for any CCRC building unless and until the developer has
submitted to the Township evidence of the financial stability of such
developer, which shall be in the form of a copy of the Certificate of Authority
for the CCRC, or the respective phase thereof, from the New Jersey Department
of Community Affairs, or similar approval from any State or federal agency with
jurisdiction for the approval and oversight of CCRC's in the State of New
Jersey.
         (n)   Notwithstanding anything else contained in this subchapter, a
Continuing Care Retirement Community must be completed and occupied in phases
in conformance with New Jersey Department of Community Affairs requirements
governing the payment of deposits and execution of contracts prior to
occupancy.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Within a Continuing Care Retirement Community, any
use reasonably necessary for, or incidental to, the operation of the facility
or for the benefit or convenience of the residents and their guests including,
but not limited to: kitchen and dining facilities, exercise and vocational
rooms, places of worship, indoor and outdoor recreational buildings and uses
including swimming pools, retail and banking facilities, beauty salons and
barber shops, gift shops, classrooms, security facilities, conference rooms,
common areas, guest rooms, administration, general, medical and other offices
associated with the CCRC, postal center, pharmacy, maintenance facilities,
hobby, craft and music rooms, library, computer and television rooms, and
heating and cooling equipment structures, off-street parking, garages and
loading areas as required for the use of occupants of the CCRC and are
permitted, provided that the Continuing Care Retirement Community Accessory Use
is for the use and benefit of the Continuing Care Retirement Community.
   (D)   New and used automobile sales and devices and leasing if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 10 acres.
      (2)   Lot must front on a country or state road or highway.
   (E)   New and used truck and trailer sales, service and leasing if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 10 acres.
      (2)   Lot must front on a county or state road or highway.
   (F)   A Comprehensive Retirement Community (CRC) Overlay applies only where
a Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC) is designated as an overlay in
the EIB-Economic Industrial Business Zoning District. The Comprehensive
Retirement Overlay Zone is created in recognition of the need for housing for
adults 55 years of age and older, but not needing the full complement of care
facilities normally associated with CCRC's. The Comprehensive Retirement
Community shall be provided in the form of single family detached or single
family attached units only, and shall be subject to the approval procedures for
General Development Plans ("GDP") set forth in
§ 156.024 below.
   Retail, restaurant, office and service uses may be provided, however, no
more than 10% of the total development area for the CRC use may be used for
such uses. Such nonresidential uses must have frontage on an existing Principal
Arterial, Minor Arterial Street, or Major Collector Street, as set forth in the
Master Plan. The following uses are specifically prohibited in the CRC Overlay
Zone: movie theaters, cinemas and arcades; fast-food and convenience stores;
gasoline filling stations.
      (1)   Conditions of Use.
         (a)   Minimum lot size. The total tract size for a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development shall be a minimum of 90 acres. However, the
90 acre minimum tract area shall not prevent the development from proceeding in
sections or phases.
         (b)   Maximum impervious surface coverage. The maximum impervious
surface coverage shall be 60% on a tract wide basis.
         (c)   Minimum setbacks (front, side and rear). The minimum setbacks
shall be 100 feet from the portion of any boundary line of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development which is immediately adjacent to a single
family detached home community, and 50 feet to any other boundary line. There
shall be a 75 foot tract setback along existing principal arterial, minor
arterial, or major collector streets.
         (d)   Maximum height limitation. The maximum height limitation shall
be 35 feet for Comprehensive Retirement Community units, either single family
detached or townhouse, and 35 feet for permitted nonresidential uses.
         (e)    Maximum density. A Comprehensive Retirement Community shall
have a maximum density of 4.5 units per acre calculated on a minimum of 90
acres. "Density" shall be computed on an overall tract basis by dividing the
total number of units proposed by the total tract area of the Comprehensive
Retirement Community development. The result is expressed as units per acre.
         (f)   Prior to the issuance of a zoning permit for each phase of a
Comprehensive Retirement Community, the developer must submit proof to the
Township Solicitor that at least all previously completed phases and the phase
for which the zoning permit is sought have been made subject to recorded deed
restrictions which are acceptable to the Township Solicitor and incorporate the
provisions of this § 152.143 (G)(1) and specifically provide that no part of
the property may be used for residential purposes other than as a Comprehensive
Retirement Community whose residents must be persons age 55 or older. Where the
unit is to be occupied by a husband and wife, either the husband or wife shall
be 55 years of age or older, and no part of the property may be used as a
permanent or temporary residence for any person under the age of 18 years of
age. The foregoing prohibition shall not limit the use of the property as guest
accommodations for visitors of residents of a Comprehensive Retirement
Community. Any portion of a Comprehensive Retirement Community, whether or not
subject to deed restrictions in accordance with this section, may only be
developed either in accordance with such deed restrictions, or in accordance
with the underlying EIB - Economic Industrial Business Zoning District
criteria.
         (g)   No part of the total CRC development may be used or developed as
a CCRC overlay development.
      (2)   Development review requirements.
         (a)   Except as specifically provided in this §
152.143(G)(1) or in §
152.143(G)(2), above, as a condition of the Comprehensive Retirement Community
conditional use approval, the bulk and development standards applicable to
other uses in the EIB - Economic Industrial Business Zone shall be applicable
to any development in the Comprehensive Retirement Community Overlay Zone.
         (b)   The minimum number of parking spaces for a Comprehensive
Retirement Community shall be 2 spaces per unit. Americans with Disabilities
Act accessibility regulations shall be referenced for all parking lot designs.
Parking for nonresidential uses shall be provided in accordance with §
150.16(A).
         (c)   The required number of loading spaces for buildings containing
over 40,000 square feet of floor area shall be one per building.
         (d)   To facilitate development of a Comprehensive Retirement
Community, the reviewing board shall apply the site plan and subdivision
standards applicable to the development in such a way as to encourage and
promote flexibility, economic and environmental soundness in design and layout,
and the reviewing board shall require sufficiently detailed engineering
information as is necessary at the time of any preliminary approval. Any
development may take place in conjunction with an overall phasing plan approved
by the reviewing board.
         (e)   As part of any preliminary site plan and/or subdivision approval
for a Comprehensive Retirement Community, the reviewing board may, in its
discretion, extend the vesting periods for such approval(s) for longer than
three years, in accordance with N.J.S.A 40:55D-49(d). As part of final site
plan and/or subdivision approval granted for a Comprehensive Retirement
Community, the reviewing board may, in its discretion, extend the vesting
period for such approval(s) for longer than two years in accordance with
N.J.S.A 40:55D-52(b).
         (f)   Interior streets, parking areas, dwelling entrances, pedestrian
walks and any recreation area which is to be used for any nighttime activity
shall be provided with sufficient illumination. Only night security lighting
shall be used in areas where night time activity does not occur. Off-site glare
and light pollution shall be minimized using appropriate lighting designs and
techniques.
         (g)   The following signs shall be permitted in a Comprehensive
Retirement Community in accordance with the following regulations:
            1.   One non-flashing and externally illuminated freestanding
identification sign displaying the name of the community, not to exceed 60
square feet in area, and located not less than 15 feet from the street which
provides principal access.
            2.   Standard non-flashing directional signs.
            3.   Non-flashing building signs, not to exceed six square feet in
area. Such signs shall indicate only the name and/or address of any such
building.
            4.   Such other signs as the approving authority may in its
discretion deem appropriate, provided that in no event shall there be permitted
any such other sign which is of a flashing type or which is greater than 30
square feet in area or which is not compatible with the aesthetics of the
project.
         (h)   All trash, garbage disposal, and recycling facilities shall be
properly screened and landscaped, and plans shall be submitted as part of the
development's site plan, showing the location and types of screening and
landscaping thereof.
         (i)   All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
         (j)   The following accessory uses shall be permitted: garages,
recreational buildings and facilities for the sole use of the Comprehensive
Retirement Community and guests, off-street parking, maintenance/equipment
buildings for common areas, gatehouses, invisible fences. Individual storage
sheds and swimming pools are not permitted accessory uses on any individual lot
in the Comprehensive Retirement Community Overlay Zone.
         (k)   Decks and patios shall be permitted only within the buildable
area.
   (G)   Adult uses.
      (1)   Purpose. These regulations are adopted in furtherance of all of the
public purposes of municipal zoning and planning, including, but not limited
to, guiding the appropriate use and development of the Township in a manner
which will promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare, and
in order to meet the needs of citizens of the Township, while maintaining the
quality and character of the Township and deterring the growth and spread of
blight and crime (especially prostitution, sexual offenses, public indecency,
and related offenses). It is recognized that there are some uses commonly known
as "adult" uses which, because of their very nature, are recognized as having
serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when those uses
are located near residential areas or in other inappropriate locations, or
without sufficient showing that those uses in a specified location will comply
with the conditions and standards for the location and operation of those uses.
Therefore, special regulation of these objectionable adult uses is deemed
necessary to ensure that adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting
or downgrading of the Township. In no way is the fact that the Township
regulates any or all of the adult uses described herein, or prohibits or allows
them in the various locations to be construed as approval of or condoning of
those uses.
      (2)   No lawful adult use shall be located within 1,000 feet of any
residential district, single-family or multifamily dwelling; within 1,000 feet
of any existing house of worship; within 1,000 feet of any religious,
charitable or nonprofit institution, public community center, park, playground,
recreation center, or similar use; within 1,000 feet of any premises licensed
for the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages; or within 1,000 feet of
any public or private school, nursery or childcare center. The foregoing
distance limitations shall be measured by a straight line drawn from the
nearest point of the lot boundary on which the proposed adult use is to be
located to the nearest point of the lot or district boundary, as the case may
be, of the other use of district, and those uses, district boundary lines and
dimensions shall be indicated on the submitted site plan. No permitted adult
use shall be located within 1,000 feet of any existing residential use or
residential zone in the township or in any contiguous municipality.
      (3)   Adult uses in buildings having a capacity of 50 or more persons are
excluded from all zones.
      (4)   Off-street shall be provided in accordance with
Chapter 154.
      (5)   Signs shall meet the requirements specified for the zones described
herein, and various zoning districts shall not be construed as approval of or
condoning of those uses.
      (6)   Signs shall meet the requirements specified for the EIB District
for commercial uses, additionally, no "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activity" shall be shown, described or depicted on any signs,
advertisements, displays or exhibits that are visible from outside the
building.
      (7)   The interior of the adult use building shall be designed so that no
interior contents of the building are visible at any time from the outside
through windows, door openings or in any other manner.
      (8)   The interior of any building in which an adult use is located shall
be adequately lighted and shall be constructed so that every portion thereof is
readily visible without obstruction to the clerk or other person in charge of
the building from the counter, booth, cash register or other place where the
person is normally stationed.
      (9)   All other applicable requirements of the EIB District and of the
zoning and development ordinances of the Township shall be met.
      (10)   Hours of operation shall not be earlier than 9:00 p.m. nor later
than midnight, prevailing time, on weekdays and no operation shall be permitted
on Saturdays and Sundays.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 11-2000, passed 4-24-00; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord. 25-01, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-
06; Am. Ord. 90-06, passed 7-24-06)
§ 152.144 DENSITY.
   No residential dwelling units are permitted in the EIB - Economic Industrial
Business Zoning District, except in connection with a CRC or CCRC overlay
development.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 10-9-01)
§ 152.145 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size:
      (1)   For all uses: two acres.
      (2)   For single family detached units in a Comprehensive Retirement
Community: 5,000 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum lot frontage:
      (1)   For all uses: 200 feet.
      (2)   For single family detached units in a Comprehensive Retirement
Community: 50 feet.
      (3)   For townhouses in a Comprehensive Retirement Community: 20 feet.
      (4)   For nonresidential uses developed as part of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development: 200 feet.
   (C)   Setback requirements:
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback:
         (a)   100 feet from any state right-of-way.
         (b)   50 feet from any other right-of-way.
         (c)   For a Comprehensive Retirement Community, 5 feet to any
residential unit porch, and 10 feet to the face of the building from the street
right-of-way line.
         (d)   For nonresidential uses developed as part of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development: 100 feet from principal arterial, minor
arterial, or major collector streets, and 50 feet from all other streets.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   For all uses:
            1.   200 feet from any residentially zoned property.
            2.   20 feet from any other property.
         (b)   For a Comprehensive Retirement Community, 5 feet to any lot line
where no alley is provided, and 25 feet to the center of an alley, when alleys
are provided for access. Garages must be at least 20 feet back from the front
of the house, if the garage is not served by an alley. If served by an alley,
it must be to the rear of the building.
         (c)   For nonresidential uses developed as part of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development: 50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   For all uses:
            1.   200 feet from any residentially zoned property.
            2.   20 feet from any other property.
         (b)   For a Comprehensive Retirement Community: 7.5 feet, or 15 feet
between single family homes. For townhouses, side yards shall be provided on
only one side of the end unit of 10 feet in width.
         (c)   For nonresidential uses developed as part of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development: 50 feet.
      (4)   Minimum distance between buildings:
         (a)   For a Comprehensive Retirement Community utilizing single family
attached housing, the front to front and front to rear distances between
principal buildings shall be at least 50 feet.
         (b)   For nonresidential uses developed as part of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development: 25 feet.
      (5)   Maximum number of units in structure: No more than six townhouse
dwelling units shall be contained in any one structure.
      (6)   Maximum height limitation: The maximum height for any residential
or nonresidential building developed under the Comprehensive Retirement
Community Overlay Zone shall be 35 feet.
   (D)   Minimum buffer width and location requirement: 200 feet within the
setback from any residentially zoned property, except when a Comprehensive
Retirement Community is planned, where the buffer shall be 100 feet from a
residentially zoned property. Wetlands and wetland transition areas may be
counted as part of the buffer requirement. For a Comprehensive Retirement
Community that includes a nonresidential component, and that nonresidential
component is, in whole or in part, intended to serve and has direct access to
and from the Comprehensive Retirement Community, the required buffer width
shall be at least 20 feet, provided that where such buffer width is proposed to
be less than 50 feet from a residential lot, there must be a written point of
sale disclosure of that fact provided to any prospective purchaser or purchaser
of such residential lots.
   (E)   Maximum height limitation: 50 feet
   (F)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%
   (G)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (H)   Minimum parking setbacks:
      (1)   For permitted uses set forth in §
152.142:
         (a)   200 feet from any residentially zoned property.
         (b)   50 feet from any right-of-way.
         (c)   25 feet from any other property line.
         (d)   25 feet from any other side property line except that 12.5. feet
may be provided where cross easements for parking are provided and maintained.
      (2)   For all other uses:
         (a)   200 feet from any residentially zoned property.
         (b)   50 feet from any right-of-way.
         (c)   50 feet from any other property line.
         (d)   25 feet from any other side property line except that 12.5 feet
may be provided where cross easements for parking are provided and maintained.
      (3)   For Comprehensive Retirement Community Uses:
         (a)   40 feet from any existing public street right-of-way.
      (4)   For nonresidential uses developed as part of a Comprehensive
Retirement Community development: 40 feet from any existing public street
right-of-way, and 20 feet from all other property lines, provided that where
such buffer width is proposed to be less than 50 feet from a residential lot,
there must be a written point of sale disclosure of that fact provided to any
prospective purchaser or purchaser of such residential lots.
   (I)   A minimum of 15% of the total tract shall be set aside as contiguous
open space. Of the total open space, no more than 50% of the open space may be
wetlands as designated by the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection. In the case of a Comprehensive Retirement Community, a minimum of
20% of the total tract area shall be set aside as open space.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 21-01, passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord. 85-06,
passed 4-24-06)
§ 152.146 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All development shall be subject to the following unless, after due
consideration of plans, testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board
waives strict compliance with the requirements of this section in order to
promote the purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   Architectural compatibility. Any development shall be constructed in
accordance with an overall architectural plan such that the facades, roof
lines, architectural detail and landscaping of each building shall be
compatible with all other existing or proposed buildings on the site.
   (B)   Grouping.  The principal and accessory buildings shall be arranged in
a group or groups such that no building shall be less than 30 feet from any
other building, except in the case of a Comprehensive Retirement Community,
where setbacks specified within this chapter, shall apply.
   (C)   Utilities. All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
   (D)   Mechanical screening. All mechanical equipment, whether placed on the
ground, roof or other location, shall be screened from ground level view with
an acceptable material compatible with the architectural scheme of the
development. This shall not apply to mechanical equipment associated with
single family detached and attached residential units.
   (E)   Trash enclosures. All trash and recycling containers shall be enclosed
in accordance with the Township design standards for trash enclosures. Trash
and recycling pick-up may only occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any State or Federal regulations.
   (F)   Shared parking. Shared parking may be permitted as determined by the
reviewing board.
   (G)   Outdoor storage. No products, materials or goods shall be stored or
displayed outside of the confines of the building or structure on the premises.
   (H)   Conditions. The reviewing board may impose more restrictive conditions
or any further reasonable conditions to the effect of noise, traffic movement
and volume, lighting and/or intensity of such conditional activities on
adjacent land uses and may require a sufficient guaranty to ensure compliance
with such restrictions or conditions.
   (I)   The following regulations apply to only Comprehensive Retirement
Community Zone developments, unless, after due consideration of plans,
testimony and other submissions, the reviewing board waives strict compliance
with these requirements in order to further the architectural relationship of
building groups:
      (l)   Social and recreational facilities for adults 55 years of age and
older shall reflect, insofar as possible, preferences of the anticipated
residents, and indoor facilities for such uses may include hobby or craft
facilities, lounging areas which may also be used for meetings, and group
activities, card rooms, exercise rooms, and lavatories. Outdoor facilities for
senior housing may include walks, shuffleboard and horseshoe courts, tennis
courts and a swimming pool.
      (2)   Appropriate passive outdoor recreational areas shall be provided
and shall include suitable landscaping. These areas shall be suitable for
sitting and walking and may include shuffleboard courts, game tables and or
bicycle trails. Passive outdoor recreational areas shall be at least 25% of the
required open space.
      (3)   Comprehensive Retirement Communities shall be exempt from the
provisions which restrict walkways, paths and park benches in the setback
areas, but such improvements are not permitted in the buffer areas. Bikeways
along the existing roadways adjacent to the development shall be provided under
the then current ordinance standards in effect at the time of application for
general development plan approval, preliminary site plan or preliminary
subdivision application.
      (4)   All public street frontages and project entrance drives shall be
planted with approved street trees spaced a maximum of 50 feet apart.
      (5)    The development shall have an overall coordinated design scheme
with interval circulation and appropriate access easements providing ready
access to all of the proposed uses. Access to the nonresidential portion of the
development may be separate from the access to the permanent residential
portion of the development. Site elements such as signage and lighting
standards shall be complementary to the building design. Outdoor areas may
include sidewalk treatment, trash receptacles, recycling receptacles, benches,
planters and the like.
      (6)   Interior street, parking areas, dwelling entrances, pedestrian
walks and any recreation area which is to be used for any nighttime activity
shall be provided with sufficient illumination so as to minimize hazards to
persons using the same and shall, where necessary, be shielded to avoid glare
that might be disturbing to occupants of building or properties within and
without the Comprehensive Retirement Community Overlay Zone.
      (7)   With respect to any common open space created as part of the
Comprehensive Retirement Community, the landowner or developer shall provide
and establish an organization for the ownership and maintenance of any such
common open space for the use and benefit of the residents of the Comprehensive
Retirement Community.
      (8)   The common open space within each section shall be dedicated free
and clear of debt to such organization within one year after the issuance of
95% of the certificates of occupancy of that section or immediately upon
issuance of the last certificate of occupancy of that section. In the event
that the applicant fails to comply with this provision, no further building
permits and/or certificates of occupancy for said project in the Comprehensive
Retirement Community shall be issued. This provision shall not be construed to
prevent the applicant from starting other sections prior to the completion of
95% of current sections.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 21-01,
passed 10-9-01)
CP - COMMUNITY PROPERTY
§ 152.151 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the CP - Community Property Zone is to provide for
public lands, buildings and facilities throughout the Township.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.152 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Government and public buildings, including, but not limited to,
administrative offices, police facilities, public works, fire stations,
ambulance and rescue stations, public libraries, public transit facilities and,
as accessory uses, garage and repair facilities, for the operation of vehicles
used in conjunction with such principal uses.
   (B)   Public schools, including, as accessory uses, parks, playgrounds and
accessory building necessary for the operation thereof.
   (C)   Public parks, playgrounds, active and passive recreation and accessory
buildings necessary for the operation thereof.
   (D)   Conservation areas, passive open space areas and "Green Acres" lands.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.153 AREA AND BULK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot frontage: 200 feet.
   (B)   Setback requirements:
      (1)   Minimum front yard setback: 50 feet.
      (2)   Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard setback: 30 feet.
   (C)   Maximum height limitation: 50 feet.
   (D)   Maximum impervious coverage: 60%.
   (E)   Maximum clearing limit: No more than 70% of the lot area shall be
cleared of vegetation for the purpose of construction; provided, however, if
the existing cleared area exceeds 70% of the lot area or the existing
vegetation is immature and may be re-established in a relatively short period
of time, strict compliance with this section may be waived by the reviewing
board to promote the purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   Minimum parking setback requirements:
      (1)   25 feet from any residentially zoned property.
      (2)   35 feet from any county or state right-of-way.
      (3)   20 feet from any other right-of-way.
      (4)   20 feet from the rear property line.
      (5)   10 feet from the side property lines except that zero feet shall be
permitted where cross easements for parking are provided and maintained.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 152.154 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Abandonment of Municipal Facility: If any Community Property which
contains a Municipal Facility is abandoned, sold or otherwise ceases to be
owned by a governmental or quasi-governmental entity, such property from and
after the official date of abandonment or the date of sale or transfer will
become part of the zoning district which is immediately adjacent to it;
provided, however, if a designated Community Property lies between or adjacent
to two or more different zoning districts, the Community Property will become
part of the least intense use zone. By way of example and not limitation, if a
designated Community Property lies between the B-Business Zone and the MDR-
Medium Density Residential Zone, the Community Property will become part of the
MDR Zone.
   (B)   All development of Municipal Facilities, whether by the township, the
local school board, any
regional school board, the county or any other municipal, or county board,
agency, authority or district shall be in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-29
through 40:55D-31.
   (C)   Community Property which is used as conservation areas, open space
areas or Green Acres lands cannot be used for any use except as conservation
areas, open space areas or Green Acres lands.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
AH - AFFORDABLE HOUSING DISTRICT
§ 152.161 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the AH District is to provide for the development
of a 100% affordable project not to exceed 81 multi-family units.
(Ord. 350-19, passed 7-23-19)
§ 152.162 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Principal uses: Multi-family dwellings, townhouses, stacked
townhouses.
   (B)   Accessory uses:
      (1)   Recreational facilities including club house, outdoor recreation,
tot lot, playground.
      (2)   Off-street parking facilities.
      (3)   Utility structures.
(Ord. 350-19, passed 7-23-19)
§ 152.163 CONDITIONAL USES.
   None.
(Ord. 350-19, passed 7-23-19)
§ 152.164 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Ownership and control. The tract shall be under one ownership or
control by the applicant for purposes of obtaining all required development
approvals and committing the tract to the regulations of the AH District.
   (B)   Maximum tract density: 10.125 dwelling units per gross acre (prior to
any required dedication of lands) but not to exceed a total of 81 residential
units.
   (C)   Minimum tract area: 8 acres (prior to any required dedication of
lands).
   (D)   Minimum tract frontage: 500 linear feet.
   (E)   Setback requirements:
      (1)   Front yard setback (Haddonfield Berlin Road) = 40 feet.
      (2)   Side yard setback = 35 feet
      (3)   Rear yard setback = 40 feet
   (F)   Minimum buffer of 20 feet within the setback area shall be maintained
along the side and rear yard of the property,
   (G)   Minimum distance between buildings:
      (1)   From side face to side face: 20 feet
      (2)   From rear face to rear face: 40 feet
   (H)   Maximum number of units per building: Maximum of 10 units per
building.
   (I)   Maximum height: two and half stories but not to exceed 35 feet.
   (J)   Maximum impervious coverage: 70% of the entire tract area.
   (K)   Minimum open space requirement: A minimum of 20% of gross tract shall
be open space. This may include, but not be limited to, passive recreation
areas, active recreation areas, natural or planted buffer and any other similar
pervious areas. Open space on the tract may be maintained by the owner, a
tenant association, or condominium association.
   (L)   Minimum parking requirements: Parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements of the New Jersey Residential Site Improvement
Standards (RSIS). Garden apartment ratios shall be utilized in determining the
minimum required number of off-street parking spaces. Off- street parking
spaces may be provided in surface parking lots or as garages.
   (M)   Relationships to other sections of this chapter. Where the regulations
of the AH Zone conflict with any other regulations of this chapter, the
regulations contained in this section for the AH Zone shall apply.
(Ord. 350-19, passed 7-23-19)
§ 152.165 ZONE SPECIFIC DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lighting. No light fixture, whether pole or wall mounted, shall be
greater than 18 feet in height.
   (B)   Landscaping. All public street frontages and project entrance drives
shall be planted with approved street trees spaced a maximum of 50 feet apart.
   (C)   Building façades. The façade of the structures shall be varied in such
a manner that no more than two townhouses and no more than four garden
apartments shall share the same façade at the building line. Façades shall be
uniform architecturally and shall not consist of disparate materials.
Individual dwellings shall be distinguished from each other only by
landscaping, lighting and variation in the building line.
   (D)   Signage. A sign identifying a multi-family residential development
shall not exceed 32 square feet and shall be limited to one sign per street
frontage.
   (E)   Laundry facilities. Adequate laundering and drying facilities for
clothing shall be provided within each structure sufficient to serve its
occupants, unless such facilities are individually provided for each dwelling
unit.
   (F)   Storage. Each unit should have a minimum of 25 to 50 square feet of
storage space included within each unit’s floor plan.
   (G)   Pedestrian circulation. A pedestrian circulation system shall be
provided which connects parking areas, dwellings and recreational facilities in
a coherent and comprehensive pattern. The pedestrian walkway shall be
adequately illuminated at night and be surfaced with a durable, dustless, all-
weather material a minimum width of five feet.
   (H)   Trash enclosures. Trash enclosures shall be provided such that no
disposal area is greater than 350 feet from the entrance of any dwelling unit
unless individual trash storage areas are provided for each dwelling unit.
Trash and recycling pick-up may only occur on weekdays between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. unless otherwise regulated by any state or federal
regulations. Trash enclosures shall be visually screened with evergreen
plantings or solid fence enclosure.
   (I)   Utilities. All utilities servicing the development shall be located
underground.
(Ord. 350-19, passed 7-23-19)
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS AS  CONDITIONALLY
PERMITTED USE IN OVERLAY ZONE
§ 152.171 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the Cannabis Conditionally Permitted Use in
Overlay Zone is to provide appropriate types of facilities in appropriate
locations within the Township while promoting economic growth that will
preserve and maintain health, safety and welfare of the Township and its
residents.
(Ord. 386-21, passed 8-9-21)
§ 152.172 CONDITIONAL USE.
   Cannabis establishment licenses 3, 4 and 5 shall be conditional permitted
uses within a Cannabis Use Overlay Zone within various zoning districts of the
municipality identified on the map attached to Ord. 394-21, entitled
“Conditional Use Overlay Zones - Voorhees, N.J.”
(Ord. 386-21, passed 8-9-21; Am. Ord. 394-21, passed 12-29-21)
§ 152.173 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION FOR CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All cannabis establishments Class 1 through 6 located within the
Township shall meet all requirements for licensure and hold the appropriate
license issued by the Cannabis Regulatory Commission, Department of Treasury,
State of New Jersey.
   (B)   No cannabis establishment shall permit on-site consumption of cannabis
or cannabis related products including no on site sales and consumption of
alcohol or tobacco products.
   (C)   No outside storage of any cannabis, cannabis products or cannabis
related materials shall be permitted.
   (D)   Hours of operation of any cannabis retail facility shall be limited
from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven days a week.
   (E)   For each cannabis establishment located within the Township, a
security plan to be approved by Voorhees Police Department shall be provided to
demonstrate how the facility will maintain effective security and control of
the operations. The plan should include the following but not limited to:
      (1)   Type of security systems to be installed;
      (2)   Installation, operation and maintenance of security cameras
covering all interior and exterior parking lots, loading areas and other such
areas of the establishments;
      (3)   Tracking and record keeping of products and materials;
      (4)   Type of lighting provided in and around the establishments; and
      (5)   Location of on site security team and armed guard on premises.
   (F)   The Township of Voorhees shall permit a maximum of ten licenses for
cannabis establishments of any classification from Class 1 through 6. No more
than five retail cannabis establishments, Class 5, shall be permitted within
the Township.
(Ord. 386-21, passed 8-9-21)
§ 152.174 CONDITIONS OF PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All cannabis establishments, particularly Class 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5,
shall provide detailed information on odor control from these sites. This shall
include air treatment systems with sufficient odor absorbing ventilation and
exhaust systems such that any odors generated inside the facility are not
detectable by a person of reasonable sensitivity anywhere on adjacent property,
within public rights-of-way, or within any other unit located in the same
building if the use occupies a portion of a building.
   (B)   All cannabis establishments shall provide for noise mitigation
features designed to minimize disturbance from machinery, processing and/or
packaging operations, loading and other noise generating equipment or
machinery. All licensed facilities must operate within applicable state decibel
requirements.
   (C)   Loitering, disruption to and/or obstruction of the free passage of
persons or vehicles in the immediate vicinity of the property shall be
considered unlawful.
(Ord. 386-21, passed 8-9-21)
§ 152.175 CONDITIONS OF SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All cannabis establishment operations, including cultivation,
manufacturing, wholesale packaging and retail, shall be conducted within a
building. No operations shall be conducted outside.
   (B)   Class 1, Class 2, Class 3 and Class 4 shall have a minimum lot area of
five acres.
   (C)   No cannabis establishments shall be located within 500 feet of a house
of worship or the boundaries of the Medium Density Residential (MDR), Rural
Residential (RR), R-10 Residential, Senior Housing (SH), and Cluster
Residential (CR) Zoning Districts.
   (D)   Parking. The following parking schedule shall be used to calculate the
required number of off-street parking spaces per use. Where the calculation
results in a fraction of a space, the required number of parking spaces shall
be rounded to the nearest whole number.
      (1)   Cannabis cultivator - one per every 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area or one per two employees at maximum shift.
      (2)   Cannabis delivery service - one per every 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area, plus one parking space for every delivery driver or fleet
vehicle.
      (3)   Cannabis distributor - one per every 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area.
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer - one per every 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area or one per two employees at maximum shift.
      (5)   Cannabis retailer - one per every 300 square feet of gross floor
area.
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler - one per every 1,000 square feet of gross
floor area.
   (E)   Signage. Signage shall comply with section §
150.15.
   (F)   No cannabis establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of a day-
care facility, school or playground that is within a publicly owned park. For
purposes of this division, a PUBLIC PLAYGROUND shall mean only that improved
area within a public park and not the public park itself designed, equipped and
set aside by the Township for play of six or more children under the age of 18;
which is not intended for use as an athletic playing field or athletic court;
and shall include any play equipment such as swings, slides, and sand boxes
whether or not fenced in or surrounded by other physical barriers. For purposes
of this division, a SCHOOL shall mean an educational facility in which 50% or
more of the building is utilized strictly for classroom instruction for
students ages 18 and under.
   (G)   The buffer standards in divisions (C) and (F) above shall not apply to
lots on the opposite side of a four-lane divided highway from the cannabis
establishment.
   (H)   For the Town Center (TC) Zoning District, the buffer standards of
divisions (C) and (F) herein shall be applied from the perimeter of the
cannabis establishment; for interpretative purposes the cannabis establishment
shall be defined as the dispensary building and its related site improvements,
including parking lot area, and entrance driveway. The applicant shall submit a
written certification from a New Jersey licensed civil engineer that the
property in the TC Zone is compliant to the buffer requirements of divisions
(C) and (F) herein.
(Ord. 386-21, passed 8-9-21; Am. Ord. 394-21, passed 12-29-21; Am. Ord. 397-22,
passed 3-14-22)
§ 152.176 ENFORCEMENT.
   The administration, approval process, permitting and enforcement of this
subchapter shall be the same as all other land use and development matters as
set forth in the Voorhees Township Code including, but not limited to
Chapter 156 of the Voorhees Township Code entitled "Establishment,
Administration and Enforcement of Planning and Zoning.”
(Ord. 394-21, passed 12-29-21; Am. Ord. 397-22, passed 3-14-22)
CHAPTER 153: AFFORDABLE HOUSING
Section
   
153.001   Intent
   
153.002   Affordable Housing Administrator
   
153.003   Delegation of duties of Housing Administrator
   
153.004   Submission of Affordable Housing Plan
   
153.005   Percentage of mandatory set asides
   
153.006   Low- and moderate- income housing
   
153.007   Bedroom distribution
   
153.008   Housing unit location
   
153.009   Phasing
   
153.010   Occupancy selection
   
153.011   Income eligibility standards
   
153.012   Initial sale and rental prices
   
153.013   Procedure for resale transactions
   
153.014   Calculation of resale price
   
153.015   Exempt sales
   
153.016   Rental increases
   
153.017   Rental of low- and moderate-income sales unit
   
153.018   Exemption from rent control ordinances
   
153.019   Duration of controls
   
153.020   Expiration of controls; option to purchase
   
153.021   Foreclosures
   
153.022   Foreclosure exemption for resale controls
   
153.023   Approval required for second mortgage
   
153.024   Sale of personal items
   
153.025   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.026   Affirmative marketing
   
153.027   Waiver
   
153.028   Affordable housing impact fees
§ 153.001 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to regulate the development and
management of low- and moderate-income housing units constructed in compliance
with the Housing Element of the Township Master Plan, adopted by the Planning
Board on March 18, 1987, and this Affordable Housing subchapter, both of which
were granted substantive certification by the New Jersey Council on Affordable
Housing (COAH) on May 10, 1994.
   (B)   This subchapter includes requirements set forth in N.J.A.C. 5:93 et
seq., the substantive rules of COAH, which are applicable to the construction
of new low- and moderate-income housing units. In cases where this subchapter
is silent, the applicable COAH substantive rules shall apply in their entirety.
('74 Code, § 131-72) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.002 AFFORDABLE HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Township Committee shall appoint an Affordable Housing Administrator
(Housing Administrator) to perform the following duties and functions:
   (A)   Implement the affirmative marketing program set forth in §
153.026 of this chapter.
   (B)   Set sales unit prices and/or rental unit rents in accordance with this
subchapter and the COAH rules.
   (C)   Screen potential home buyers/tenants for income eligibility.
   (D)   Maintain lists of eligible households for affordable units.
   (E)   Match eligible home purchasers and renters to units appropriate to
their need as specified in this subchapter.
   (F)   Administer all resale and rerental transactions pursuant to §§
153.013 through
153.022 of this chapter.
   (G)   Provide or obtain housing counseling services as necessary for
occupants of affordable housing units.
   (H)   Complete and submit COAH monitoring forms by August 30 of each year.
   (I)   Hold hearings, upon notice, to adjudicate disputes or complaints
involving purchasers, renters and the developer/sponsor.
   (J)   Assist the developer as necessary to implement those activities
delegated to the developer pursuant to §
153.003 of this chapter.
   (K)   Undertake other activities requested by the Township Committee which
are designed to facilitate the construction and occupancy of the affordable
units, in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and COAH rules.
('74 Code, § 131-75) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 812-97, passed 7-14-97; Am.
Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.003 DELEGATION OF DUTIES OF HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and functions of the Housing Administrator described in §
153.002(A) through (I) and (K) may be delegated to the developer of the
affordable units, provided, however, that the final responsibility for
compliance with this subchapter remains with the township.
(Ord. 812-97, passed 7-14-97; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 43-04,
passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.004 SUBMISSION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING PLAN.
   The developer of low- and moderate-income housing units shall submit to the
agency a description of the mechanism to be used to ensure that the required
low- and moderate-income units are sold or rented only to low- and moderate-
income households for a period of not less than 20 years.
('74 Code, § 131-76) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.005 PERCENTAGE OF MANDATORY SET ASIDES.
   (A)   All inclusionary development on sites identified in the Township
Housing Plan or any multifamily dwelling unit development with a finally
approved density equal to six units per gross acre or more, shall have a
mandatory 20% set aside for the provision of affordable housing.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the developer of the inclusionary or
multifamily dwelling unit development does not desire to set aside all of the
required units for sale or lease to low and moderate income households, or
desires to set aside less than the required number of units, the developer may
satisfy its fair share requirement by paying to the Township Fair Share Trust
Fund a development fee equal to $25,000 times the exact number of required low
and moderate income units that the developer does not intend to develop and
sell or rent. Fifty percent of the total development fee due must be paid prior
to issuance of the first building permit for the development and the balance
must be paid prior to issuance of the first certificate of occupancy with
respect to the development. The collection, administration, and use of the
development fees collected will be governed by
Chapter 36.
('74 Code, § 131-77) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 873-98, passed 5-11-98; Am.
Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.006 LOW- AND MODERATE- INCOME HOUSING.
   The affordable housing units provided through inclusionary development shall
be divided equally between low- and moderate-income households. At least 50% of
all units in each bedroom distribution and 50% of all rental units shall be
available for low-income households.
('74 Code, § 131-78) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.007 BEDROOM DISTRIBUTION.
   Affordable housing units shall have the following distribution of bedroom
types:
   (A)   At a minimum, 30% of all low- and moderate-income units shall be two-
bedroom units.
   (B)   At a minimum, 20% of all low- and moderate-income units shall be
three-bedroom units.
   (C)   The combination of efficiency and one-bedroom units is at least 10%
and no greater than 20% of the total low- and moderate-income units
('74 Code, § 131-79) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.008 HOUSING UNIT LOCATION.
   Affordable housing units shall be situated on the development tract in
locations no less desirable than market priced dwelling units within the
development or as approved by COAH and shall be equally accessible to common
open space, community facilities and shopping facilities.
('74 Code, § 131-80) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.009 PHASING.
   Final site plan approval shall be contingent upon the development, whether
developed in one stage or in two or more stages, meeting the following phasing
schedule:
Low- and Moderate-Income
Units Completed             Market Housing
(minimum %)         Units Completed (%)
      0                   25
      10                   25 + 1 unit
      50                   50
      75                   75
      100                   90
                         100
('74 Code, § 131-81) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.010 OCCUPANCY SELECTION.
   (A)   Initial sales and/or initial rentals of affordable housing units shall
be administered by the developer under the supervision of the Board. In the
event that the developer is unable or unwilling to undertake this function,
this responsibility may be assumed by the Board and Housing Administrator or
contracted with another entity. The developer shall pay a reasonable fee to
defray the expenses of such administration.
   (B)   Resales of owner units shall be administered by the Board. Re-rental
of rental units shall be the responsibility of the owner of the rental units
under the supervision of the Board.
   (C)   The developer, with the consent of the Board, shall designate an
application period during which applications to purchase or rent affordable
housing units will be accepted.
   (D)   Applications shall be accepted only if submitted on an application
form prepared and/or approved by the Housing Administrator. Applications shall
be completely filled out and notarized. Knowingly or intentionally making any
false statement on a form shall be grounds for disqualifying an applicant even
if the applicant is otherwise eligible. The following information shall be
required for a prospective purchaser or renter:
      (1)   Four consecutive pay stubs dated within 120 days of the interview
date or one recent pay stub and a letter from each and every current employer
stating present income in an annualized figure plus expected income from tips,
overtime or other extra earnings.
      (2)   A letter or appropriate reporting form verifying, without
limitation, social security, unemployment, disability, pension or other
benefits, including those received by an adult caretaker for the benefit of a
minor child.
      (3)   A letter or appropriate reporting form verifying any other sources
of income claimed by the applicant or household member.
      (4)   A copy of IRS form 1040, 1040A or 1040EZ, as applicable, and state
income tax returns for each of the three years prior to the date of the
interview.
      (5)   Reports that verify income from bank accounts, securities, trust
funds or other income-producing properties.
      (6)   Reports that verify assets that do not earn regular income such as
non- income-producing real estate and savings with delayed earnings provisions.
      (7)   Birth certificates or social security cards for children or for any
household member not listed on IRS forms.
   (E)   The Board or developer shall determine whether the applicant meets the
income and other requirements established in these regulations. The review
process for a prospective purchaser shall involve a credit background report;
to be an eligible applicant, the applicant shall have an acceptable credit
history such that there is realistic possibility that he/she will be approved
for a mortgage.
   (F)   The Board or developer will determine which eligible applicants shall
be offered the opportunity to purchase or rent affordable housing units.
Selection from among the eligible applicants shall be on a random basis subject
only to the priority schedule established in division (G) and the provisions
established thereunder.
   (G)   Residency and size of household priorities.
      (1)   A household of the size provided for in this division shall have
priority over households with a lesser number of persons for one-bedroom, two-
bedroom and three-bedroom units.
                     Household Size
      Unit Type             (persons)
      3-bedroom             4 or more *
      2-bedroom                3
      1-bedroom                2
* NOTE: A household of more than 4 shall be treated the same as a household of
4.
      (2)   All applicants shall be classified in one of the priority
categories set forth above on the basis of the information provided in the
initial application.
   (H)   Appeals. In the event that an applicant is determined to be ineligible
for a low- or moderate-income unit by the Housing Administrator, the applicant
may submit additional proofs and request reconsideration by the agency. Such
request for reconsideration shall be made within ten days of receipt of notice
of denial by the applicant.
   (I)   Waiting list. A waiting list must be established for the remaining
eligible applicants. After all the units are occupied, the developer or the
Board may choose to accept new applications. If an applicant is deemed
eligible, the applicant shall be placed on the waiting list at the bottom of
the particular priority classification for which the applicant qualifies. The
developer or the Board shall periodically recertify the applicants on the
waiting list to ensure that the list remains current and that the applicants
are still qualified for the units to which they applied.
('74 Code, § 131-82) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.011 INCOME ELIGIBILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The agency shall establish income eligibility ceilings for low- and
moderate- income units for various sized households based upon United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development “uncapped median income by family
size” for Camden County and as adopted by COAH. No applicant with a household
income in excess of these ceilings shall be eligible to rent the low- and
moderate- income units.
   (B)   Upon annual adoption of updated income standards by COAH, the Housing
Administrator shall modify its income eligibility ceilings accordingly.
   (C)   For purposes of determining income and eligibility, the Housing
Administrator shall consider:
      (1)   All sources of income, whether taxable or nontaxable, including
social security and pensions.
      (2)   Imputed income. For the purpose of determining eligibility and
rents, interest on the present value of real property and extraordinary
personal property owned by the applicant shall be imputed and deemed additional
income. Interest shall be imputed at the average interest rate on money market
accounts in the region as determined by the Housing Administrator.
      (3)   The income and assets of all members of the household as well as
the income and assets of any individual who is expected to occupy the unit for
which the household is seeking to qualify shall be included in the
determination of eligibility and of rents. The form used for verification of
household income shall include an affidavit attesting that the application
contains the complete income of all current or anticipated household members.
('74 Code, § 131-83) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.012 INITIAL SALE AND RENTAL PRICES.
   (A)   The following criteria shall be considered in determining rents and
sale prices:
      (1)   Efficiency units shall be affordable to one-person households.
      (2)   One-bedroom units shall be affordable to 1.5-person households.
      (3)   Two-bedroom units shall be affordable to three- person households.
      (4)   Three-bedroom units shall be affordable to 4.5-person households.
      (5)   Four-bedroom units shall be affordable to seven- person households.
   (B)   Median income by household size shall be established by a regional
weighted average of the uncapped Section 8 income limits published by HUD. To
compute this regional income limit, the HUD determination of median county
income for a family of four is multiplied by the estimated households within
the county. The resulting product for each county within the housing region is
summed. The sum is divided by the estimated total households in each housing
region. This quotient represents the regional weighted average of median income
for a household of four. This regional weighted average is adjusted by
household size based on multipliers used by HUD to adjust median income by
household size. The maximum average rent and price of low- and moderate- income
units within each inclusionary development shall be affordable to households
earning 57.5% of median income. The municipal ordinance shall require moderate-
income sales units to be available for at least three different prices and low-
income sales units to be available for at least two different prices.
   (C)   For municipalities that meet the criteria in division (B), in
averaging 57.5% thereunder, developers and/or municipal sponsors of rental
units may establish one rent for a low-income unit and one rent for a moderate-
income unit for each bedroom distribution
   (D)   The maximum rents of low- and moderate-income units within each
inclusionary development shall be affordable to households earning no more than
60% of median income. In averaging an affordability range of 52% for rental
units. developers and/or municipal sponsors of rental units may establish one
rent for a low- income unit and one rent for a moderate-income unit for each
bedroom distribution.
   (E)   The maximum sales prices of low- and moderate- income units within
each inclusionary development shall be affordable to households earning no more
than 70% of median income. In averaging an affordability range of 55% for sales
units, the municipal ordinance shall require moderate- income sales units to be
available for at least two different prices and low-income sales units to be
available for at least two different prices.    
   (F)   Owner-occupied and rental units shall require that low- and moderate-
income units utilize the same heating source as market units within the
inclusionary development.
   (G)   The initial price of a low- and moderate- income owner- occupied
single family housing unit shall be established so that after a down payment of
5%, the monthly principal, interest, homeowner and private mortgage insurances,
property taxes (property taxes shall be based on the restricted value of low-
and moderate-income units) and condominium or homeowner fees do not exceed 28%
of the eligible gross monthly income. Master deeds of inclusionary developments
regulate condominium or homeowner association fees or special assessments of
low- and moderate-income purchasers at a specific percentage of those paid by
market purchasers. The percentage that shall be paid by low- and moderate-
income purchasers shall be at least one- third of the condominium or homeowner
association fees paid by market purchasers. Once established within the master
deed, the percentage shall not be amended without prior approval from the
Council on Affordable Housing.
   (H)   Gross rents, including an allowance for utilities shall be established
so as not to exceed 30% of the gross monthly income of the appropriate
household size referenced in division (A). Those tenant-paid utilities that are
included in the utility allowance shall be so stated in the lease. The
allowance for utilities shall be consistent with the utility allowance approved
by HUD for use in New Jersey.
   (I)   Low-income housing units shall be reserved for households with a gross
household income less than or equal to 50% of the median income approved by the
Council. Moderate-income housing units shall be reserved for households with a
gross household income less than 80% of the median income approved the Council.
For example, a household earning 48% of median income may be placed in any low-
income unit; however, a household earning 53% may not qualify for a low-income
unit. A household earning 67% of median income may be placed in any moderate-
income housing unit. A household earning less than 50% of median income may be
placed in a moderate-income housing unit. Low- and moderate- income units shall
not be offered to households that are not income eligible without COAH approval
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:93-9.16.
('74 Code, § 131-84) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.013 PROCEDURE FOR RESALE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   All resale transactions of affordable housing units shall be
administered by the Board. From the date on which the Board receives a notice
of intent to sell by the owner of a low- or moderate-income unit, the Board
shall have the exclusive right to purchase the unit or to refer prospective
purchasers to that unit for a period of 90 days unless waived in writing by the
Board. In the event that a contract for the unit is executed within the 90-day
period set above and the prospective buyer is unable to close, the period
during which the Board shall have the exclusive right to market the unit is
automatically extended for a period of 21 days from the date it is notified of
the buyer's inability to close.
   (B)   In the event that no contract has been entered into for the unit at
the end of a 90-day period, the owner of the unit may seek approval from the
Board to sell the unit directly. If the Board determines at that point not to
purchase the unit, it shall authorize the applicant to sell the unit as set
forth below. However, if the Board, upon investigation of the circumstances,
determines that the failure to enter into a contract was the result of
negligence, absence of good faith effort or lack of cooperation on the part of
the seller, the Board shall require the applicant to attempt to sell the unit
for an additional 90-day period.
   (C)   In the case of a low- income unit, to a low- or moderate- income
buyer, or in the case of a moderate-income unit to a buyer whose income does
not exceed 120% of median, any subsequent sale shall be fully subject to the
resale restrictions contained in these regulations. The deed to the above
income purchaser shall specifically contain a deed restriction establishing
that it is subject to all the affordability controls outlined in this
subchapter.
('74 Code, § 131-85) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.014 CALCULATION OF RESALE PRICE.
   The resale price of the affordable housing unit shall be the base price
increased pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) herein.
   (A)   Percentage increase in household income. The price approved by the
Board at which the seller acquired the property shall be the base price. The
base price shall be multiplied by 100% plus the percentage increase in the HUD
uncapped median income by family size for the county from the time of
acquisition of the property to the date that notice of intent to sell is given
to the Board. For example, if the base price is $30,000 and the median income
at the time of the initial acquisition is $32,000 and at the time of the resale
transaction the median income has increased 25% to $40,000 then the resale
price is as follows:
      100 + 25 = 1.25
      100 100
    $30,000 x 1.25 = $37,500
   (B)   Improvements.
      (1)   In addition, the seller shall be entitled to add to the selling
price of the unit the cost of an eligible capital improvement to the affordable
housing which, pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:93-9.11, renders the unit suitable for a
larger household.
      (2)   Upon request of an owner of an affordable housing unit, the Board
shall consider within 30 days whether to grant prior approval of an improvement
and to approve a specific dollar amount up to the amount actually expended for
that improvement.
('74 Code, § 131-86) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.015 EXEMPT SALES.
   (A)   The following transactions shall be deemed non- sales for the purpose
of this plan. The owner of the affordable unit shall be entitled to a statement
of exemption from the agency upon application.
      (1)   Transfer of ownership of an affordable housing unit between husband
and wife.
      (2)   Transfer of ownership of an affordable housing unit between former
spouses as a result of a judicial decree, judgment or order of divorce, but not
including sales to third parties.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership of an affordable housing unit as a result of
inheritance.
      (4)   Transfer of ownership of an affordable housing unit through an
order of the Superior Court.
   (B)   A grant of exemption shall not eliminate the resale control
restriction set forth in these regulations. Any subsequent sale shall be
subject to all of the terms of these regulations.
('74 Code, § 131-87) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.016 RENTAL INCREASES.
   All re-rental transactions shall be administered by the Board. The rents of
affordable housing units may increase annually based on the percentage increase
in median income for the county housing region as determined from the uncapped
Section 8 income limits, published by HUD, or other recognized standard adopted
by the COAH that applies to the rental housing unit.
('74 Code, § 131-88) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.017 RENTAL OF LOW- AND MODERATE-INCOME SALES UNITS.
   No owner of an affordable housing unit may lease the unit to a tenant
without prior written approval of the Board. Such approval shall not be granted
except when justified by particular and unusual circumstances. An owner seeking
such approval shall submit a written request to the Board setting forth the
particular circumstances of the case including the reasons for the request to
rent, the proposed duration of the tenancy and certification that the proposed
tenant is a qualified low- or moderate-income household. In the event that the
Board approves the request, it shall notify the owner of the unit. The owner
shall rent the unit only to a qualified low- or moderate-income tenant for the
period approved by the Board at a rent affordable to a low- or moderate-income
tenant, whichever is applicable.
('74 Code, § 131-89) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.018 EXEMPTION FROM RENT-CONTROL ORDINANCES.
   All rental units, both market and affordable, shall not be subject to any
rent control ordinance which may be adopted in the township during the time
period in which affordable housing price controls are effective.
('74 Code, § 131-90) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.019 DURATION OF CONTROLS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, all sales units and
all rental units are subject to the provisions of this subchapter and shall be
subject to resale and rental controls for a period of at least 30 years from
the date of acquisition of the unit by the initial purchaser or lessee.
   (B)   The model restrictive covenant and mortgage lien contained in N.J.A.C.
5:93, Controls of Affordability, shall be applied to each affordable sale unit.
   (C)   All low- and moderate- income dwelling units shall be covered by
covenants to ensure that in all initial sales and rentals, and in all
subsequent resales and re-rentals, the units will continue to remain available
and affordable to the lower- income households for which they were intended for
the period specified in this section in accordance with the requirements and
standards established by COAH.
('74 Code, § 131-91) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.020 EXPIRATION OF CONTROLS; OPTION TO PURCHASE.
   (A)   The restrictive covenant governing the deeds of the low- and moderate-
income units shall include an option permitting purchase of the affordable unit
at the maximum allowable restricted sales price at the time of the first
nonexempt sale after controls on affordability have been in effect on the unit
for the period specified in this subchapter. The option to buy shall be
available to the township, the State Department of Community Affairs (DCA), the
State Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency (HMFA) or a qualified nonprofit
agency as determined by COAH.
   (B)   All restrictive covenants governing low- and moderate-income units
shall require the owner to notify the Board by certified mail of any intent to
sell the unit 90 days prior to entering into an agreement for the first
nonexempt sale after controls have been in effect on the housing units for the
period specified in this subchapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such notice, the option to buy the unit at the maximum
allowable restricted sales price shall be available for 90 days. The Board
shall notify the township, DCA, HMFA and COAH that the unit is for sale. If the
township exercises this option, it may enter into a contract of sale. If the
township fails to exercise this option within 90 days, the first of the other
entities giving notice to the seller of its intent to purchase during the 90-
day period shall be entitled to purchase the unit. If the option to purchase
the unit at the maximum allowable restricted sales price is not exercised by a
written intent to sell, the owner may proceed to sell the housing unit. If the
owner does not sell the unit within one year of the date of the delivery of
notice of intent to sell, the option to buy the unit shall be restored and the
owner shall be required to submit a new notice of intent to sell 90 days prior
to any future proposed date of sale.
   (D)   Any option to buy a housing unit at the maximum allowable restricted
sales price shall be exercised by certified mail and shall be deemed exercised
upon mailing.
      (1)   Township option.
         (a)   If the Board, as an entity of the municipality, elects to
purchase a low- or moderate-income unit pursuant to this subchapter, it may:
            1.   Convey or rent the housing unit to a low- or moderate-income
purchaser or tenant at a price or rent not to exceed the maximum allowable
restricted sales price or rental for a period of up to 30 years.
            2.   Convey the unit at fair market value subject to the deposit of
the price differential in a trust account devoted solely to the creation,
rehabilitation or maintenance of low- and moderate- income housing. “Price
differential” is defined as the difference between the restricted sales price
and fair market value as determined at the date of a proposed contract of sale
after reasonable real estate broker fees have been paid.
            3.   Money in the trust account may not be expended until the Board
develops a plan for its use which is approved by the Township Committee.
         (b)   In the event that the township purchases low- income housing
units, the township shall maintain them as low-income housing units.
         (c)   In the event that the township elects to purchase low- or
moderate-income housings and convey them at fair market value, the township
shall:
            1.   Notify COAH of any proposed sale and resale price 90 days
before closing.
            2.   Notify COAH of the price differential.
            3.   Deposit the price differential in a trust account devoted
solely to the creation, rehabilitation or maintenance of low- and moderate-
income housing.
            4.   Notify COAH by February 1 of each calendar year of the
existing balance within this trust account.
         (d)   Money deposited in trust accounts may not be expended until the
municipality submits and COAH approves a repayment housing plan. COAH may
approve the repayment housing plan if it determines that it provides a
realistic opportunity for the creation, rehabilitation or maintenance of low-
and moderate- income housing.
         (e)   The township shall have the right to determine that the most
desirable means of promoting an adequate supply of low- and moderate-income
housing is to prohibit the exercise of the repayment option and maintain
controls on lower-income housing units sold within the municipality beyond the
period required by this subchapter. Such determination shall be made by
resolution of the municipal governing body. The resolution shall specify the
time period for which the repayment option shall not be applicable. During such
period, no seller in the municipality may utilize the repayment option
permitted by division (D)(4) below.
         (f)   If the township exercises the option outlined above, it shall:
            1.   Provide public notice in a newspaper of general circulation.
            2.   Notify the Board of its governing body's action. The Board
shall ensure that the deed restriction on all affected housing units reflects
extended period of controls.
      (2)   State option. When the DCA or HMFA elects to purchase a low- or
moderate- income unit pursuant to this section it may:
         (a)   Convey or rent the housing unit to a low- or moderate-income
purchaser or tenant at a price or rent not to exceed the allowable restricted
sales price or rental; or
         (b)   Convey the unit at fair market value and utilize the price
differential to subsidize construction, rehabilitation or maintenance of low-
and moderate-income housing within the appropriate housing region.
      (3)   Nonprofit option. Nonprofit agencies that have been designated by
COAH shall be eligible to purchase low- or moderate-income units pursuant to
this section for the sole purpose of conveying or renting the housing unit to a
low- or moderate-income purchaser or tenant at a price or rent not to exceed
the allowable restricted sales price or rental. Low-income units shall be made
available to low-income purchasers or tenants and the housing unit shall be
regulated by the restrictive covenant and lien adopted by COAH. The term of the
controls on affordability shall be the same as those required by this
subchapter.
      (4)   Seller option. An eligible seller of a low- or moderate-income unit
which has been controlled for the period established in this plan who has
provided notice of an intent to sell may proceed with the sale if no eligible
entity as outlined in §
153.019 exercises its option to purchase within 90 days.
         (a)   The seller may elect to:
            1.   Sell to a qualified low- and moderate- income household at the
controlled unit sales price, provided that the unit is regulated by the
restrictive covenant and lien adopted by the agency for a period of up to 30
years; or
            2.   Exercise the repayment option and sell to any purchaser at
market price, provided that 95% of the price differential is paid to the
agency, as instrument of the municipality, at closing.
         (b)   If the sale will be to a qualified low- and moderate-income
household, the Board shall certify the income qualifications of the purchaser
and shall ensure that the housing unit is regulated by the restrictive covenant
and lien required by the Board.
         (c)   The Board shall examine any contract of sale containing a
repayment option to determine if the proposed sales price bears a reasonable
relationship to the housing unit's fair market value. In making this
determination, the Board may rely on comparable sales data or an appraisal. The
Board shall not approve any contract of sale where there is a determination
that the sales price does not bear a reasonable relationship to fair market
value. The Board shall make a determination within 20 days of receipt of the
contract of sale and shall calculate the repayment option payment.
         (d)   The Board shall also adopt an appeal procedure by which a seller
may submit written documentation requesting the Board to recompute the
repayment obligation if the seller believes an error has been made or to
reconsider a determination that a sales price does not bear a reasonable
relationship to fair market value. A repayment obligation determination made as
a result of an owner's appeal shall be a final administrative determination of
the agency.
         (e)   The repayment shall occur at the date of closing and transfer of
title for the first nonexempt transaction after the expiration of controls on
affordability. Repayment proceeds shall be deposited in a trust account devoted
solely to low- and moderate-income housing. Money deposited in trust accounts
may not be expended until the agency develops and obtains township approval of
a plan for its use.
      (5)   Continued application of options. When a housing unit has been
maintained as a low- or moderate-income unit after controls have been in effect
for the period specified in §
153.019, the restrictive covenant governing the housing units shall allow the
township, the state, nonprofit agencies and sellers of low- and moderate-
income units to again exercise all the same options as provided in this
subchapter.
('74 Code, § 131-92) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.021 FORECLOSURES.
   (A)   Any mortgage for a low- and moderate-income unit shall contain a
provision requiring the holder of a mortgage on the property to inform the
Board at any time that the purchaser of a unit is 45 days or more in arrears on
payment of his/her mortgage. The Board shall further be notified by the
mortgagee in the event of institution of a foreclosure action. This
notification provision does not apply to any mortgage which prohibits notice to
a third party.
   (B)   The Board shall at all times have the right to intervene in any
foreclosure action. In addition, the Board shall have the right to advance and
pay all sums necessary to cure any arrears, to cure any other default or
exercise any right of redemption or pay and satisfy any first mortgage or other
lien so that the unit may be preserved and retained as a low- and moderate-
income unit. All sums advanced by the agency shall become a lien against the
unit and shall have higher priority than any lien except that of a first
mortgage and tax or other liens held by any government agencies.
('74 Code, § 131-93) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.022 FORECLOSURE EXEMPTION FOR RESALE CONTROLS.
   In the event of a foreclosure by an institutional first mortgagee, the unit
shall be exempt from all further resale restrictions, provided that the
following conditions have been satisfied:
   (A)   The first mortgage did not exceed 100% of the authorized sales price
of the unit by the current occupancy (unless written authorization was given by
the agency for the owner to enter into a mortgage for a higher amount).
   (B)   The Board has been given both notice of the default by the mortgagee,
as well as notice of the institution of foreclosure. In addition, the Board has
not exercised its rights to cure the default.
   (C)   The lender who is the foreclosing mortgagee is the successful bidder
at a sheriff's sale and takes title by deed from the sheriff, or the Board has
given written approval for a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
('74 Code, § 131-94) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.023 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR SECOND MORTGAGE.
   No second mortgage shall be placed upon the property without the prior
written approval of the Board. In determining whether to grant an approval for
the second mortgage, the Board shall consider the need for the second mortgage
and the impact that the second mortgage shall have upon the ability of the
Board to maintain this unit as a low- and moderate-income unit. Under no
circumstances shall a foreclosure of a second mortgage constitute grounds for
eliminating the resale controls provided for in this subchapter. Prior written
approval shall be denied unless second mortgages are specifically authorized by
COAH regulations and the application is consistent with those regulations.
('74 Code, § 131-95) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.024 SALE OF PERSONAL ITEMS.
   Items of personal property which are not permanently affixed to the unit
(such as refrigerator, freezer, washer, dryer) and which were not included when
the affordable housing unit was purchased may be subject to separate
negotiations between the parties subsequent to the signing of the contract for
the purchase of the house. Any agreed price for the purchase of any item or
items of personal property shall be reasonable considering the original cost,
nature, age and condition of the item. The price to be paid for items of
personal property shall not be used as a mechanism to avoid or circumvent the
limitations on the resale price of the unit itself. In no event shall the right
to purchase the unit be conditioned upon the buyer's willingness to agree to
purchase any item or items of personal properties of the seller.
('74 Code, § 131-96) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.025 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for a low- or moderate- income unit shall
be issued until the developer shall have submitted and have approved by the
Township Solicitor deed restrictions encompassing all the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for the resale of a low-
or moderate- income unit unless the Board shall certify that the resale
complies with the terms of this subchapter.
   (C)   No low- and moderate- income unit may be occupied by an initial
purchaser or resale purchaser without a certificate of occupancy.
('74 Code, § 131-97) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 153.026 AFFIRMATIVE MARKETING.
   (A)   Intent. The low- and moderate-income housing units shall be
aggressively marketed so as to attract potential purchasers and/or renters of
all majority and minority groups, regardless of age, race, sex, religion or
number of children, residing or working within the housing region, including
the counties of Camden and Burlington.
   (B)   Outreach.
      (1)   The availability of low- and moderate-income units in any
development shall be advertised beginning at least three months prior to the
expected issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any of the low- and
moderate-income housing. Thereafter, such advertising shall occur on an as-
needed basis throughout the period of the deed restriction with a frequency
sufficient to maintain a waiting list of at least five income-eligible
households for each low- and moderate-income unit that has been constructed.
      (2)   The primary advertising shall take the form of weekly press
releases and paid block advertisements in at least the following newspapers:
the Courier-Post, The Journal and the Burlington County Times.
      (3)   Additionally, monthly advertising circulars shall be sent to each
of the following agencies for publication in their journals and for circulation
among their members: the Camden County Board of Realtors and the Burlington
County Board of Realtors.
      (4)   Monthly informational circulars shall also be sent to the heads of
each of the following agencies in the counties of Camden and Burlington: the
County Department of Human Services; the County Rental Assistance Office (local
office of the Department of Community Affairs); the County Office on Aging; the
County Housing Agency or Authority, if applicable; and the County Library (main
branches).
   (C)   Content.  Each advertisement or circular shall provide at least the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the project.
      (2)   The number of units, including the number of sales and/or rental
units.
      (3)   The description (number of bedrooms, and the like) and prices of
sales and/or rental units.
      (4)   The approximate starting date for initial occupancy.
      (5)   The name, physical address, telephone numbers and office hours of
the rental manager and/or sales agent.
   (D)   Applications. Application forms for prequalification for the low- and
moderate-income units shall be available, as a minimum, in each of the
following locations: the Township Municipal Building (Clerk's Office), the
Camden County Library (Voorhees) and the developer's sales or rental office(s).
   (E)   Costs. The cost of the affirmative marketing plan shall be covered by
a housing administration fee charged to the developer at the time of initial
occupancy of an affordable unit or to the owner or seller at the time of re-
rental or resale of an affordable unit. The housing administration fee shall be
payable to the township.
   (F)   Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the Housing
Administrator to oversee the administration of the affirmative marketing plan
along with overseeing the actual sales and rentals of the low- and moderate-
income units by the developer. The developer shall provide copies of all
application and sales records concerning the low- and moderate-income housing
units to the Housing Administrator and the Township Clerk for reporting
purposes and to aid in future resales or rentals.
   (G)   Implementation.
      (1)   Households that apply for low- and moderate- income housing shall
be screened for preliminary income eligibility by comparing their total income
to the low- and moderate-income limits adopted by COAH. Applicants shall be
notified as to their eligibility status.
      (2)   Having screened applicants for preliminary income eligibility, the
municipal entity may analyze the income and household sizes of applicants to
determine which applicants have the assets and/or income necessary to purchase
or rent each available low- or moderate- income unit.
      (3)   The municipal entity shall interview each applicant and utilize the
procedures outlined in N.J.A.C. 5:93-9.1 to: verify the applicant's income and
household size; determine the applicant's asset availability; and review the
applicant's credit history. Applicants shall be required to submit income
verification for each household member 18 years or older. This process shall be
utilized in establishing the final certified applicant group.
      (4)   The process described in divisions (A) through (C) may begin no
sooner than one month after the advertising program outlined in N.J.A.C. 5:93-
11.3 begins. Households shall be selected to proceed through the process
described in divisions (A) through (C) through a method of random selection.
Households shall be certified for low- and moderate- income units using the
procedures outlined in N.J.A.C. 5:93-9.1. The process described in divisions
(A) through (C) shall be continued until all the low- and moderate-income units
are occupied.
   (H)   Monitoring. The Housing Administrator shall evaluate the results of
the affirmative marketing activities undertaken in accordance with the
affirmative marketing plan and file monitoring reports with the Council on
Affordable Housing on or before August 30 of each year, with such reports to
include:
      (1)   Monitoring forms approved by COAH, completed and signed.
      (2)   Copies of any press releases, brochures, flyers, print
advertisements and application forms used in the affirmative marketing program.
      (3)   An evaluation of the income and demographic characteristics of each
applicant for low- and moderate-income housing, as well as the occupants of the
units.
      (4)   An evaluation of any necessary adjustments required to the
affirmative marketing program.
('74 Code, § 131-98) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.027 WAIVER.
   In the event of a special hardship or in the event that a minor technical
modification of these regulations is necessary to effectively implement the
policy of this subchapter, the Board may waive or modify those regulations
relating to occupancy selection, sale or resale prices, or income eligibility
standards, provided that such waiver of modification is consistent with the
intent of these regulations and the Land Use Regulations and does not violate
COAH policy, regulations or statute.
('74 Code, § 131-99) (Ord. 15-1975, passed 8-11-75; Am. Ord. 369-1987, passed
7-27-87; Am. Ord. 699-94, passed 6-13-94; Am. Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am.
Ord. 43-04, passed 3-22-04; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 153.028 AFFORDABLE HOUSING IMPACT FEES. 
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   In Holmdel Builder's Association v. Holmdel Township, 121 NJ, 550
(1990), the New Jersey Supreme Court determined that mandatory development fees
are authorized by the Pair Housing Act of 1985 (the Act), N.J.S.A. 52:27D-301
et seq., and the State Constitution, subject to the Council on Affordable
Housing's (COAH's) adoption of rules.
      (2)   Pursuant to P.L. 2008, c.46 section R (C.52:27D-329.2) and the
Statewide Nonresidential Development Fee Act (C.40:55D-8.1 through 8.7), COAH
is authorized to adopt and promulgate regulations necessary for the
establishment, implementation, review, monitoring and enforcement of municipal
affordable housing trust funds and corresponding spending plans. Municipalities
that are under the jurisdiction of the Council or court of competent
jurisdiction and have a COAH-approved spending plan may retain fees collected
from nonresidential development.
      (3)   This section establishes standards for the collection, maintenance,
and expenditure of development fees pursuant to COAH's regulations and in
accordance P.L. 2008, c.46, Sections 8 and 32 through 38. Fees collected
pursuant to this section shall be used for the sole purpose of providing low-
and moderate-income housing. This section shall be interpreted within the
framework of COAH's rules on development fees, codified at N.J.A.C. 5:97-8.
   (B)   Basic requirements.
      (1)   This section shall not be effective until approved by COAH or the
court pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:96-5.1.
      (2)   Voorhees Township shall not spend development fees until COAH or
the court has approved a plan for spending such fees in conformance with
N.J.A.C. 5:97-8.10 and N.J.A.C. 5:96-5.3.
   (C)   Definitions. The following terms, as used in this section, shall have
the following meanings:
      AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development included in the Housing
Element and Fair Share Plan, and includes, but is not limited to, an
inclusionary development, a municipal construction project or a 100% affordable
development.
      COAH or THE COUNCIL. The New Jersey Council on Affordable Housing
established under the Act, which has primary jurisdiction for the
administration of housing obligations in accordance with sound regional
planning consideration in the State.
      DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any
land proposed to be included in a proposed development, including the holder of
an option or contract to purchase, or other person having an enforceable
proprietary interest in such land.
      DEVELOPMENT FEE. Money paid by a developer for the improvement of
property as permitted in N.J.A.C. 5:97-8.3.
      EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE. The assessed value of a property divided by the
current average ratio of assessed to true value for the municipality in which
the property is situated, as determined in accordance with Sections 1, 5, and 6
of P.L. 1973, c.123 (C.54:1-35a through C.54:1-35c).
      GREEN BUILDING STRATEGIES. Those strategies that minimize the impact of
development on the environment, and enhance the health, safety and well-being
of residents by producing durable, low- maintenance, resource-efficient housing
while making optimum use of existing infrastructure and community services.
      MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. Any development which includes both a
nonresidential development component and a residential development component,
and shall include developments for which: (1) there is a common developer for
both the residential development component and the nonresidential development
component, provided that for purposes of this definition, multiple persons and
entities may be considered a common developer if there is a contractual
relationship among them obligating each entity to develop at least a portion of
the residential or nonresidential development, or both, or otherwise to
contribute resources to the development; and (2) the residential and
nonresidential developments are located on the same lot or adjoining lots,
including but not limited to lots separated by a street, a river, or another
geographical feature.
      NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.   
         (a)   Any building or structure, or portion thereof, including but not
limited to any appurtenant improvements, which is designated to a use group
other than a residential use group according to the State Uniform Construction
Code promulgated to effectuate the “State Uniform Construction Code Act,” P.L.
1975, c.217 (C.52:27D-119 et seq.), including any subsequent amendments or
revisions thereto;
         (b)   Hotels, motels, vacation timeshares, and child-care facilities;
and
         (c)   The entirety of all continuing care facilities within a
continuing care retirement community which is subject to the “Continuing Care
Retirement Community Regulation and Financial Disclosure Act,” P.L. 1986, c.103
(C.52:27D-330 et seq.).
      NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT FEE. The fee authorized to be imposed pursuant
to Sections 32 through 38 of P.L. 2008, c.46 (C.40.55D-8.1 through C.40:55D-
8.7).
      RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF HOUSING. Shall be liberally construed to
include the construction, maintenance, or operation of housing, including but
not limited to the provision of services to such housing and the funding of any
of the above.
      SPENDING PLAN. A method of allocating funds collected and to be collected
pursuant to an approved municipal development fee ordinance, or pursuant to
P.L. 2008, c.46 (C.52:27D-329.1 et al.) for the purpose of meeting the housing
needs of low- and moderate-income individuals.
   (D)   Residential development fees.
      (1)   Imposed fees.
         (a)   Within all zoning districts in the Township, developers of all
new residential dwelling units not exempt from the collection of development
fees in accordance with division (D)(2) of this section shall pay a fee of 1.5%
of the equalized assessed value for residential development, provided no
increased density is permitted.
         (b)   When an increase in residential density pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-70d(5) (known as a “d” variance) has been permitted, developers may be
required to pay a development fee of 6% of the equalized assessed value for
each additional unit that may be realized. However, if the zoning on a site has
changed during the two-year period preceding the filing of such a variance
application, the base density for the purposes of calculating the bonus
development fee shall be the highest density permitted by right during the two-
year period preceding the filing of the variance application.
         Example: If an approval allows four units to be constructed on a site
that was zoned for two units, the fees could equal 1.5% of the equalized
assessed value on the first two units; and the specified higher percentage up
to 6% of the equalized assessed value for the two additional units, provided
zoning on the site has not changed during the two-year period preceding the
filing of such a variance application.
      (2)   Eligible exactions, ineligible exactions and exemptions for
residential development.
         (a)   Affordable housing developments and developments where the
developer has made a payment in lieu of on- site construction of affordable
units shall be exempt from development fees.
         (b)   Developments that have received preliminary or final site plan
approval prior to the adoption of a municipal development fee ordinance shall
be exempt from development fees, unless the developer seeks a substantial
change in the approval. Where a site plan approval does not apply, a zoning
and/or building permit shall be synonymous with preliminary or final site plan
approval for this purpose. The fee percentage shall be vested on the date that
the building permit is issued.
         (c)   Development fees shall be imposed and collected when an existing
structure undergoes a change to a more intense use (such as from a single-
family to a two-family dwelling). The development fee shall be calculated on
the increase in the equalized assessed value of the improved structure.
Development fees are not required for additions to existing dwelling units or
for accessory structures.
         (d)   Developers of residential structures demolished and replaced as
a result of a natural disaster shall be exempt from paying a development fee.
   (E)   Nonresidential development fees.
      (1)   Imposed fees.
         (a)   Within all zoning districts, nonresidential developers, except
for developers of the types of development specifically exempted, shall pay a
fee equal to 2.5% of the equalized assessed value of the land and improvements,
for all new nonresidential construction on an unimproved lot or lots.
         (b)    Nonresidential developers, except for developers of the types
of development specifically exempted, shall also pay a fee equal to 2.5% of the
increase in equalized assessed value resulting from any additions to existing
structures to be used for nonresidential purposes.
         (c)   Development fees shall be imposed and collected when an existing
structure is demolished and replaced. The development fee of 2.5% shall be
calculated on the difference between the equalized assessed value of the
preexisting land and improvement and the equalized assessed value of the newly
improved structure, i.e. land and improveinent, at the time final certificate
of occupancy is issued. If the calculation required under this section results
in a negative number, the nonresidential development fee shall be zero.
      (2)   Eligible exactions, ineligible exactions and exemptions for
nonresidential development.
         (a)   The nonresidential portion of a mixed-use inclusionary or market
rate development shall be subject to the 2.5% development fee, unless otherwise
exempted below.
         (b)   The 2.5% fee shall not apply to an increase in equalized
assessed value resulting from alterations, change in use within existing
footprint, reconstruction, renovations and repairs.
         (c)    Nonresidential developments shall be exempt from the payment of
nonresidential development fees in accordance with the exemptions required
pursuant to P.L. 2008, c.46, as specified in the Form N- RDF “State of New
Jersey Nonresidential Development Certification/Exemption” Form. Any exemption
claimed by a developer shall be substantiated by that developer.
         (d)   A developer of a nonresidential development exempted from the
nonresidential development fee pursuant to P.L. 2008, c.46 shall be subject to
it at such time the basis for the exemption no longer applies, and shall make
the payment of the nonresidential development fee, in that event, within three
years after that event or after the issuance of the final certificate of
occupancy of the nonresidential development, whichever is later.
         (e)   If a property which was exempted from the collection of a
nonresidential development fee thereafter ceases to be exempt from property
taxation, the owner of the property shall remit the fees required pursuant to
this section within 45 days of the termination of the property tax exemption.
Unpaid nonresidential development fees under these circumstances may be
enforceable by the Township as a lien against the real property of the owner.
   (F)   Collection procedures.
      (1)   Upon the granting of a preliminary, final or other applicable
approval, for a development, the applicable approving authority shall direct
its staff to notify the construction official responsible for the issuance of a
building permit.
      (2)   For nonresidential developments only, the developer shall also be
provided with a copy of Form N-RDF “State of New Jersey Nonresidential
Development Certification/Exemption” to be completed as per the instructions
provided. The developer of a nonresidential development shall complete Form N-
RDF as per the instructions provided. The construction official shall verify
the information submitted by the nonresidential developer as per the
instructions provided in the Form N-RDF. The Tax Assessor shall verify
exemptions and prepare estimated and final assessments as per the instructions
provided in Form N- RDF.
      (3)   The construction official responsible for the issuance of a
building permit shall notify the local Tax Assessor of the issuance of the
first building permit for a development which is subject to a development fee.
      (4)   Within 90 days of receipt of that notice, the Municipal Tax
Assessor, based on the plans filed, shall provide an estimate of the equalized
assessed value of the development.
      (5)   The construction official responsible for the issuance of a final
certificate of occupancy notifies the local Assessor of any and all requests
for the scheduling of a final inspection on property which is subject to a
development fee.
      (6)   Within ten business days of a request for the scheduling of a final
inspection, the Municipal Assessor shall confirm or modify the previously
estimated equalized assessed value of the improvements of the development;
calculate the development fee; and thereafter notify the developer of the
amount of the fee.
      (7)   Should the Township fail to determine or notify the developer of
the amount of the development fee within ten business days of the request for
final inspection, the developer may estimate the amount due and pay that
estimated amount consistent with the dispute process set forth in subsection b.
of Section 37 of P.L. 2008, c.46 (C.40:55D-8.6).
      (8)   Fifty percent of the development fee shall be collected at the time
of issuance of the building permit. The remaining portion shall be collected at
the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. The developer shall be
responsible for paying the difference between the fee calculated at building
permit and that determined at issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      (9)   Appeal of development fees.
         (a)   A developer may challenge residential development fees imposed
by filing a challenge with the County Board of Taxation. Pending a review and
determination by the Board, collected fees shall be placed in an interest
bearing escrow account by the Township. Appeals from a determination of the
Board may be made to the tax court in accordance with the provisions of the
State Tax Uniform Procedure Law, R.S. 54:48-1 et seq., within 90 days after the
date of such determination. Interest earned on amounts escrowed shall be
credited to the prevailing party.
         (b)   A developer may challenge nonresidential development fees
imposed by filing a challenge with the Director of the Division of Taxation.
Pending a review and determination by the Director, which shall be made within
45 days of receipt of the challenge, collected fees shall be placed in an
interest-bearing escrow account by the Township. Appeals from a determination
of the Director may be made to the tax court in accordance with the provisions
of the State Tax Uniform Procedure Law, R.S. 54:48-1 et seq., within 90 days
after the date of such determination. Interest earned on amounts escrowed shall
be credited to the prevailing party.
   (G)   Affordable Housing Trust Fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created a separate, interest- bearing housing trust
fund to be maintained by the Chief Financial Officer for the purpose of
depositing development fees collected from residential and nonresidential
developers and proceeds from the sale of units with extinguished controls.
      (2)   The following additional funds shall be deposited in the Affordable
Housing Trust Fund and shall at all times be identifiable by source and amount:
         (a)   Payments in lieu of on-site construction of affordable units;
         (b)   Developer contributed funds to make 10% of the adaptable
entrances in a townhouse or other multistory attached development accessible;
         (c)   Rental income from municipally-operated units;
         (d)   Repayments from affordable housing program loans;
         (e)   Recapture funds;
         (f)   Proceeds from the sale of affordable units; and
         (g)   Any other funds collected in connection with the Township's
affordable housing program.
      (3)   Within seven days from the opening of the bust fund account, the
Township shall provide COAH with written authorization, in the form of a three-
party escrow agreement between the municipality, the bank, and COAH, to permit
COAH to direct the disbursement of the funds as provided for in N.J.A.C. 5:97-
8.13(b).
      (4)   All interest accrued in the housing trust fund shall only be used
on eligible affordable housing activities approved by COAH.
   (H)   Use of funds.
      (1)   The expenditure of all funds shall conform to a spending plan
approved by COAH. Funds deposited in the housing trust fund may be used for any
activity approved by COAH to address the Township's fair share obligation and
may be set up as a grant or revolving loan program. Such activities include,
but are not limited to: preservation or purchase of housing for the purpose of
maintaining or implementing affordability controls, rehabilitation, new
construction of affordable housing units and related costs, accessory
apartment, market to affordable, or regional housing partnership programs,
conversion of existing nonresidential buildings to create new affordable units,
green building strategies designed to be cost saving and in accordance with
accepted national or state standards, purchase of land for affordable housing,
improvement of land to be used for affordable housing, extensions or
improvements of roads and infrastructure to affordable housing sites, financial
assistance designed to increase affordability, administration necessary for
creation or implementation of the Housing Element and Fair Share Plan, or any
other activity as permitted pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:97-8.7 through 8.9 and
specified in the approved spending plan.
      (2)   Funds shall not be expended to reimburse the Township for past
housing activities.
      (3)   At least 30% of all development fees collected and interest earned
shall be used to provide affordability assistance to low- and moderate- income
households in affordable units included in the municipal Fair Share Plan. One-
third of the affordability assistance portion of development fees collected
shall be used to provide affordability assistance to those households earning
30% or less of median income by region.
         (a)   Affordability assistance programs may include down payment
assistance, security deposit assistance, low interest loans, rental assistance,
assistance with homeowners association or condominium fees and special
assessments, and assistance with emergency repairs.
         (b)   Affordability assistance to households earning 30% or less of
median income may include buying down the cost of low or moderate income units
in the municipal Fair Share Plan to make them affordable to households earning
30% or less of median income. The use of development fees in this manner shall
entitle the Township to bonus credits pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:97-3.7.
         (c)   Payments in lieu of constructing affordable units on site and
funds from the sale of units with extinguished controls shall be exempt from
the affordability assistance requirement.
      (4)   The Township may contract with a private or public entity to
administer any part of its Housing Element and Fair Share Plan, including the
requirement for affordability assistance, in accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:96-18.
      (5)   No more than 20% of all revenues collected from development fees
may be expended on administration, including, but not limited to, salaries and
benefits for municipal employees or consultant fees necessary to develop or
implement a new construction program, a Housing Element and Fair Share Plan,
and/or an affirmative marketing program. In the case of a rehabilitation
program, no more than 20% of the revenues collected from development fees shall
be expended for such administrative expenses. Administrative funds may be used
for income qualification of households, monitoring the turnover of sale and
rental units, and compliance with COAH's monitoring requirements. Legal or
other fees related to litigation opposing affordable housing sites or objecting
to the Council's regulations and/or action are not eligible uses of the
affordable housing trust fund.
   (I)   Monitoring. The Township shall complete and return to COAH all
monitoring forms included in monitoring requirements related to the collection
of development fees from residential and nonresidential developers, payments in
lieu of constructing affordable units on site, funds from the sale of units
with extinguished controls, barrier- free escrow funds, rental income,
repayments from affordable housing program loans, and any other funds collected
in connection with the Township’s housing program, as well as to the
expenditure of revenues and implementation of the plan approved by the court.
All monitoring reports shall be completed on forms designed by COAH.
   (J)   Ongoing collection of fees. The ability for the Township to impose,
collect and expend development fees shall expire with its substantive
certification unless the Township has filed an adopted Housing Element and Fair
Share Plan with COAH, has petitioned for substantive certification, and has
received COAH's approval of its development fee ordinance. If the Township
fails to renew its ability to impose and collect development fees prior to the
expiration of its substantive certification, it may be subject to forfeiture of
any or all funds remaining within its municipal trust fund. Any funds so
forfeited shall be deposited into the “New Jersey Affordable Housing Trust
Fund” established pursuant to Section 20 of P.L. 1985, c.222 (C.52:27D-320).
The Township shall not impose a residential development fee on a development
that receives preliminary or final site plan approval after the expiration of
its substantive certification or judgment of compliance, nor shall the Township
retroactively impose a development fee on such a development. The Township
shall not expend development fees after the expiration of its substantive
certification or judgment of compliance.
(Ord. 156-09, passed 10-26-09; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
CHAPTER 154: IMPROVEMENT REGULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
In General
   
154.001   (Reserved)
   
154.002   (Reserved)
   
154.003   (Reserved)
   
154.004   (Reserved)
   
154.005   (Reserved)
   
154.006   Buffer and landscape design standards
   
154.007   Lighting and wiring design standards
   
154.008   Adoption of residential site improvement standards
   
154.009   Bicycle compatible roadway and bikeways
   
154.010   Non-residential off-street parking and loading improvement design
standards
   
154.011   Open space buy down
   
154.012   (Reserved)
   
154.013   Recreational impact fees
   
154.014   (Reserved)
   
154.015   Design controls
   
154.016   Stream buffer conservation zone
   
154.017   Stormwater control
IN GENERAL
§ 154.001 (RESERVED).
§ 154.002 (RESERVED).
§ 154.003 (RESERVED).
§ 154.004 (RESERVED).
§ 154.005 (RESERVED).
§ 154.006 BUFFER AND LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Buffer design standards.
      (1)   Where the area and bulk standards for the applicable zoning
district require buffers, such buffers shall be shown on all site plans and
subdivision plans for development in such zoning districts.
      (2)   The composition of buffers, including, but not limited to,
landscaping and fencing, shall be applied as design standards, not zoning
criteria, and are for the primary purposes of eliminating views, and reducing
noise perception beyond the lot.
      (3)   No buildings, structures other than fences, storage of materials,
parking areas, roads or drive aisles or any other improvements shall be
permitted within the buffer areas; buffer areas shall be maintained and kept
free of all debris, rubbish, weeds, and tall grass.
      (4)   Buffer widths shall be measured horizontally. The design of buffers
shall consider the use being buffered, the distance between the use and the
property line, differences in elevation, the types of buffers and screens such
as dense planting, existing woods, buffer height and width and other
combinations of man-made and natural features. The buffer shall be designed,
planted, graded, landscaped and developed with the general guideline that the
closer a use or activity is to the property line or the more intense the use,
the more effective the buffer area must be in obscuring light and vision and
reducing noise beyond the lot. The typical 25-foot wide buffer shall be
comprised of three rows of trees and/or shrubs as specified planted five feet
on center.
The typical 50-foot wide buffer shall be a doubling of the 25- foot wide
buffer. The use of berms are encouraged as appropriate, and may be required.
      (5)   All buffer and other landscaping areas shall be planted and
maintained with either grass or ground cover, together with trees and shrubs,
and the following criteria shall be used as a guideline:
         (a)   Shrubs shall be at least three feet in height when planted and
be of such density as will obscure, throughout the course of the year, the
glare of headlights. Deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper of two and
one half to three inches. Evergreen trees shall be at least five feet in height
when planted.
         (b)   Any plant material which does not live shall be replaced within
1 growing season.
         (c)   Buffer plantings and landscaping shall open at points of
vehicular and pedestrian access to assure a clear sight triangle.
      (6)   Notwithstanding anything else contained in Title 15, if the area
required for any setback, including all buffer areas, adjacent to a
residentially zoned property contains pre-existing natural vegetation, trees,
shrubs or other buffer-type materials, the entire required setback area
adjacent to the residentially zoned property shall be maintained, as much as
possible, in its natural, pre-existing state with the allowance of a fence to
be installed on a residentially zoned property within the buffer contained on
that lot. Any disturbance of such area required during construction must be
restored with the planting of additional, similar trees and shrubs in
accordance with this § 154.006(A).
      (7)   The reviewing board may grant a variance from the required minimum
buffer width set forth in Section 152 if, based upon the exceptional
narrowness, topography or other natural features of the land or conditions and
circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant or the property
owner, strict conformance with such requirement would severely limit the
reasonable use and development of such property. Such variance may be granted
only if other improvements (such as fencing or berms) or additional landscaping
is provided in the
finally approved buffer area so as to satisfy the purpose and intent of the
buffer requirement.
      (8)   Where large-scale non-residential development is proposed adjacent
to existing residential development (or residentially zoned development), and
where at least a minimum 50 foot wide buffer is required, the following buffer
design standards shall apply. For purposes of this section, large-scale, non-
residential development shall be considered any project with a proposed
aggregate gross floor area of 50,000 square feet or more.
         (a)   Every 100 linear feet or buffer (or prorated portion thereof)
shall contain each of the following elements:
            1.   A minimum of 18 evergreen trees to be planted as follows:
               a.    Minimum planting height of seven feet.
               b.    Planted in clustered groups with a maximum plant spacing
of ten feet (on center).
               c.    Planted in a configuration that provides a continuous
screen along the length of the buffer.
            2.   A minimum of 40 shrubs to be planted as follows:
               a.    Planted in several masses with individual groupings
containing eight or more shrubs per mass.
               b.   The layout of the shrubs is to be utilized for both visual
interest and screening, and shall have a minimum planting height of 30 inches.
               c.   A minimum of 50% of shrub plantings shall be evergreen
species.
            3.   A minimum of three ornamental trees to be planted as follows:
               a.    Minimum planting height of eight feet.
            4.   A minimum of two shade trees to be planted as follows:
               a.    Minimum caliper of 2½ to 3 inches at time of planting.
            5.   A continuous earthen berm constructed to a minimum height of
six feet above the final design elevation of the adjoining proposed non-
residential or the adjoining residential property, whichever is higher in
elevation. The minimum berm height of six feet shall be maintained along the
entire length of the buffer area unless it is determined by the Board that a
discontinuation or break in the berm design can be accommodated without
impacting the effectiveness of the intended screen to the adjacent residential
use.
            6.   A continuous six feet high decorative solid wood or vinyl
fence shall be provided along the top of the berm. Proposed plantings shall be
located on the residential side of the fence. The fencing shall also be
constructed such that the decorative side of the fence faces the residential
properties.
         (b)   The above noted plantings shall generally be located on the
upper elevations of the berm and planted on a continuous four inch deep
shredded hardwood mulch bed. Refer to detail for visual reference.
         (c)   In situations where existing vegetation can be preserved within
the 50 foot buffer,
the screening quality of the vegetation and its ability to provide an effective
year-round buffer shall be evaluated by the Board prior to recommending a
reduction in the required buffer design standard. As a minimum, existing
vegetation shall be supplemented with evergreen trees at a rate of 10 trees per
100 feet or buffer and a continuous six foot high decorative solid wood or
vinyl fence. The Board may require that supplemental screening for existing
vegetative buffers be provided outside of the 50 foot buffer area to avoid
disturbance to established trees.
         (d)   All required buffer plantings shall be irrigated. The plans
shall indicate what means will be used to provide irrigation to the buffer
plantings.
   (B)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be provided as approved by the reviewing board to
provide shade, designate entrances, screen parking from roads, buffer utility
areas and provide aesthetic interest throughout the year. Along Route 73, a
berm and plantings are required to screen parking from the road. The minimum
tree size along Route 73 shall be three and one half to 4 inches in caliper,
either 50 feet on center or equivalent.
      (2)   Protection of existing plantings. Maximum effort shall be made to
save existing plantings (because of size or relative rarity). No material or
temporary soil deposits shall be placed within four feet of shrubs or 10 feet
of tree designated to be retained. Protective barriers or tree wells shall be
installed around each plant and/or group of plants that are to remain on the
site. Snow fences and silt fences are examples of acceptable barriers.
      (3)   Slope plantings. Landscaping in the area of all cuts and fills and/
or terraces shall be sufficient to prevent erosion, and all roadway slopes
steeper than one foot vertically to three feet horizontally shall be planted
with ground covers appropriate for the purpose and soil conditions, water
availability, and environment.
      (4)   Additional landscaping. In nonresidential developments, all areas
of the site not occupied by buildings and improvements shall be landscaped by
the planting of grass or other ground cover, shrubs, and trees as part of a
site plan approved.
      (5)   Only nursery-grown plant materials shall be acceptable; and all
trees, shrubs, and ground covers shall be planted according to accepted
horticultural standards.
      
      (6)   Plant species. The plant species selected should be hardy for the
climatic zone and appropriate in terms of function and size.
      (7)   Maintenance. Plantings shall be watered regularly and in a manner
appropriate for the specific plant species through the first growing season,
and dead or dying plants shall be replaced by the applicant during the next
planting season.
      (8)   Parking lot landscaping. In parking lots, at least 5% of the
interior parking area shall be landscaped with plantings, and one tree for each
10 spaces shall be installed. Parking lot street frontage screening and
perimeter screening shall be a minimum of five feet wide. Planting required
within the parking lot is exclusive of other planting requirements.
   (C)   Topsoil protection. No topsoil shall be removed from any site or used
as subsoil. Topsoil removed during the course of construction shall be
redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover to all areas and
shall be stabilized by seeding or planting. Under no circumstances shall any
soil or earth be sold or otherwise removed, unless pursuant to the approval by
the reviewing.
   (D)   Refuse and recycling area screening.
      (1)   Trash and recycling areas shall be enclosed on three sides by
masonry walls not less than six feet nor more than eight feet in height and
must be compatible with the architectural scheme of the development.
      (2)   The enclosure gates shall be constructed of solid welded steel
panels.
      (3)   Landscaping consisting of six foot high evergreen trees shall be
installed to screen the perimeter of the masonry walls.
      (4)   Trash and recycling pickup shall only be permitted between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.   
   (E)   Compensatory planting.
      (1)   Removal of trees having a caliper of five inches or greater as
measured 36 inches above
ground from any lot is prohibited in the process of grading or installing
improvements. Where, in the judgment of the reviewing board, such removal is
unavoidable and constraints incident to the land itself (including, without
limitation, extreme topography, unsuitable soils, rock outcrops and existing
uninterrupted dense canopy) render it impractical to locate on the lot the
required number of compensatory trees, then, at the election of the reviewing
board, the applicant shall either install a portion of the required
compensatory trees on other public lands within the Township or make a
contribution in lieu thereof in accordance with division (E)(4) of this
section, said contribution to be based upon the estimated cost of those trees
which cannot practically be installed on the property as determined by the
reviewing engineer.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the five-inch caliper limitation set forth above,
no substantial area of smaller trees or shrub cover shall be removed without
the provision of comparable replacement as approved by the reviewing board. The
site plan or subdivision plan approval applications shall include a tree
removal and replacement plan and statement indicating the trees and/or material
to be removed and the plan for compensatory replacement pursuant to this §
154.006(E).
      (3)   The following shall be exempt from the requirements of this §
154.006(E):
         (a)   Managed woodlands and agricultural uses.
         (b)   Trees removed during normal homeowner maintenance and not
exceeding an area of disturbance of more than 500 square feet. Examples of
normal homeowner maintenance would include trees removed due to storm damage or
disease and those removed to prevent damage to roofs, swimming pools,
utilities, driveways and landscaping.
         (c)   Trees removed due to clearing for the following:
            1.   Road, utility and pedestrian right-of-ways;
            2.   Areas within the foundation lines of a proposed building; or
            3.   Areas within front yard areas required for the installation of
utility service lines, entry walks and driveways.
      (4)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, in no event shall the fee
under this section for compensatory planting for a single unit, single
residential property exceed $5,000 for a residential lot of one acre or less,
or exceed $10,000 for a residential lot greater than one acre. This exception
shall not apply to commercial developers owning and developing residential lots
for sale to others.
      (5)   Any money deposited or paid to the Township pursuant to division
(E)(1) above, or previously paid to the Township for compensatory plantings
consistent with the Voorhees Township Code, shall be paid into the Township
Open Space Fund.
   (F)   Route 73 landscape design standards. These standards apply to all
properties fronting on New Jersey Route 73 regardless of the zone district.
They shall apply specifically to the area within 50 feet of the Route 73 right-
of-way line. All subdivision and site plan applications involving such
properties shall provide a landscaping plan that demonstrates compliance with
these standards. If unique site-specific circumstances, such as wetlands or
existing vegetation, preclude the installation of any of the prescribed
landscaping elements, the applicant shall provide an alternative plan that
incorporates as many elements as is feasible. In all cases, however, provisions
must be made for continuing the sidewalk and multi-purpose path elements. No
drainage basins or facilities shall be located in the 50-foot landscaping area
covered by these standards.
      (1)   General corridor plan. The following diagrams depict the overall
design concept to be achieved along the Route 73 corridor. Diagram 1 includes a
multi-purpose path, which shall be applied to properties on both sides of Route
73.
      (2)   Planting details (general). Plant selection should conform to the
following general design principles:
         (a)   All landscape plants shall be typical full specimens conforming
to the American Association of Nurserymen Standards (ANA) for quality and
installation.
         (b)   Local soil conditions and water availability shall be considered
in the plant selection. All plants shall be tolerant of specific site
conditions. The use of indigenous species may be appropriate.
         (c)   Landscaping shall not inhibit access by emergency vehicles or
inhibit visibility within required vehicular sight triangles.
         (d)   Irrigation systems are to be provided for all new plantings.
         (e)   An appropriate variety of tree species shall be provided to
avoid die-out due to species-specific diseases.
      (3)   Street tree details. Street trees shall be provided in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The placement of street trees shall conform to diagrams 1 and 2.
         (b)   The number of street trees shall average one for every 35 linear
feet of property frontage.
         (c)   Spacing between trees shall be determined based upon species
selection. In general, trees should be between 30 and 50 feet on center.
         (d)   Trees should be a minimum of three and one-half to four inches
caliper, based on ANA standards.
         (e)   Trees are to be disease resistant and tolerant of road salts and
air pollution.
         (f)   On properties with more than one tree species, species shall not
be alternated one-by-one; instead a single species shall be grouped together to
create a canopy effect.
         (g)   Branching height shall bear a relationship to the size and
species of tree but shall have a minimum clearance height of seven feet above
grade before branching begins.
         (h)   All trees to be installed shall be balled and burlapped in
accordance with ANA standards.
         (i)   All trees shall be mulched to a depth of three inches in a
minimum six-foot diameter ring around the base of each tree.
         (j)   Acceptable street tree species shall be chosen from the
following list of street trees, unless the applicant proves to the Township
Engineer or Landscape Architect that another species will meet the above
criteria:
      * Acer campestre - Hedge campestre
      * Acer rubrum - Red Maple
      * Fraxinus pennsylvanica - Green Ash
      * Pyrus calleryana - Callery Pear
      * Quercus acutissima - Sawtooth Oak
      * Quercus coccinea - Scarlet Oak
      
      * Quercus phellos - Willow Oak
      
      * Tilia cordata - Littleleaf Linden
      
      * Tilia tomentosa - Silver Linden
   
      * Zelkova serrata - Japanese Zelkova
   -Unacceptable trees include:
      * Gleditsia triacanthos - Honeylocust: provides too little shade.
      * Acer platanoides - Norway Maple: roots grow near surface and can uproot
sidewalks.
      
      * Acer saccharinum - Silver Maple: tree has weak branches and is
susceptible to various insects and diseases.
      * Platanus occidentalis - American Sycamore
      * Liquidambar - Sweetgum
      (4)   Buffer details.  A landscaped buffer shall be provided in the last
ten feet of the setback area in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A shrub mass of deciduous and/or evergreen species shall be
planted within the required buffer area to provide for a visual and physical
screen along the entire frontage. Shrubs within the buffer shall primarily
include evergreen species, although deciduous plants may be used provided that
their use does not result in significant visual openings during the winter
season. This landscape mass shall be interspersed with the required ornamental
and evergreen trees to provide for a natural, random and visually interesting
plant scheme. The purpose of the buffer plantings is to define the corridor
visually as a pedestrian way by providing scale and to lessen the impact of a
harsh edge due to development.
         (b)   The location, placement and spacing of plant material shall
conform to diagrams 1, 1a and 2.
         (c)   The selection of plants species shall provide for a variety and
mixture of landscaping. Varieties shall consider susceptibility to disease,
shapes, seasonal display, textures, flowers, and foliage.
         (d)   The plant quantities constituting the buffer shall include:
         *Shrubs averaging 25 per 100 linear feet of frontage.
         *Ornamental trees averaging two per 100 linear feet of frontage.
         *Evergreen trees averaging two per 100 linear feet of frontage.
         *Lawn or groundcover to complete the required 10-foot wide landscape
buffer outside of the required shrub/tree planted area.
         (e)   The planting mass of the mix of shrubs/trees shall be mulched to
a depth of three inches in a continuous bed.
         (f)   Required plantings in the buffer area shall meet the minimum
size requirements as follows:
         *Shrubs: planted size is to be a minimum of 24 inches to 36 inches in
height.
         *Ornamental trees: planted size is to be a minimum of five feet to six
feet in height.
         *Evergreen trees: planted size is to be a minimum of five feet to six
feet in height.
      (5)   Flower pocket details.  Flower pockets shall be provided in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The location and placement of flower pockets shall conform to
diagrams 1, 2 and 3.
         (b)   A minimum of 200 square feet of wildflowers and/or perennials
constitutes one pocket. One pocket shall be provided per 100 linear feet of
frontage with additional pockets provided at driveway crossings.
         (c)   Wildflowers, if used, are to be hardy and native regional
mixtures. Mixture selection shall provide for a blend of species in approximate
equal amounts. Mixtures shall include a variety of colors. The selection of
mixtures should consider the existing soil conditions. The specific blend is
subject to the approval of the Township Engineer or Landscape Architect.
Wildflower pockets shall be mowed once a year. Mowing shall occur in the late
fall while the wildflowers are dormant.
         (d)   Perennials shall be hardy and include either a mix of colors or
single stands of one color. Perennials shall be approved by the Township
Engineer or Landscape Architect.
      (6)   Grass berm details.  Grass berms shall be provided in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Berms shall be limited to the areas indicated in diagrams 1, 1a
and 2.
         (b)   Berms are to be both vertically and horizontally meandering to
achieve a naturalistic landscape by de-emphasizing the linearity of the Route
73 corridor. Requirements for berm design are noted in diagrams 1 and 2. Berms
are not to be continuous for the entire length of the frontage but shall allow
for
breaks as indicated in diagrams 1 and 2. Berms are not to be terminated
abruptly at the ends of the lot lines but are to transition to existing grade
in a naturalistic fashion.
         (c)   Berm design shall not adversely affect natural drainage.
         (d)   Berms at driveway openings should conform to diagram 2.
      (7)   Multi-purpose path details. A continuous sidewalk or multi-purpose
path shall be provided in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A bituminous multi-purpose path shall be provided along both
sides of Route 73.
         (b)   The location and placement of a multi-purpose path shall conform
to diagrams 1,1a and 2.
         (c)   Standard Township construction details for the multi-purpose
path shall be utilized and shall be approved by the Township Engineer.
      (8)   Driveway crossing details.  The following elements and standards
apply to all driveway crossings. Driveway crossing treatment is necessary to
warn both pedestrians and motorists of each other’s presence. Certain elements
contained herein will provide visual cues to motorists that pedestrian crossing
zones are nearby. The arrangement of the design elements is depicted in diagram
2. Additional elements and standards specific to the driveway crossings are set
forth below:
         (a)   Painted crosswalks shall be in provided in accordance with the
following:
            1.   The location and placement of painted crosswalks shall conform
to diagram 2.
            2.   Standard Township construction details for such striping shall
be utilized and shall be approved by the Township Engineer. In the event that
the Township has not adopted such standards, then generally accepted
engineering standards, as set forth in engineering and construction manuals
shall be used as approved by the Township Engineer.
            3.   Painted crosswalks shall be skid-resistant.
         (b)   Handicapped ramps shall be provided in accordance with the
following:
            1.   The location and placement of handicapped ramps shall conform
to diagram 2.
            2.   All multi-purpose paths shall taper down to meet grade at the
intersection with a driveway. Ramps shall be provided in these areas to allow
for full accessibility as per Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) guidelines.
Standard Township construction details for such ramps shall be utilized and
approved by the Township Engineer. In the event that the Township has not
adopted such standards, then generally accepted engineering standards, as set
forth in engineering and construction manuals shall be used as approved by the
Township Engineer.
         (c)   A raised median shall be provided if the driveway opening into
the developed property exceeds two lanes and shall conform to the following:
            1.   A median shall be placed at the centerline of all new
driveways and extend from the intersection with the Route 73 right-of-way to
the 50 foot minimum setback line required for parking and/or interior drives
into new developments.
            2.   The median shall be a four-foot wide brick paver island edged
by a six-inch vertical granite block curb.
            3.   Brick shall be a four-inch by eight-inch rectangular shape and
placed in a herringbone pattern. Brick color shall be a red/charcoal blend.
            4.   The median shall allow for an opening at the crosswalk
locations. Location and placement of crosswalks shall conform to diagram 2.
         (d)   Bollards shall be provided wherever a multi-purpose path engages
a driveway in accordance with diagram 2 and the following:
            1.   An eight-inch square wood timber bollard with chamfered top
and an approximate height of 36 inches, shall be located and placed in
accordance with diagram 2. The bollards shall be placed at the centerline of
the multi-purpose path to preclude entry of vehicles for the purposes of
pedestrian safety.
            2.   A bollard shall be a treated wood bollard of a type that
visually is consistent with the overall corridor aesthetic and image.
            3.   Lighted bollards shall be located and placed in accordance
with diagram 2. The purpose of the bollards is to warn both pedestrians and
motorists of each other’s presence at the crosswalks. Lighted bollards will
provide visual cues to motorists.
            4.   Lighted bollards shall be a minimum 36 inches in height with a
100-watt metal halide or high-pressure sodium lamp. Bollards should provide a
minimum maintained level of 0.5 footcandles in the crosswalk area.
      (9)   Corner treatment details. The following elements are required to be
implemented at intersecting roadways. The purpose of the corner treatment is to
create visually pleasing focal points and to provide uninterrupted transitions
from the sidewalks and multi-purpose paths to the intersection crossings. The
arrangement of the design elements is depicted in diagram 3.
         (a)   Decorative paving shall be in accordance with the following:
            1.   The location and placement of decorative paving shall conform
to diagram 3.
            2.    Decorative paving shall be colored stamped concrete. Color of
concrete is to be a tan/beige blend. Pattern is to be as noted in the body of
diagram 3.
            3.   An eight-inch wide brick paver band shall delineate the
changes in paving pattern. Brick pavers shall be a four-inch by eight-inch
rectangular shape and placed in a soldier course pattern. Brick color shall be
a red/charcoal
blend.
         (b)   An ornamental banner pole and banner shall conform to the
following:
            1.    The location and placement of banner pole shall conform to
diagram 3.
            2.   The banner pole shall be 15 feet high. Banner pole and banner
type is to be selected by the Township.
         (c)   Placement of shrubs shall be in accordance with the following:
            1.   The location and placement of shrubs shall conform to diagram
3. Shrubs are to help define the shape of the pedestrian space and to add
interest.
            2.   Shrubs are to be selected for their ornamental characteristics
such as flowers, bark and fall color to hi-light and provide a backdrop for the
paved pedestrian space.
            3.    Selection of shrubs should take into consideration tolerance
to pollution, and dry, sunny conditions at the intersections. Shrub selection
is to be approved by the Township Engineer or Landscape Architect.
            4.   The planting mass of the shrubs shall be mulched to a depth of
three inches in a continuous bed.
            5.   Shrubs are to be planted at a minimum 24 inches to 36 inches
in height.
         (d)   Placement of groundcover/ perennial plantings shall be in
accordance with the following:
            1.   The location and placement of groundcover/perennials shall
conform to diagram 3.
            2.   Either groundcover or perennials, or a combination of both,
may be used on the ground plane in the defined area.
      
            3.    Groundcover/ perennials shall be hardy. Perennials may
include a mix of colors or single stands of one color. Groundcover/perennials
shall be approved by the Township Engineer or Landscape Architect.
         (e)   Handicapped ramps shall be in accordance with the following:
            1.   The location and placement of ramps shall conform to diagram
3.
            2.   Ramps shall be provided in the crosswalk areas to allow for
full accessibility per Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) guidelines.
Standard Township construction details for such ramps shall be utilized and
shall be approved by the Township Engineer. In the event that the Township has
not adopted such standards, then generally accepted engineering standards, as
set forth in engineering and construction manuals shall be used as approved by
the Township Engineer.
      (10)   The terms and provisions of this subsection shall apply to all
subdivision and site plan applications filed after October 22, 2001.
   (G)   Parking reduction option.
      (1)   Where large scale retail development is proposed adjacent to
existing residential development or properties zoned for residential use and
where at least a minimum 100-foot rear yard setback is required, strict
compliance with the parking regulations set forth in § 152.187(A) may be waived
by the reviewing Board as set forth below. For purposes of this section, large
scale retail development shall be considered any development with a proposed
aggregate gross floor area of 50,000 square feet or more. It being the purpose
of this section to provide an incentive to increase the rear yard setback from
adjoining residential properties by providing for a waiver of strict compliance
with the number of parking spaces as would otherwise be required.
         (a)   For the first additional 50 feet of rear yard setback, the
number of parking spaces may be reduced by five percent of what is otherwise
required in the parking regulations set forth in § 152.187(A).
         (b)   For the next additional 25 feet of rear yard setback, the number
of parking spaces may be reduced an additional five percent of what is required
in the parking regulations set forth in § 152.187(A) .
         (c)   For the next additional 25 feet of rear yard setback, the
required number of parking spaces may be reduced an additional five percent of
what is required in the parking regulations set forth in § 152.187(A) .
      (2)   In no event shall the number of parking spaces be reduced more than
15% from what is required under the parking regulations set forth in § 152.187
(A) .
      (3)   The applicant shall submit a parking analysis and a comparison of
parking counts from other similar uses which demonstrate that any parking space
reduction as provided for in this subsection is adequate to support the
proposed retail use.
      (4)   Nothing contained herein shall alter or alleviate the obligation of
the applicant to comply with any other zoning, setback or buffer requirements
in the ULDO.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6e737ad9260cb71efbcf48a8788b114aa8c3d4c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6883.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6e737ad9260cb71efbcf48a8788b114aa8c3d4c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6885.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6e737ad9260cb71efbcf48a8788b114aa8c3d4c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6887.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6e737ad9260cb71efbcf48a8788b114aa8c3d4c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6889.png]
 
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 19-01, passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord. 20-01,
passed 10-9-01; Am. Ord. 22-01, passed 10-22-01; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-
06; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15; Am. Ord. 391-21, passed 10-12-21; Am. Ord.
455-24, passed 7-8-24)
§ 154.007 LIGHTING AND WIRING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Underground wiring required.
      (1)   All electric, telephone, television, cable, optical, and other
similar utilities, both main and service lines servicing new developments,
shall be provided by underground wiring within easements or dedicated public
rights-of-way, installed in accordance with the prevailing standards and
practices of the utility or other companies providing such services.
      (2)   Lots that abut existing easements or public right-of-way, where
overhead electric or telephone distribution supply lines and service
connections have heretofore been installed, may be supplied with electric and
telephone service from those overhead lines, but the service connections from
the utilities' overhead lines shall be installed underground.
   (B)   Lighting.
      (1)   Non-residential. Outdoor lighting within non-residential areas in
the township shall not unreasonably interfere with the use and enjoyment of
property within the township. This Code encourages the types and uses of
outdoor lights which will conserve energy, preserve the natural environment,
and prevent glare, up-lighting and unnecessary light pollution, while providing
adequate lighting for productivity and security.
      (2)   General lighting requirements.
         (a)   All lighting shall conform with the Illuminating Engineering
Society Handbook, most recent edition, and the American National Practice for
Roadway Lighting (RP-8), approved by the American Standards Institute, recent
edition.
         (b)   All exterior lights shall be designed, located, installed and
directed to prevent objectionable light and glare across property lines and
above a 90 degree, horizontal plane. Lamps shall be recessed in the luminaire
so as to prevent glare.
         (c)   The preferred source of all lighting is metal halide or LHD
lamps and fixtures.
         (d)   Shielding and/or cutoff optics shall be required in all
installations.
         (e)   Searchlights and laser lights used for advertising or
entertainment are not permitted.
         (f)   All lighting shall be shielded to prevent glare for drivers or
pedestrians, light trespass beyond the property line and light above the 90
degree horizontal plane.
         (g)   The maximum illumination at the common property line with
adjacent properties shall not exceed 0.2 footcandle.
         (h)   Emergency lighting by police, fire and rescue and other
authorities is exempt from this Code.
      (3)   Standards for illumination.
         (a)   The average maintained illumination and the average level-to-
minimum point ratio of illumination shall conform with the following:
Classification Average Maintained Illumination  Average Level-to-Minimum
               (footcandles)                    Point Ratio
Classification             Average Maintained         Average Level-to-Minimum
                           Illumination (footcandles) Point Ratio
Interior streets,          0.4                        8:1
residential
Access drives, residential 0.4                        8:1
Access drives, commercial  0.6                        6:1
Parking areas, residential 0.4                        6:1
Parking areas, industrial  0.6                        4:1
Intersections              1.0 to 2.0                 4:1
Sidewalks, residential     0.2                        8.1
Sidewalks, commercial      0.6                        6:1
Sidewalks, industrial      0.6                        6:1
 
         (b)   The maximum mounting height of exterior lighting shall conform
to the following schedule:
 
Building Height (feet) Maximum Fixture Mounting Height (feet)
Up to 24               14
25 to 34               20
35 or greater          25
 
         (c)   In business, office and/or research and industrial areas,
circuits shall be arranged so that at least 50% of all lighting (alternate
luminaires) shall be turned off after business hours, when only lights
necessary for security purposes shall be left on.
         (d)   The average maintained illumination for security purposes shall
be 0.3 footcandles.
         (e)   Provisions shall be made for “cutoff” illumination of loading
docks, entrances and other special areas where greater illumination may be
required. Each special area shall be on a separate circuit which shall be
turned off when the area is not in use.
         (f)   The lighting plan shall be designed by an experienced expert
lighting designer who shall certify that the lighting plan conforms with these
standards. The detailed lighting plan, luminaire manufacturer's details and
illumination diagrams and specifications shall be submitted to the Planning
Board for review.
         (g)   The Planning Board may modify the above requirements where there
is sufficient evidence said requirements are inapplicable, unnecessary or
unreasonable.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 154.008 ADOPTION OF RESIDENTIAL SITE IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   Except as specifically set forth in Title 15, the Residential Site
Improvement Standards adopted by the State of New Jersey under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
40.4 and N.J.A.C. 5:21-1 through 5:21-8 are hereby adopted as the site
improvement standards for residential and non-residential development in the
township. Notwithstanding the foregoing, RSIS do not apply where facilities are
not available, such as public water and sanitary sewer facilities, or where the
proposed development is already served by existing streets. Whether or not
deminimus changes from RSIS should be made by the applicant as part of its site
plan or subdivision plan application shall be determined by the reviewing board
engineer on a case by case basis, with the input of the Township Engineer, and,
if necessary, such deminimus changes should be approved by the Department of
Community Affairs as the reviewing board engineer and the Township Engineer
shall determine.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 154.009 BICYCLE COMPATIBLE ROADWAYS AND BIKEWAYS.
   (A)   All development of lots bordering on the bicycle routes established
pursuant to the Voorhees Township Master Plan adopted by the Planning Board on
September 23, 1998, as the same may be supplemented, modified or clarified from
time to time, shall include the design and construction of such bicycle route
in the site plan or subdivision plan submitted for such development.
   (B)   The construction of bicycle routes as required under this Section
154.80 shall comply with the specifications set forth in N.J.A.C. 5:21-4.18,
and NJDOT Bicycle Compatible Roadway and Bikeways Planning and Design
Guidelines, as the same may be amended, supplemented or superseded.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 154.010 NON-RESIDENTIAL OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING IMPROVEMENT DESIGN
STANDARDS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Performance. All sites within the township which are subject to the
provisions of the Code of Voorhees Township shall provide adequate parking
improvements including but not limited to access ways, driveways, drive aisles,
loading areas, parking bays and pedestrian walkways to ensure the safe and
efficient circulation of vehicles and pedestrians both on and off-site.
      (2)   Parking location. All required off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be located on the same lot or premises as the use served. No
parking facility shall be permitted as a primary use on a lot.
      (3)   Fire lane provision. The provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:5A-1 et seq.
shall apply.
      (4)   Parking for the disabled. The provisions of N.J.A.C. 17:19A-4.4 and
the Americans with Disabilities Act shall apply to all parking areas.
      (5)   Combined parking requirements. Where a permitted use of land
contains more than one parking use category, the parking requirement shall be
the sum of the individual uses computed separately in accordance with this
Article. The reviewing board may permit the use of shared parking areas by
individual users up to a maximum of 20% of the total parking requirement for
land uses of complementary peak parking need.
      6.   Substitution of open space. An applicant may request a substitution
of up to a maximum of 20% of the required number of parking spaces, provided
that the following regulations are met:
         (a)   The required number of parking spaces is 20 or greater.
         (b)   The open space area to be substituted in lieu of parking spaces
shall be designated both as open space and as future reserved parking. In no
instance shall the future reserved parking area be included in the calculation
used to determine compliance with the township open space provisions.
         (c)   The applicant shall submit a deed restriction, covenant or other
suitable instrument which grants to the Planning Board or Zoning Board the
right to require, within five years of the final site plan approval, the
present or future owner of record to install all or part of the future reserved
parking as designated on the approved plan. The appropriate Board may, upon the
receipt of a finding of inadequate parking from the Zoning Officer, resolve to
require the installation of all or part of the future reserved parking if, in
its opinion, the health, safety and general welfare of the pubic shall be
promoted.
         (d)   An adequate performance guaranty shall be posted, not to exceed
in duration five years from the date of final site plan approval, equal to 120%
of the estimated cost of the installation of the future reserved parking as
determined by the township or Board Engineer.
         (e)   The deed restriction, covenant or similar instrument and the
performance guaranty shall be subject to the approval of the township or Board
Solicitor.
   (B)   Design standards. The following regulations shall apply to all non-
residential off-street parking areas, unless the Planning Board or Zoning
Board, after considering testimony and evidence submitted or presented by the
applicant waives strict compliance with the requirements of this §
154.010(B) in order to promote flexibility in parking area design.
      (1)   Parking space dimensions. The following minimum dimensions for
parking spaces shall apply:
         (a)   Commercial, office, industrial and government uses - nine feet
wide by 18 feet deep with a clear two feet overhang.
         (b)   Parallel spaces for any use - nine feet by 22 feet wide.
      (2)   Parking aisle and drive dimensions. The following minimum
dimensions for parking aisles and drives shall apply:
   AISLES
Angle of Parking Spaces (degrees)  One-Way Aisle (feet) Two-Way Aisle  (feet)
90                                 22                   24
60                                 18                   20
45                                 15                   20
Parallel                           12                   18
DRIVES
Drive Type                         One-Way Drive        Two-Way Drive
Entrance drive, on roads with less 20                   25
than 39 mph speed limit
Entrance drive, on roads with      22                   30
greater than 39 mph speed limit
Internal collector                 18                   25
Internal collector, with fire lane 25                   30
      (3)   Entrance drives. Off-street parking areas shall be designed to
eliminate the maneuvering of vehicles within entrance drives. The length of
entrance drive free of maneuvering shall conform to the following schedule
(measured from the right-of-way line):
 
Total Number of Parking Spaces Length of Maneuver-Free Drive (feet)
Less than 39                   20
40 to 99                       40
100 to 250                     60
Greater than 250               60, plus 20 for each additional 500 spaces or
                               part thereof
      (4)   Entrance drive intersections. The intersection of any entrance
drive and a public street shall be located as to permit the safe flow of
vehicles to and from the lot or premises in a manner safe and shall conform to
the following minimum distances:
 
Intersection                                            Minimum Distance (feet)
Entrance drive to entrance drives, less than 150 feet   60
street frontage (measured from center lines)
Entrance drive to entrance drive, greater than 150 feet 100
street frontage (measured from center lines)
Entrance drive to intersecting rights-of-way, less than
150 feet frontage (measured from center line to rights- 35
of-way)
Entrance drive to intersecting rights-of-way, greater
than 150 frontage (measured from center line to rights- 75
of-way)
 
      (5)   Ingress and egress to parking areas. Access to parking areas from
pubic streets shall be limited to one per street frontage up to a maximum of
two per site, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Two entrance drives on one public street shall be permitted for
lots or premises with frontage in excess of 300 feet, up to a maximum of three
per site.
         (b)   Gasoline service stations shall be permitted two entrance drives
on one pubic street, up to a maximum of three per site, provided that the
center lines of the two entrance drives on one street frontage are not less
than 60 feet apart.
      (6)   Internal collector. An internal collector drive shall be provided
for all parking areas in excess of 250 spaces. No parking space shall have
direct ingress and egress to an internal collector drive. The intersection of
any internal collector drive and drive aisle shall be at ninety 90 degrees,
unless, because of unusual topography or lot geometry, a right angle would
impede the efficient circulation of vehicles, but in no case shall the
intersection be less than 60 degrees.
      (7)   Landscaping, loading areas. All loading areas shall be landscaped
and screened sufficiently to obscure the view of the loading  platform or other
loading facility from any pubic street, residential use or zone and the front
yards of adjacent commercial or industrial use. Such screening may consist of
fencing or walls, and shall be in conformance with the landscaping requirements
of the Township Code.
      (8)   Landscaping, parking areas. Each on-site parking facility shall be
designed to minimize the removal of any tree in excess of five inches in
caliper. Each facility shall have a minimum of 200 square feet of contiguous
landscaped area for each 30 spaces or portion thereof consisting of shrubs with
a mature height of not more than three feet and deciduous trees with branches
not less than seven feet in height, but in no event shall there be less than
the area contained in the required traffic islands. Such space shall be
distributed throughout the parking areas in order to visually break the view of
long rows of parked cars in a manner not impairing sight triangles. Parking
areas in excess of 250 parking spaces shall have landscaping berms a minimum of
two feet in height above the parking area grade between any public street and
any access way, driveway, drive aisle, internal collector drive, loading or
parking areas.
      (9)   Lighting. All parking and loading facilities shall be lighted in
accordance with the lighting provisions of the Township Ordinance. Adequate
provision must also be made to shield residential uses from the headlight glare
of motor vehicles.
      (10)   Loading area requirements. Every commercial and industrial use, or
combination thereof, containing at least 5,000 gross square feet of floor area
shall provide and permanently maintain adequate space for the standing, loading
and unloading or material or merchandise. The loading area shall be so
designated on the site plan and shall not be used or any other purpose. The
minimum dimensions of the loading area shall not be less than 12 feet wide by
35 feet deep with a height clearance of 14 feet. One such loading area shall be
required for each 20,000 gross square feet of floor area or part thereof.
      (11)   Shopping cart uses. Parking areas for commercial uses which
utilize shopping carts for the carrying of goods, including but not limited to
supermarkets, pharmacies, home centers, department stores and discount centers,
shall provide areas for the collection of such shopping carts. Collection
points shall be evenly dispersed throughout the parking area which is designed
to serve the commercial use which utilizes shopping carts for the carrying of
goods. The collection points shall be curbed to delineate and separate the
parking area from the collected shopping carts and shall be so designed as to
not impede the vehicular or pedestrian circulation pattern. Collection points
shall have a minimum capacity of 20 shopping carts. Collection points shall be
so designed by no more than one sign per area with two faces, pole-mounted.
      (12)   Surfacing and curbing. All parking and loading areas shall be
paved as required by the Township or Board Engineer. All access ways,
driveways, drive aisles, loading areas and parking bays or other parking
facilities shall be curbed with a formed concrete curb of a type and
composition approved by the Township or Board Engineer.
      (13)   Traffic islands. Traffic islands shall be provided to separate
each parking area of double stacked parking rows from any internal collector
drive. The minimum width of the traffic island shall be eight feet. For parking
areas in excess of 250 cars, one traffic island, a minimum width of 10 feet,
separating the two rows of parking in one parking bay, shall be provided for
each four rows in an alternating pattern. Each traffic island shall be
landscaped in accordance with township regulations.
      (14)   Trash enclosures.
         (a)   Trash and recycling shall be enclosed on three sides by masonry
walls not less than six feet nor more than eight feet in height and must be
compatible with the architectural scheme of the development.
         (b)   The enclosure gates shall be constructed of solid welded steel
panels.
         (c)   Landscaping consisting of six foot high evergreen trees shall be
installed to screen the perimeter of the masonry walls.
         (d)   Trash and recycling pickup shall only be permitted between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (15)   Trash pickup. All parking areas shall make adequate provision for
the location of trash receptacles and their enclosures and the disposal of
trash generated by on-site uses in a manner that does not impede the free flow
of vehicular traffic on- or off-site. Adequate provision shall be made for the
turning movements of trash pickup vehicles.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 24-00, passed 9-11-00)
§ 154.011 OPEN SPACE BUY DOWN.
   (A)   Maximum impervious cover requirements for each Zoning District are
described in
Chapter 152. The maximums were created to address stormwater management,
aesthetic, landscaping/buffering, and passive open space objectives stated in
the municipal master plan. The goals and objectives of the master plan can be
furthered by allowing for an open space buy-down program whereby a contribution
is made to the township by the developer toward the purchase and preservation
in perpetuity of passive open space in Voorhees Township. The contribution is
made in lieu of meeting a portion of their open space requirement on the site
to be developed. The monies contributed are then applied toward the
preservation and maintenance of passive open space at higher priority locations
in the township.
   (B)   The maximum impervious cover of commercial and industrial sites may be
increased from the permitted 60% to an adjusted maximum of 75% subject to
township requirements for landscaping, buffering, setbacks and stormwater
management as provided in Chapter 152 and 154, and federal and state
regulations involving freshwater wetlands and stream encroachment, by the
developer paying a cash contribution of $2.00 per each additional square foot
of space on site which is treated with an impervious cover. The contribution
shall be submitted to the township for deposit into an account dedicated to
township passive open space preservation and maintenance.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 154.012 (RESERVED).
§ 154.013 RECREATIONAL IMPACT FEES.
   (A)   Residential. The applicant shall provide the following facilities on-
site.
Recreational Facilities Number/Unit of Population
Recreational Facilities      Number/Unit of Population
Basketball/Hockey Courts     1 per 1,000
Tennis                       1 per 1,000
Baseball/Softball             
Youth                        1 per 3,000
Adult                        1 per 3,000
Football/Soccer              1 per 2,000
Multicourt                   1 per 2,000
Tot-lot                      1 per 200
                             (15% of total population
Advanced Play                1 per 400
                             (30% of total population)
Picnic Areas                 1 per 5,000
Trails
Bikeways
                             
                            1 per 6-foot wide bituminous trail per 300 persons
                             
Jogging/Fitness Trails       1 mile per 1,000 people. These should be
                            integrated into parks, active recreation areas
                            and, where appropriate, passive recreation areas
                             
                            1 mile per 3,000 persons
 
Open Space Trails
General Use Fields           1 per 6,000
Portable Sanitary Facilities 1 per every 4 facilities (tot- lots and advanced
                             play areas shall be calculated at 50%)
In lieu of the above the applicant may contribute a sum equal to .5% of the
assessed value of units to township recreation/open space fund.
 
   (B)   Non-residential.  
      (1)   The applicant must provide for community and recreation uses. This
includes but is not limited to public gathering areas and facilities for public
activities which are generated or could be by the uses being developed. In
addition to providing spaces for these activities, ways and means shall be
provided for pedestrian linkages between these uses and the public areas.
Acceptable recreation and open space facilities may include but are not limited
to jogging and biking paths, interpretive trails, sidewalks, multi-purpose
fields, ampitheaters, gazebos, seating areas and plaza.
      (2)   Design and location of these facilities shall be consistent with
the overall development. In lieu thereof, the applicant may contribute a sum
equal to $2.00 per square foot of the gross floor area for th proposed square
footage in the development that is the subject of the application.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 154.014 (RESERVED).
§ 154.015 DESIGN CONTROLS.
   (A)   Route 73.
      (1)   Building design.  
         (a)   All buildings in a development approved as a single project
shall be compatible in design as to facade material, proportionality of
features, color and texture.
         (b)   There shall be an apparent change in features, material, color
and texture for each separate user or for every 40 feet of the primary facade.
         (c)   The material and design elements used on the front or primary
facade shall be replicated on any side or rear elevation visible to the general
public from rights-of-way or adjacent properties.
         (d)   No more than two-thirds of the building shall be at the same
setback line and the offset shall be at least equal to 10% of the average depth
of the building and there shall be two separate breaks for every 100 feet of
facade length.
         (e)   The aforementioned design regulations shall apply to all non-
residential zones.
      (2)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this division , the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ARCADE. A continuous passageway parallel to and open to a street, open
space, or building, usually covered by a canopy or permanent roofing, and
accessible and open to the public.
         BAY. A regularly repeated unit on a building elevation defined by
columns, pilasters, or other vertical elements, or defined by a given number of
windows or openings.
         BELT (also STRING COURSE or HORIZONTAL COURSE). A projecting
horizontal band on an exterior wall marking the separation between floors or
levels.
         BELEVEDERE. From the Latin "beautiful view," referring to an
architectural structure such as a gazebo, from which one can gaze onto a
particular view.
         BLANK WALL. An exterior building wall with no openings and generally
constructed of a single material, uniform texture, and on a single plane.
         BUFFER. An area within a property or site; generally adjacent to and
parallel with the property line, either consisting of existing natural
vegetation or created by the use of trees, shrubs,  berms, and/or fences, and
designed to limit views and sounds from the development tract to adjacent
properties and vice versa.
         COLUMN. A vertical pillar or shaft, usually structural.
         CORNICE. The top part of an entablature, usually molding and
projecting.
         CUPOLA. A small roof tower, usually rising from the roof ridge.
         EAVES. The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a
building.
         ELEVATION. An exterior facade of a structure, or its head-on view, or
representation drawn with no vanishing point, and used primarily for
construction.
         FACADE. A building face or wall.
         FENESTRATION. Window and other openings on a building facade.
         GABLE. The part of the end wall of a building between the eaves and a
pitched or gambrel roof.
         HARMONY. The design, arrangement, and location of buildings or other
created or natural elements of the urban environment that are sufficiently
consistent in scale, character, and siting with other buildings to avoid abrupt
differences.
         LINTEL. A horizontal beam over an opening in a masonry wall, either
structural or decorative.
         OVERHANG. The part of a roof or wall that extends beyond the facade of
a lower wall.
         PARAPET.  The extension of the main walls of a building above the roof
level. Parapet walls are often used to shield mechanical equipment and vents.
         PERGOLA.  A structure usually consisting of parallel colonnades
supporting an open roof of girders and cross rafters, something like an
advanced trellis or arbor.
         PILASTER. A column partially embedded in a wall, usually non-
structural.
         PITCH. The angle of slope of a roof or berm.
         PORCH. A roofed open area, which may be screened, usually attached to
or part of and with direct access to or from a building.
         PORTICO.  An open sided structure attached to a building sheltering an
entrance or serving as a semi-enclosed space.
      (3)   General requirements and standards.
         (a)   The Zoning Map adopted on April 12, 1999 as Ordinance No. 919-
99, and any and all amendments thereto adopted from time to time by the
Township Committee as required by law, is hereby incorporated herein, and made
a part of this Unified Land Development Ordinance (ULDO), as if same were fully
set forth herein. In the event of any conflict between this ULDO and the Zoning
Map or between the Zoning Map and any ordinance duly adopted as required by law
after the effective date of this ULDO, the ULDO or such ordinance, as the case
may be, shall govern and control.
         (b)   The Architectural and Design Standards set forth herein shall
apply to all parcels, hereafter developed or redeveloped, with access to Route
73.
      (4)   Positioning of development.
         (a)   Building layout shall be constructed in a manner to position at
least 50% of the building facade along the Route 73 Corridor required front
yard building setback.
         (b)   All buildings on corner lots within all zoning districts along
the Route 73 right-of-way should be placed proximate to the intersection of the
front yard setback lines.
         (c)   Parking may not encompass more than 50% of the lot frontage
within 170 feet of the Route 73 right-of-way.
         (d)   Developments with multiple buildings shall be maintained
positioning the buildings along Route 73 frontage and provide consistent
setback depth as set forth herein.
         (e)   All parking lot or parking areas located along the highway
buffer must be screened by a densely planted evergreen hedge with plants three
feet in height at the time of planting or a solid masonry wall screen that
matches the facade of the building.
      (5)   Service areas and loading docks.
         (a)   Shrub, evergreen trees and walls that match the facade shall be
used to screen loading docks from the public view. Loading docks shall be
positioned in a manner that makes them less visible from the public view.
Loading docks shall not be visible from the road. Loading docks shall be
consistent in overall appearance with the building. Whenever possible, loading
of merchandise should occur through the entrance or exit doors to avoid the
construction of loading docks.
         (b)   Trash receptacles and refuse areas shall meet the setback
requirements for parking lots and structures. All trash receptacles and refuse
areas shall be enclosed with solid walls that match the facade of the building
or buildings it serves. Gates and doors that provide access shall compliment
the color scheme of the walls. No chain-link doors are permitted. The doors
shall be constructed of a solid material like metal or wood. All wall screening
refuse areas shall be eight feet in height. Landscaping shall be utilized to
soften the appearance of any such wall.
      (6)   Parking areas.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specified herein, all non-residential off-
street parking shall be governed by the provisions of §
154.010.
         (b)   Parking shall not occupy more than 50% of the frontage of any
parcel and shall be screened to create a defined edge.
         (c)   Ten percent of the area within the parking area (excluding
buffers and setbacks) shall be landscaped with evergreen and deciduous trees.
         (d)   For every ten parking spaces, 1.5 trees with a minimum caliper
of three inches shall be required.
         (e)   To the greatest extent possible, all existing trees and
vegetation shall be maintained.
         (f)   All parking areas that abut Route 73 and/or any other local or
county roads shall be screened by a dense evergreen hedge at least three feet
in height at the time of planting along the entire length of the parking area.
Plants shall be selected to achieve a minimum height of five feet at maturity.
         (g)   No temporary structure may be erected within a parking area
without a zoning permit which shall review placement, circulation and access. A
sketch showing necessary details and dimensions shall be required.
      (7)   Pedestrian and bicycle facilities.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specified herein, all pedestrian and bicycle
facilities shall be governed by the provisions of §
154.009.
         (b)   Pedestrian walkways to building entry(s) shall be prominent,
clearly and readily identifiable.
         (c)   A clear and direct pedestrian linkage from parking areas to
building entry(s) is required.
         (d)   Pedestrian walkways shall be physically separated from vehicular
areas to insure safety at crossings and driveways.
         (e)   Pathways and walkways shall be used to link plazas and gardens
and access to all buildings.
         (f)   The use of a variety of enriched textures and paving surfaces
for walking surfaces shall be required.
         (g)   Bicycle racks or lockers shall be provided at all shopping and
office complexes.
         (h)   Textured pedestrian crosswalks shall be provided from parking
areas to all buildings.
      (8)   Lighting.
         (a)   Lighting fixtures for properties along the Route 73 Corridor
shall utilize Hadco Hagerstown fixtures or approved fixtures of similar style.
Poles and bollards shall utilize black decorative lamp poles. The pole type
shall be Hadco Classic I or approval equal. Concrete foundation pads shall not
exceed six inches in height above grade where used to mount the light poles.
         (b)   Along all streets, parking areas, sidewalks and walkways, 12-
foot lampposts shall be provided at regular intervals. In parking lot areas,
the lampposts may be increased to 16 feet. Use of minimum wattage is
recommended to avoid light pollution while still achieving visibility. A 0.9
foot-candle maximum is allowed in parking areas in walkways for non-residential
uses. A maximum 0.6 to 0.7 foot-candles measured at the property line is
allowed in areas that abut residential zones. House side shields shall be
required to reduce lighting spillover. At access drives and at driveway
intersections, stronger illumination coverage should be provided for increased
visibility and safety.
         (c)   Mounted light fixtures on buildings shall be permitted in order
to add to the architectural quality of the building. Such fixtures shall not
extend above the roofline and shall be directed downward. Fixture types shall
be compatible with the architectural style and appearance of the building.
         (d)   Within the Route 73 buffer area, approved lighting fixtures and
other street fixtures should be consistently used.
      (9)   Building height/roofing.
         (a)   If any portion of the building wall exceeds 100 linear feet, the
building wall shall contain roofline offsets. Flat roofs are discouraged but
are permitted if they are enclosed with a continuous parapet. All flat roofs
shall have an articulated cornice line. A building with a pitched roof is
preferred. Permitted roof materials for pitched roofs include: cedar wood
shingles; dimensioned asphalt; composite tile; and standing seam copper or
anodized aluminum.
         (b)   Special architectural features such as clock towers, bell
towers, cupolas and ornamental portions of parapet walls may exceed the height
limit by up to ten feet, but shall not encompass more than 10% of the building
facade wall. Signage shall not be included within the additional height.
      (10)   Fenestration/doors.
         (a)   Windows, doors display windows, or arcades shall make up at
least 50% of building walls that face streets. Windows shall be architecturally
attuned with the style, materials, color and details of the building. Upper
story windows shall be vertically aligned with windows and doors on the ground
level.
         (b)   Only one solid, blank windowless wall or service area is
permitted per building. When the construction of a blank wall is absolutely
necessary, the facade shall be articulated with false windows, architecturally
articulated masonry, or by recessed display window cases.
         (c)   All entrances and doors to a building shall be defined and
articulated by architectural elements such as lintels, pediments, pilasters,
columns, porticos, porches, or overhangs. Any such features shall be compatible
to the style and color of the building as a whole.
      (11)   Building colors and materials.
         (a)   Wherever possible, harmonization of colors, consistent with the
Corridor's design is preferred. Design features on buildings and the color of
signage shall be consistent and compatible.
         (b)   Buildings shall be constructed of full brick, natural stone,
stucco, wood or a combination of these materials. Stucco shall have a smooth
finish and shall contain some color or pigment. Earth tone colors and white
tones shall be used. Colors shall be chosen to be compatible and harmonious.
Accent colors may be used to highlight architectural elements.
         (c)   Buildings with multiple storefronts shall be unified through the
use of architectural common materials, colors and details.
      (12)   Trim/decorative elements. All buildings shall be trimmed all
around with eaves or cornices. Decorative elements such as pergolas, cupolas
and belvederes may be used to give extra architectural features to structures.
      (13)   Building style. Building styles shall not utilize long
uninterrupted, blank walls. Building offsets, including projections, recesses,
and changes in floor elevation shall be used to add variety.
      (14)   Detention basins.
         (a)   Detention basins and other storm management drainage
improvements shall be screened with planting and berms. Such improvements shall
be situated in the least visible location in keeping with the natural
topography and when possible, to expand the buffers that separate residential
and non-residential uses. Detention basins shall not be included in the
required buffer area. Detention basin embankments and the basin itself shall be
extensively landscaped with wet site tolerant plant materials.
         (b)   The detention facility shall be sized to accommodate the future
growth of vegetation planted in the basin. Retention basins shall be designed
as a site feature and suitably sited and landscaped. Instead of peripheral
fencing, retention/detention basin edges shall be contoured and shaped to form
low angles at the primary water line, insuring greater pedestrian safety. If
peripheral fencing is required, open fences and gates (conforming to the
minimum requirements of the Uniform Construction Code) made of maintenance free
materials, such as cast aluminum, in dark or earth tone colors, shall be used
as appropriate. Woven wire (chainlink), stockade fences or solid fences shall
be prohibited.
(Ord. 42-04, passed 3-8-04; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 110-07,
passed 7-9-07; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 154.016 STREAM BUFFER CONSERVATION ZONE.
   (A)   Purpose. In recognition of the fact that natural features contribute
to the welfare of residents, the following regulations have been enacted to
provide reasonable controls governing the restoration, conservation,
disturbance, and management of existing stream buffers for all perennial and
intermittent streams and all lakes and ponds in the municipality by
establishing designated Stream Buffer Conservation Zones.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section the following definitions shall
apply:
         INTERMITTENT STREAM. A stream with a drainage area of 50 acres or
greater.
         PERENNIAL STREAM. A stream that flows continuously throughout the year
in most years.
         STREAM. A natural watercourse containing flowing water for at least
part of the year.
      (2)   In addition, the specific purposes and intent of this section are
to:
         (a)   Reduce the amount of nutrients, sediment, organic matter
pesticides, and other harmful substances that reach watercourses, wetlands,
subsurface, and surface water bodies by using scientifically-proven processes
including filtration, deposition, absorption, adsorption, plant uptake,
biodegradation, denitrification and by improving infiltration, encouraging
sheet flow, and stabilizing concentrated flows.
         (b)   Improve and maintain the safety, reliability and adequacy of the
water supply for domestic, agricultural, commercial, industrial and
recreational uses along with sustaining diverse populations of aquatic flora
and fauna.
         (c)   Regulate the land use, siting and engineering of all development
to be consistent with the intent and objectives of this section, accepted
conservation practices, and to work within the carrying capacity of existing
natural resources.
         (d)   Assist in the implementation of pertinent state laws concerning
erosion and sediment control practices.
         (e)   Conserve the natural features important to land and water
resources (e.g., headwater areas, groundwater recharge zones, floodway,
floodplain, springs, streams, wetlands, woodlands, prime wildlife habitats) and
other features constituting high recreational value or containing amenities
that exist on developed and undeveloped land.
         (f)   Work with floodplain, steep slope, and other ordinances that
regulate environmentally sensitive areas to minimize hazards to life, property,
and stream features.
         (g)   Conserve natural, scenic, and recreation areas within and
adjacent to stream areas for the community's benefit.
   (B)   Definitions, establishment, and width determination of the Stream
Buffer Conservation Zone.
      (1)   Definition.
         STREAM BUFFER CONSERVATION ZONE. Areas surrounding municipally
designated surface water bodies, including creeks, lakes and intermittent
watercourses that intercept surface water runoff, wastewater, subsurface flow,
and/or deep groundwater flows from upland sources and function to remove or
buffer the effects of associated nutrients,  sediment, organic matter,
pesticides, or other pollutants prior to entry into surface waters. This area
may also provide wildlife habitat, control water temperature, attenuate flood
flow, and provide opportunities for passive recreation. This buffer area may or
may not contain trees and other native vegetation at the time of ordinance
enactment.
      (2)   Establishment.
         (a)   The establishment of the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone applies
to the following areas which are identified on the municipal Stream Buffer Map:
            1.   Lands adjacent to municipally designated streams within the
municipality.
            2.   Lands adjacent to municipally designated intermittent water
courses within the municipality.
            3.   Lands at the margins of municipally designated lakes.
         (b)   The measurement of the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone shall
extend a minimum of 75 feet from each defined edge of an identified watercourse
or surface water body at bankfull flow or level, or shall equal the extent of
the 100-year floodplain, whichever is greater. The District will consist of two
distinct zones designated as:
            1.   Zone One. This zone will begin at each edge of an identified
waterway (which can include wetlands and intermittent watercourses) and occupy
a margin of land with a minimum width of 25 feet measured horizontally on a
line perpendicular to the edge of water at bankfull flow.
               a.   Where steep slopes (in excess of 25%) are located within 25
feet of a municipally designated watercourse, Zone One shall extend the entire
distance of this sloped area. If the distance of this sloped area is greater
than 75 feet, there will be no requirement for the establishment of Zone Two.
If the distance is less than 75 feet, the width of Zone Two will be adjusted so
that the total buffer width (Zone One and Zone Two) will be 75 feet maximum.
            2.   Zone Two. This zone will begin at the outer edge of Zone One
and occupy a minimum width of 50 feet in addition to Zone One.
               a.   Where the 100-year floodplain extends greater than 75 feet
from the waterway, Zone One shall remain a minimum of 25 feet wide, and Zone
Two shall extend from the outer edge of Zone One to the outer edge of the 100-
year floodplain.
               b.   Width determination. The developer, applicant, or
designated representative shall be responsible for the initial width
determination of the stream buffer and identifying this area on any plan that
is submitted to the municipality for subdivision, land development, or other
improvements that require plan submissions or permits. This initial
determination shall be subject to review and approval by the municipal
engineer, governing body, or its appointed representative.
   (C)   Uses permitted in the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone. The following
uses are permitted, either by right or after review and approval by the
municipality in the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone. However, within any
buffer, no construction, development, use, activity, or encroachment shall be
permitted unless the activity is described in the Stream Buffer Management
Plan, as outlined in division (H) below.
      (1)   Zone One.
         (a)   Uses permitted by right. Open space uses that are primarily
passive in character shall be permitted to extend into the area defined as Zone
One, including:
            1.   Wildlife sanctuaries, nature preserves, forest preserves,
fishing areas, passive areas of public and private parklands, and reforestation
in compliance with the guidelines of the Stream Buffer Management Plan.
            2.   Streambank stabilization in compliance with the guidelines of
the Stream Buffer Management Plan.
         (b)   Uses requiring municipal review and approval. Buffer crossings
by farm vehicles and livestock, recreational trails, roads, railroads,
centralized sewer and/ or water lines, and public utility transmission lines,
and public utility transmission lines provided that any disturbance is offset
by buffer improvements identified in the Stream Buffer Management Plan.
      (2)   Zone Two.
         (a)   Uses permitted by right. The following uses which are primarily
passive in character, shall be permitted by right to extend into the area
defined as Zone Two:
            1.   Open space uses including wildlife sanctuaries, nature
preserves, forest preserves, passive areas of public and private parklands, and
recreational trails.
            2.   Reforestation in compliance with the guidelines of the Stream
Buffer Management Plan.
            3.   Minimum required front, side, and rear yards on private lots,
provided that no yard may extend into Zone Two more than half the distance
between the outer boundaries of Zone One and Zone Two.
            4.   Agricultural uses existing at the time of adoption of this
section.
         (b)   Uses requiring municipal review and approval.
            1.   New agricultural uses.
            2.   Buffer crossings by farm vehicles and livestock, roads,
railroads, centralized sewer and/or water lines, and public utility
transmission lines provided that any disturbance is at a minimum, offset by
buffer improvements identified in the Stream Buffer Management Plan.
            3.   Centralized sewer and/or water lines and public utility
transmission lines running along the buffer, provided that any disturbance is,
at a minimum, offset by buffer improvements identified in the Stream Buffer
Management Plan. These lines shall be located as far from Zone One as
practical.
            4.   Selective cutting of trees when removal is consistent with
approved standards in the Stream Buffer Management Plan.
            5.   Areas such as camps, campgrounds, picnic areas and golf
courses. Active recreation areas such as ballfields, playgrounds, and courts
provided these uses are designed in a manner that will not permit concentrated
flow.
            6.   Naturalized stormwater basins in compliance with the
guidelines in the Stream Buffer Management Plan. The entire basin shall be
located a minimum of 50 feet from the defined edge of identified watercourses.
   (D)   Uses specifically prohibited in the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone.
Any use or activity not authorized within division (C) above shall be
prohibited within the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone. By way of example, the
following activities and facilities are specifically prohibited:
      (1)   Clear-cutting of trees and other vegetation.
      (2)   Selective cutting of trees and/or the clearing of other vegetation
within Zone One, except where such clearing is necessary to prepare land for a
use permitted under division (C)(1) above and where the effects of these
actions are mitigated by revegetation, as specified under division (H) below.
      (3)   Selective cutting of trees and/or the clearing of other vegetation
within Zone Two, except where such clearing is necessary to prepare land for a
use permitted by division (C)(2) above and where the effects of these actions
are mitigated by revegetation, as specified under division (H) below.
      (4)   Removal of trees in excess of selective cutting, except where such
removal is necessary as a means to eliminate dead, diseased, or hazardous tree
stands that jeopardize public safety or as part of a reforestation project,
provided that the removal is in compliance with a Stream Buffer Management Plan
approved by the municipal engineer, governing body, or its appointed
representative.
      (5)   Removal or disturbance of vegetation in a manner that is
inconsistent with erosion control and buffer protection.
      (6)   Storage of any hazardous or noxious materials.
      (7)   Use of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, and/or other chemicals
in excess of prescribed industry standards or the recommendations of the Camden
County Conservation District.
      (8)   Roads or driveways, except where permitted as buffer crossings in
compliance with division (C)(1)(a)2. or (C)(2)(b)2. above.
      (9)   Motor or wheeled vehicle traffic in any area not designed to
accommodate adequately the type and volume.
      (10)   Parking lots.
      (11)   Any type of permanent structure, including fences, except
structures needed for a use permitted in division (C) above.
      (12)   Subsurface sewage disposal areas.
      (13)   Sod farming.
   (E)   Nonconforming structures and uses in the Stream Buffer Conservation
Zone.
      (1)   Existing nonconforming structures or uses within Zones One or Two
that are not permitted under division (C) above may be continued but shall not
have the existing building footprint or uses expanded or enlarged.
      (2)   Discontinued nonconforming uses may be resumed any time within one
year from such discontinuance but not thereafter when showing clear indications
of abandonment. No change or resumption shall be permitted that is more
detrimental to the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone, as measured against the
intent and objectives under division (A) above, than the existing or former
nonconforming use.
      (3)   This one-year time frame shall not apply to agricultural uses which
are following prescribed best management practices for crop rotation.
   (F)   Boundary interpretation and appeals procedure.
      (1)   When a landowner or applicant disputes the Zone (One or Two)
boundaries of the stream buffer or the defined edge of a watercourse, surface
water body, the landowner or applicant shall submit evidence to the
municipality that describes the boundary, presents the landowner or applicant's
proposed boundary, and presents all justification for the proposed boundary
change.
      (2)   The municipal engineer, governing body or appointed representative
shall evaluate all material submitted and shall make a written determination
within 45 days, a copy of which shall be submitted to the Voorhees Township
Committee and Planning Board, and landowner or applicant.
      (3)   Any party aggrieved by any such determination or other decision or
determination under this section may appeal to the Voorhees Township Committee
under the provisions this section. The party contesting the location of the
district boundary shall have the burden of proof in case of any such appeal.
   (G)   Inspection of Stream Buffer Conservation Zone.
      (1)   Lands within or adjacent to an identified Stream Buffer
Conservation Zone will be inspected by the municipal representative when:
         (a)   A subdivision or land development plan is submitted.
         (b)   (A building permit is requested.)
         (c)   A change or resumption of nonconforming use is proposed.
      (2)   The district may also be inspected periodically by the municipal
representatives for compliance with an approved restoration plan, excessive or
potentially problematic erosion or at any time when the presence of an
unauthorized activity or structure is brought to the attention of municipal
officials.
   (H)   Management of the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone.
      (1)   Stream Buffer Management Plan. Within any municipally identified
buffer area, no construction, development, use, activity, or encroachment shall
be permitted unless the effects of such development are accompanied by
implementation of an approved Stream Buffer Management Plan, as specified
within the Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance.
      (2)   The landowner or developer shall submit to the municipal engineer,
governing body, or its appointed representative, a Stream Buffer Management
Plan prepared by a landscape architect, professional engineer or other
qualified professional which fully evaluates the effects of any proposed uses
on the Stream Buffer Conservation Zone. The Stream Buffer Management Plan shall
identify the existing conditions (vegetation, 100-year floodplain, soils,
slopes, etc.), all proposed activities, and all proposed management techniques,
including any measures necessary to offset disturbances to the Stream Buffer
Conservation Zone. The plan shall be approved by the municipal engineer,
governing body, or appointed representative as part of the subdivision and land
development process.
   (I)   Vegetation selection. To function properly, dominant vegetation in the
Stream Buffer Management Plan shall be selected from a list of plants most
suited to the stream buffer. Plants not included on the lists may be permitted
by the municipal engineer, governing body, or its appointed representative when
evidence is provided from qualified sources certifying their suitability. The
municipality may require species suitability to be verified by qualified
experts in the Camden County Conservation District, Natural Resources
Conservation Service, NJ Department of Environmental Protection, the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service, or state and federal forest agencies.
      (1)   In Zone One, dominant vegetation shall be composed of a variety of
native stream tree, shrub species, tall grasses and appropriate plantings
necessary for streambank stabilization.
      (2)   In Zone Two, dominant vegetation shall be composed of stream trees
and shrubs, with an emphasis on native species and appropriate plantings
necessary to stabilize the soil.
      (3)   Disturbed areas shall be revegetated with stream buffer plants, in
compliance with an approved Stream Buffer Management Plan. Areas that cannot be
revegetated shall be restored in compliance with an approved Stream Buffer
Management Plan.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 110-07, passed 7-9-07)
§ 154.017 STORMWATER CONTROL.
   (A)   Scope and purpose.
      (1)   Policy statement. Flood control, groundwater recharge, and
pollutant reduction shall be achieved through the use of stormwater management
measures, including green infrastructure Best Management Practices (Gl BMPs)
and nonstructural stormwater management strategies. Gl BMPs and low impact
development (LID) should be utilized to meet the goal of maintaining natural
hydrology to reduce stormwater runoff volume, reduce erosion, encourage
infiltration and groundwater recharge and reduce pollution. Gl BMPs and LID
should be developed based upon physical site conditions and the origin, nature,
and the anticipated quantity or amount of potential pollutants. Multiple
stormwater management BMPs may be necessary to achieve the established
performance standards for water quality, quantity, and groundwater recharge.
      (2)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish minimum
stormwater management requirements and controls for major development, as
defined in division (B) below.
      (3)   Applicability.
         (a)   This section shall be applicable to all site plans and
subdivisions for the following major developments that require preliminary or
final site plan or subdivision review:
            1.    Non-residential major developments; and
            2.   Aspects of residential major developments that are not pre-
empted by the Residential Site Improvement Standards at N.J.A.C. 5:21.
         (b)   This section shall also be applicable to all major developments
undertaken by the Voorhees Township.
      (4)   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements.
         (a)   Development approvals issued pursuant to this section are to be
considered an integral part of development approvals and do not relieve the
applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other applicable code, rule, act, or ordinance. In
their interpretation and application, the provisions of this section shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
         (b)   This section is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or
annul any other ordinances, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of
law except that, where any provision of this section imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or
other provision of law, the more restrictive provisions or higher standards
shall control.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein
unless their use in the text of this division clearly demonstrates a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory. The definitions
below are the same as or based on the corresponding definitions in the
Stormwater Management Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:7-13.16.
      CAFRA CENTERS, CORES OR NODES. Those areas within boundaries incorporated
by reference or revised by the Department pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:8E-5B.
      CAFRA PLANNING MAP. The map used by the Department to identify the
location of Coastal Planning Areas, CAFRA Centers, CAFRA Cores and CAFRA Nodes.
The CAFRA PLANNING MAP is available on the Department’s Geographic Information
System (GIS).
      COMMUNITY BASIN. An infiltration system, sand filter designed to
infiltrate, standard constructed wetland, or wet pond, established in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:8-4.2(c)14, that is designed and constructed in
accordance with the New Jersey Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual, or
an alternate design, approved in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(g), for an
infiltration system, sand filter designed to infiltrate, standard constructed
wetland, or wet pond and that complies with the requirements of this division.
      COMPACTION. The increase in soil bulk density.
      CONTRIBUTARY DRAINAGE AREA. The area from which stormwater runoff drains
to a stormwater management measure, not including the area of the stormwater
management area itself.
      CORE. A pedestrian-oriented area of commercial and civic uses serving the
surrounding municipality, generally including housing and access to public
transportation.
      COUNTY REVIEW AGENCY. An agency designated by the Board of County
Commissioners to review municipal stormwater management plans and implementing
ordinance(s). The county review agency may either be:
         (a)   A county planning agency; or
         (b)   A county water resource association created under N.J.S.A 58:
16A-55.5, if the ordinance or resolution delegates authority to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove municipal stormwater management plans and
implementing ordinances.
      DEPARTMENT. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection.
      DESIGN ENGINEER. A person professionally qualified and duly licensed in
New Jersey to perform engineering services that may include, but not
necessarily be limited to, development of project requirements, creation and
development of project design and preparation of drawings and specifications.
      DESIGNATED CENTER. A State Development and Redevelopment Plan Center as
designated by the State Planning Commission such as urban, regional, town,
village, or hamlet.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels, the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any building or structure, any mining excavation or landfill,
and any use or change in the use of any building or other structure, or land or
extension of use of land, by any person, for which permission is required under
the Municipal Land Use Law, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.
         (b)   In the case of development of agricultural lands, development
means: any activity that requires a state permit; any activity reviewed by the
County Agricultural Board (CAB) and the State Agricultural Development
Committee (SADC), and municipal review of any activity not exempted by the
Right to Farm Act, N.J.S.A. 4:1C-1 et seq.
      DISTURBANCE. The placement or reconstruction of impervious surface or
motor vehicle surface, or exposure and/or movement of soil or bedrock or
clearing, cutting, or removing of vegetation. Milling and repaving is not
considered DISTURBANCE for the purpose of this definition.
      DRAINAGE AREA. A geographic area within which stormwater, sediments, or
dissolved materials drain to a particular receiving waterbody or to a
particular point along a receiving waterbody.
      EMPOWERMENT NEIGHBORHOODS. A neighborhood designated by the Urban
Coordinating  Council in consultation and conjunction with the New Jersey
Redevelopment Authority pursuant to N.J.S.A. 55:19-69.
      ENVIRONMENTALLY CONSTRAINED AREA. The following areas where the physical
alteration of the land is in some way restricted, either through regulation,
easement, deed restriction or ownership such as: wetlands, floodplains,
threatened and endangered species sites or designated habitats, and parks and
preserves. Habitats of endangered or threatened species are identified using
the Department’s Landscape Project as approved by the Department’s Endangered
and Nongame Species Program.
      ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREAS. An area or feature which is of
significant environmental value, including but not limited to: stream
corridors; natural heritage priority sites; habitat of endangered or threatened
species; large areas of contiguous open space or upland forest; steep slopes;
and well head protection and groundwater recharge areas. Habitats of endangered
or threatened species are identified using the Department’s Landscape Project
as approved by the Department’s Endangered and Nongame Species Program.
      EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice or gravity.
      GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. A stormwater management measure that manages
stormwater close to its source by:
         (a)   Treating stormwater runoff through infiltration into subsoil; or
         (b)   Treating stormwater runoff through filtration by vegetation or
soil; or
         (c)   Storming stormwater runoff for reuse.
      HUC-14 OR HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE 14. An area within which water drains to a
particular
receiving surface water body, also known as subwatershed, which is identified
by a 14-digit hydrologic unit boundary designation, delineated within New
Jersey by the United States Geological Survey.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that has been covered with a layer of
material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water.
      INFILTRATION. The process by which water seeps into the soil from
precipitation.
      LEAD PLANNING AGENCY. One or more public entities having stormwater
management planning authority designated by the regional stormwater management
planning committee pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:8-3.2, that serves as the primary
representative of the committee.
      MAJOR DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   An individual “development,” as well as multiple developments
that individually or collectively result in:
            1.   The disturbance of one or more acres of land since February 2,
2004;
            2.   The creation of one-quarter acre or more of “regulated
impervious surface” since February 2, 2004;
            3.   The creation of one-quarter acre or more of “regulated motor
vehicle surface” since March 2, 2021; or
            4.   A combination of 2. and 3. above that totals an area of one-
quarter acre or more. The same surface shall not be counted twice when
determining if the combination area equals one-quarter acre or more.
         (b)   MAJOR DEVELOPMENT includes all developments that are part of a
common plan of development or sale (for example, phased residential
development) that collectively or individually meet any one or more 1., 2., 3.
or 4. above. Projects undertaken by any government agency that otherwise meet
the definition of MAJOR DEVELOPMENT but do not require approval under Municipal
Land Use Law, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq., are also considered MAJOR DEVELOPMENT.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Land vehicles propelled other than by muscular power, such
as automobiles, motorcycles, autocycles, and low speed vehicles. For the
purposes of this definition, MOTOR VEHICLE does not include farm equipment,
snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, motorized wheelchairs, go-carts, gas
buggies, golf carts, ski-slope grooming machines or vehicles that run only on
rails or tracks.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Voorhees.
      NEW JERSEY STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) MANUAL or BMP
MANUAL. The manual maintained by the Department providing, in part, design
specifications, removal rates, calculation methods, and soil testing procedures
approved by the Department as being capable of contributing to the achievement
of the stormwater management standards specified in this division. The BMP
MANUAL is periodically amended by the Department as necessary to provide design
specifications on additional best management practices and new information on
already included practices reflecting the best available current information
regarding the particular practice and the Department’s determination as to the
ability of that best management practice to contribute to compliance with the
standards contained in this division. Alternative stormwater management
measures, removal rates, or calculation methods may be utilized, subject to the
township, in accordance with division (D)(7) below and N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(g),
that the proposed measure and its design will contribute to achievement of the
design and performance standards established by this chapter.
      NODE. An area designated by the State Planning Commission concentrating
facilities and activities which are not organized in a compact form.
      NUTRIENT. A chemical element or compound, such as nitrogen or phosphorus,
which is essential to and promotes the development of organisms.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association, Voorhees Township, or political subdivision of this state and any
state, interstate or federal agency.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, refuse, oil, grease, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical wastes, biological materials, medical wastes, radioactive substance
(except those regulated under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42
U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), thermal waste, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal, agricultural, and construction waste
or runoff, or other residue discharged directly or indirectly to the land,
ground waters or surface waters of the state, or to a domestic treatment works.
POLLUTANT includes both hazardous and nonhazardous pollutants.
      RECHARGE. The amount of water from precipitation that infiltrates into
the ground and is not evapotranspired.
      REGULATED IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any of the following, alone or in
combination:
         (a)   A net increase of impervious surface;
         (b)   The total area of impervious surface collected by a new
stormwater conveyance system (for the purpose of this definition, a new
stormwater conveyance system is a stormwater conveyance system that is
constructed where one did not exist immediately prior to its construction or an
existing system for which a new discharge location is created);
         (c)   The total area of impervious surface proposed to be newly
collected by an existing stormwater conveyance system; and/or
         (d)   The total area of impervious surface collected by an existing
stormwater conveyance system where the capacity of that conveyance system is
increased.
      REGULATED MOTOR VEHICLE SURFACE. Any of the following, alone or in
combination:
         (a)   The total area of motor vehicle surface that is currently
receiving water;
         (b)   A new increase in motor vehicle surface; and/or quality
treatment either by vegetation or soil, by an existing stormwater management
measure, or by treatment at a wastewater treatment plant, where the water
quality treatment will be modified or removed.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material, mineral or organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water or
gravity as a product of erosion.
      SITE. The lot or lots upon which a major development is to occur or has
occurred.
      SOIL. All unconsolidated mineral and organic material of any origin.
      STATE DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PLAN METROPOLITAN PLANNING AREA
(PA1). An area delineated on the State Plan Policy Map and adopted by the State
Planning Commission that is intended to be the focus for much of the state’s
future redevelopment and revitalization efforts.
      STATE PLAN POLICY MAP. The geographic application of the State
Development and Redevelopment Plan’s goals and statewide policies, and the
official map of these goals and policies.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from precipitation (including rain and snow)
that runs off the land’s surface, is transmitted to the subsurface, or  is
captured by separate storm sewers or other sewage or drainage facilities or
conveyed by snow removal equipment.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BMP. An excavation or embankment and related areas
designed to retain stormwater runoff. A STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BMP may either be
normally dry (that is, a detention basin or infiltration system), retain water
in a permanent pool (a retention basin), or be planted mainly with wetland
vegetation (most constructed stormwater wetlands).
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT MEASURE. Any practice, technology, process,
program, or other method intended to control or reduce stormwater runoff and
associated pollutants, or to induce or control the infiltration or groundwater
recharge of stormwater or to eliminate illicit or illegal non-stormwater
discharges into stormwater conveyances.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANNING AGENCY. A public body authorized by
legislation to prepared stormwater management plans.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANNING AREA. The geographic area for which a
stormwater management planning agency is authorized to prepared stormwater
management plans, or a specific portion of that area identified in a stormwater
management plan prepared by that agency.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. Water flow on the surface of the ground or in storm
sewers, resulting from precipitation.
      TIDAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A flood hazard area in which the flood elevation
resulting from the two-, ten- or 100-year storm, as applicable, is governed by
tidal flooding from the Atlantic Ocean. Flooding in a TIDAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
may be contributed to, or influenced by, stormwater runoff from inland areas,
but the depth of flooding generated by the tidal rise and fall of the Atlantic
Ocean is greater than flooding from any fluvial sources. In  some situations,
depending upon the extent of the storm surge from a particular storm event, a
flood hazard area may be tidal in the 100-year storm, but fluvial in more
frequent storm events.
      URBAN COORDINATING COUNCIL EMPOWERMENT NEIGHBORHOOD. A neighborhood given
priority access to state resources through the New Jersey Redevelopment
Authority.
      URBAN ENTERPRISE ZONES. A zone designated by the New Jersey Enterprise
Zone Authority pursuant to the New Jersey Urban Enterprise Zones Act, N.J.S.A.
52:27H-60 et seq.
      URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AREA. Previously developed portions of areas:
         (a)   Delineated on the State Plan Policy Map (SPPM) as the
Metropolitan Planning Area (PA1), Designated Centers, Cores or Nodes;
         (b)   Designated as CAFRA Centers, Cores or Nodes;
         (c)   Designated as Urban Enterprise Zones; and
         (d)   Designated as Urban Coordinating Council Empowerment
Neighborhoods.
      WATER CONTROL STRUCTURE. A structure within, or adjacent to, a water,
which intentionally or coincidentally alters the hydraulic capacity, the flood
elevation resulting from the two-, ten- or 100-year storm, flood hazard area
limit, and/or floodway limit of the water. Examples of a WATER CONTROL
STRUCTURE may include a bridge, culvert, dam, embankment, ford (if above
grade), retaining wall, and weir.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. The ocean and its estuaries, all springs, streams,
wetlands, and bodies of surface or ground water, whether natural or artificial,
within the boundaries of the State of New Jersey or subject to its
jurisdiction.
      WETLANDS or WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface
water or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and
that under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as
hydrophytic vegetation.
   (C)   Design and performance standards for stormwater management measures.
      (1)   Stormwater management measures for major development shall be
designed to provide the erosion control, groundwater recharge, stormwater
runoff quantity, and stormwater runoff quality standards as follows:
         (a)   The minimum standards for erosion control are those established
under the Soil and Sediment Control Act, N.J.S.A. 4:24-39 et seq., and
implementing rules at N.J.A.C. 2:90.
         (b)   The minimum standards for groundwater recharge, stormwater
quality and stormwater runoff quantity shall be met by incorporating green
infrastructure.
      (2)   The standards in this section apply only to new major development
and are intended to minimize the impact of stormwater runoff on water quality
and water quantity in receiving water bodies and maintain groundwater recharge.
The standards do not apply to new major development to the extent that
alternative design and performance standards are applicable under a regional
stormwater management plan or Water Quality Management Plan adopted in
accordance with Department rules.
   (D)   Stormwater management requirements for major development.
      (1)   The development shall incorporate a maintenance plan for the
stormwater management measures incorporated into the design of a major
development in accordance with division (J) below.
      (2)   Stormwater management measures shall avoid adverse impacts of
concentrated flow on habitat for threatened and endangered species as
documented in the Department Landscape Project or Natural Heritage Database
established under N.J.S.A. 13:1B-15.147 through 15.150, particularly Helonias
bullata (swamp pink) and/or Clemmys muhlnebergi (bog turtle).
      (3)   The following linear development projects are exempt from the
groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff quality, and stormwater runoff quantity
requirements of divisions (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) below.
         (a)   The construction of an underground utility line provided that
the disturbed areas are revegetated upon completion; and
         (b)   The construction of an aboveground utility line provided that
the existing conditions are maintained to the maximum extent practicable; and
         (c)   The construction of a public pedestrian access, such as a
sidewalk or trail with a maximum width of 14 feet, provided that the access is
made of permeable material.
      (4)   A waiver from strict compliance from the green infrastructure,
groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff quality, and stormwater runoff quantity
requirements of divisions (D)(15), (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) may be obtained
for the enlargement of an existing public roadway or railroad; or the
construction or enlargement of a public pedestrian access, provided that the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant demonstrates that there is a public need for the
project that cannot be accomplished by any other means; and
         (b)   The applicant demonstrates through an alternatives analysis,
that through the use of nonstructural and structural stormwater management
measures, the option selected complies with the requirements of divisions (D)
(15), (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) to the maximum extent practicable; and
         (c)   The applicant demonstrates that, in order to meet the
requirements of divisions (D)(15), (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) below, existing
structures currently in use, such as homes and buildings, would need to be
condemned; and
         (d)   The applicant demonstrates that it does not own or have other
rights to areas, including the potential to obtain through condemnation lands
not falling under division (D)(4)(c) above within the upstream drainage area of
the receiving stream, that would provide additional opportunities to mitigate
the requirements of divisions (D)(15), (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) below that
were not achievable on-site.
      (5)   Tables 1 through 3 below summarize the ability of stormwater best
management practices identified and described in the New Jersey Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual to satisfy the green infrastructure, groundwater
recharge, stormwater runoff quality and stormwater runoff quantity standards
specified in divisions (D)(15), (D)(16), (D)(17), and (D)(18). When designed in
accordance with the most current version of the New Jersey Stormwater Best
Management Practices Manual, the stormwater management measures found at
N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(f) Tables 5-1, 5-2 and 5-3 and listed below in Tables 1, 2 and
3 are presumed to be capable of providing stormwater controls for the design
and performance standards as outlined in the tables below. Upon amendments of
the New Jersey Stormwater Best Management Practices to reflect additions or
deletions of BMPs meeting these standards, or changes in the presumed
performance of BMPs designed in accordance with the New Jersey Stormwater BMP
Manual, the Department shall publish in the New Jersey Registers a notice of
administrative change revising the applicable table. The most current version
of the BMP Manual can be found on the Department’s website at: https://
njstormwater.org/bmp_manual2.htm.
      (6)   Where the BMP tables in the NJ Stormwater Management Rule are
different due to updates or amendments with the tables in this section the BMP
Tables in the Stormwater Management rule at N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(f) shall take
precedence.
Table 1
Green Infrastructure BMPs for Groundwater Recharge. Stormwater Runoff Quality,
and/or Stormwater Runoff Quantity
                Stormwater                                      Minimum
Best Management Runoff Quality   Stormwater Runoff Groundwat er Separation from
Practice        TSS Removal Rate Quantity          Recharge     Seasonal High-
                (percent)                                       Water Table
                                                                (feet)
Table 1
Green Infrastructure BMPs for Groundwater Recharge. Stormwater Runoff Quality,
and/or Stormwater Runoff Quantity
                 Stormwater                                    Minimum
Best Management  Runoff Quality   Stormwater      Groundwat er Separation from
Practice         TSS Removal Rate Runoff Quantity Recharge     Seasonal High-
                 (percent)                                     Water Table
                                                               (feet)
Cistern          0                Yes             No           —
Dry Well(a)      0                No              Yes          2
Grass Swale      50 or less       No              No           2(e)
                                                               1(f)
Green Roof       0                Yes             No           —
Manufactured                                                   Dependent upon
Treatment Device 50 or 80         No              No           the device
(a)(g)
Pervious Paving  80               Yes             Yes(b)       2(b)
System(a)                                         No(c)        1(c)
Small-Scale                                       Yes(b)       2(b)
Bioretention     80 or 90         Yes             No(c)        1(c)
Basin(a)
Small-Scale
Infiltration     80               Yes             Yes          2
Basin (a)
Small-Scale Sand 80               Yes             Yes          2
Filter
Vegetative       60-80            No              No           —
Filter Strip
(Notes corresponding to annotations (a) through (e) are found at the end of
Table 3)
 
 
Table 2
Green Infrastructure BMPs for Stormwater Runoff Quantity
(or for Groundwater Recharge and/or Stormwater Runoff Quality with a Waiver or
Variance from N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.3)
                Stormwater                                      Minimum
Best Management Runoff Quality   Stormwater Runoff Groundwat er Separation from
Practice        RSS Removal Rate Quantity          Recharge     Seasonal High
                (percent)                                       Water Table
                                                                (feet)
Table 2
Green Infrastructure BMPs for Stormwater Runoff Quantity
(or for Groundwater Recharge and/or Stormwater Runoff Quality with a Waiver or
Variance from N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.3)
                Stormwater                                      Minimum
Best Management Runoff Quality   Stormwater Runoff Groundwat er Separation from
Practice        RSS Removal Rate Quantity          Recharge     Seasonal High
                (percent)                                       Water Table
                                                                (feet)
Bioretention    80 or 90         Yes               Yes(b)       2(b)
System                                             No(c)        l(c)
Infiltration    80               Yes               Yes          2
Basin
Sand Filter(b)  80               Yes               Yes          2
Standard
Constructed     90               Yes               No           N/A
Wetland
Wet Pond(d)     50-90            Yes               No           N/A
(Notes corresponding to annotations (b) through(d) are found at the end of
Table 3)
 
Table 3
BMPs for Groundwater Recharge. Stormwater Runoff Quality, and/or Stormwater
Runoff Quantity only with a Waiver or Variance from N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.3
                Stormwater Runoff                              Minimum
Best Management Quality TSS       Stormwate r     Groundwat er Separation from
Practice        Removal Rate      Runoff Quantity Recharge     Seasonal High
                (percent)                                      Water Table
                                                               (feet)
Table 3
BMPs for Groundwater Recharge. Stormwater Runoff Quality, and/or Stormwater
Runoff Quantity only with a Waiver or Variance from N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.3
                 Stormwater Runoff                              Minimum
Best Management  Quality TSS       Stormwate r     Groundwat er Separation from
Practice         Removal Rate      Runoff Quantity Recharge     Seasonal High
                 (percent)                                      Water Table
                                                                (feet)
Blue Roof        0                 Yes             No           N/A
Extended         40-60             Yes             No           1
Detention Basin
Manufactured                                                    Dependent upon
Treatment Device 50 or 80          No              No           the device
(h)
Sand Filter(c)   80                Yes             No           1
Subsurface       90                No              No           1
Gravel Wetland
Wet Pond         50-90             Yes             No           N/A
Notes to Tables 1, 2, and 3:
(a)   subject to the applicable contributory drainage area limitation specified
at division (D)(15)(b);
(b)   designed to infiltrate into the subsoil;
(c)   designed with underdrains;
(d)   designed to maintain at least a 10-foot wide area of native vegetation
along at least 50% of the shoreline and to include a stormwater runoff
retention component designed to capture stormwater runoff for beneficial reuse,
such as irrigation;
(e)   designed with a slope of less than 2%;
(f)   designed with a slope of equal to or greater than 2%;
(g)   manufactured treatment devices that meet the definition of green
infrastructure at division (B);
(h)   manufactured treatment devices that do not meet the definition of green
infrastructure at division (B).
 
      (7)   An alternative stormwater management measure, alternative removal
rate, and/or alternative method to calculate the removal rate may be used if
the design engineer demonstrates the capability of the proposed alternative
stormwater management measure and/or the validity of the alternative rate or
method to the township. A copy of any approved alternative stormwater
management measure, alternative removal rate, and/or alternative method to
calculate the removal rate shall be provided to the Department in accordance
with division (F)(2). Alternative stormwater management measures may be used to
satisfy the requirements at division (D)(15) only if the measures meet the
definition of green infrastructure at
division (B). Alternative stormwater management measures that function in a
similar manner to a BMP listed at division (D)(15)(b) are subject to the
contributory drainage area limitation specified at division (D)(15)(b) for that
similarly functioning BMP. Alternative stormwater management measures approved
in accordance with this subsection that do not function in a similar manner to
any BMP listed at division (D)(15)(b) shall have a contributory drainage area
less than or equal to two and one-half acres, except for alternative stormwater
management measures that function similarly to cisterns, grass swales, green
roofs, standard constructed wetlands, vegetative filter strips, and wet ponds,
which are not subject to a contributory drainage area limitation. Alternative
measures that function similarly to standard constructed wetlands or wet ponds
shall not be used for compliance with the stormwater runoff quality standard
unless a variance in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:8-4.6 or a waiver from strict
compliance in accordance with division (D)(4) is granted from division (D)(15).
      (8)   Whenever the stormwater management design includes one or more BMPs
that will infiltrate stormwater into subsoil, the design engineer shall assess
the hydraulic impact on the groundwater table and design the site, so as to
avoid adverse hydraulic impacts. Potential adverse hydraulic impacts include,
but are not limited to, exacerbating a naturally or seasonally high-water
table, so as to cause surficial ponding, flooding of basements, or interference
with the proper operation of subsurface sewage disposal systems or other
subsurface structures within the zone of influence of the groundwater mound, or
interference with the proper functioning of the stormwater management measure
itself.
      (9)   Design standards for stormwater management measures are as follows:
         (a)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed to take into
account the existing site conditions, including, but not limited to,
environmentally critical areas; wetlands; flood-prone areas; slopes; depth to
seasonal high-water table; soil type, permeability, and texture; drainage area
and drainage patterns; and the presence of solution-prone carbonate rocks
(limestone);
         (b)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed to minimize
maintenance, facilitate maintenance and repairs, and ensure proper functioning.
Trash racks shall be installed at the intake to the outlet structure, as
appropriate, and shall have parallel bars with one inch spacing between the
bars to the elevation of the water quality design storm. For elevations higher
than the water quality design storm, the parallel bars at the outlet structure
shall be spaced no greater than one-third the width of the diameter of the
orifice or one-third the width of the weir, with a
minimum spacing between bars of one inch and a maximum spacing between bars of
six inches. In addition, the design of trash racks must comply with the
requirements of division (H)(3);
         (c)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed, constructed,
and installed to be strong, durable, and corrosion resistant. Measures that are
consistent with the relevant portions of the Residential Site Improvement
Standards at N.J.A.C. 5:21-7.3, 7.4, and 7.5 shall be deemed to meet this
requirement;
         (d)   Stormwater management BMPs shall be designed to meet the minimum
safety standards for stormwater management BMPs at division (H); and
         (e)   The size of the orifice at the intake to the outlet from the
stormwater management BMP shall be a minimum of two and one-half inches in
diameter.
      (10)   Manufactured treatment devices may be used to meet the
requirements of this subchapter, provided the pollutant removal rates are
verified by the New Jersey Corporation for Advanced Technology and certified by
the Department. Manufactured treatment devices that do not meet the definition
of green infrastructure at division (B) may be used only under the
circumstances described at division (D)(15)(d).
      (11)   Any application for a new agricultural development that meets the
definition of major development at division (B) shall be submitted to the Soil
Conservation District for review and approval in accordance with the
requirements at divisions (D)(15), (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) and any
applicable Soil Conservation District guidelines for stormwater runoff quantity
and erosion control. For purposes of this division (D), AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT means land uses normally associated with the production of food,
fiber, and livestock for sale. Such uses do not include the development of land
for the processing or sale of food and the manufacture of agriculturally
related products.
      (12)   If there is more than one drainage area, the groundwater recharge,
stormwater runoff quality, and stormwater runoff quantity standards at
divisions (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18) shall be met in each drainage area,
unless the runoff from the drainage areas converge onsite and no adverse
environmental impact would occur as a result of compliance with any one or more
of the individual standards being determined utilizing a weighted average of
the results achieved for that individual standard across the affected drainage
areas.
      (13)   Any stormwater management measure authorized under the municipal
stormwater management plan or ordinance shall be reflected in a deed notice
recorded in the Camden County Clerk’s Office. A form of deed notice shall be
submitted to the township for approval prior to filing. The deed notice shall
contain a description of the stormwater management measure(s) used to meet the
green infrastructure, groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff quality, and
stormwater runoff quantity standards at divisions (D)(15), (D)(16), (D)(17) and
(D)(18) and shall identify the location of the stormwater management measure(s)
in NAD 1983 State Plane New Jersey FIPS 2900 US Feet or Latitude and Longitude
in decimal degrees. The deed notice shall also reference the maintenance plan
required to be recorded upon the deed pursuant to division (J)(2)(e). Prior to
the commencement of construction, proof that the above required deed notice has
been filed shall be submitted to the township. Proof that the required
information has been recorded on the deed shall be in the form of either a copy
of the complete recorded document or a receipt from the Clerk or other proof of
recordation provided by the recording office. However, if the initial proof
provided to the township is not a copy of the complete recorded document, a
copy of the complete recorded document shall be provided to the township within
180 calendar days of the authorization granted by the township.
      (14)   A stormwater management measure approved under the municipal
stormwater management plan or ordinance may be altered or replaced with the
approval of the township, if the township determines that the proposed
alteration or replacement meets the design and performance standards pursuant
to division (D) of this section and provides the same level of stormwater
management as the previously approved stormwater management measure that is
being altered or replaced. If an alteration or replacement is approved, a
revised deed notice shall be submitted to the township for approval and
subsequently recorded with the Camden County Clerk’s Office, and shall contain
a description and location of the stormwater management measure, as well as
reference to the maintenance plan, in accordance with division (D)(13) above.
Prior to the commencement of construction, proof that the above required deed
notice has been filed shall be submitted to the township in accordance with
division (D)(13) above.
      (15)   Green infrastructure standards.
         (a)   This division (D)(15) specifies the types of green
infrastructure BMPs that may be used to satisfy the groundwater recharge,
stormwater runoff quality, and stormwater runoff quantity standards.
         (b)   To satisfy the groundwater recharge and stormwater runoff
quality standards at divisions (D)(16) and (D)(17), the design engineer shall
utilize green infrastructure BMPs identified in Table 1 at division (D)(6) and/
or an alternative stormwater management measure approved in accordance with
division (D)(7). The following green infrastructure BMPs are subject to the
following maximum contributory drainage area limitations:
 
Best Management Practice         Maximum Contributory Drainage Area
Dry Well                         1 acre
Manufactured Treatment Device    2.5 acres
Pervious Pavement Systems        Area of additional inflow cannot exceed three
                                 times the area occupied by the BMP
Small-scale Bioretention Systems 2.5 acres
Small-scale Infiltration Basin   2.5 acres
Small-scale Sand Filter          2.5 acres
 
         (c)   To satisfy the stormwater runoff quantity standards at division
(D)(18), the design engineer shall utilize BMPs from Table 1 or from Table 2
and/or an alternative stormwater management measure approved in accordance with
division (D)(7).
         (d)   If a variance in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:8-4.6 or a waiver
from strict compliance in accordance with division (D)(4) is granted from the
requirements of this division (D)(15), then BMPs from Table 1, 2, or 3, and/or
an alternative stormwater management measure approved in accordance with
division (D)(7) may be used to meet the groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff
quality, and stormwater runoff quantity standards at divisions (D)(16), (D)
(17)and (D)(18).
         (e)   For separate or combined storm sewer improvement projects, such
as sewer separation, undertaken by a government agency or public utility (for
example, a sewerage company), the requirements of this division (D)(15) shall
only apply to areas owned in fee simple by the government agency or utility,
and areas within a right-of-way or easement held or controlled by the
government agency or utility; the entity shall not be required to obtain
additional property or property rights to fully satisfy the requirements of
this division (D)(15). Regardless of the amount of area of a separate or
combined storm sewer improvement project subject to the green infrastructure
requirements of this division (D)(15), each project shall fully comply with the
applicable groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff quality control, and
stormwater runoff quantity standards at division (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18),
unless the project is granted a waiver from strict compliance in accordance
with division (D)(4).
      (16)   Groundwater recharge standards.
         (a)   This division (D)(16) contains the minimum design and
performance standards for groundwater recharge as follows:
         (b)   The design engineer shall, using the assumptions and factors for
stormwater runoff and groundwater recharge calculations at division (E),
either:
            1.    Demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that
the site and its stormwater management measures maintain 100% of the average
annual pre-construction groundwater recharge volume for the site; or
            2.    Demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that
the increase of stormwater runoff volume from pre-construction to post-
construction for the two-year storm is infiltrated.
         (c)   This groundwater recharge requirement does not apply to projects
within the urban redevelopment area, or to projects subject to division (D)(16)
(d) below.
         (d)   The following types of stormwater shall not be recharged:
            1.    Stormwater from areas of high pollutant loading. High
pollutant loading areas are areas in industrial and commercial developments
where solvents and/or petroleum products are loaded/unloaded, stored, or
applied, areas where pesticides are loaded/unloaded or stored; areas where
hazardous materials are expected to be present in greater than reportable
quantities as defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) at 40 CFR 302.4; areas where recharge would be inconsistent with
Department approved remedial action work plan or landfill closure plan and
areas with high risks for spills of toxic materials, such as gas stations and
vehicle maintenance facilities; and
            2.    Industrial stormwater exposed to source material. SOURCE
MATERIAL means any material(s) or machinery, located at an industrial facility,
that is directly or indirectly related to process, manufacturing or other
industrial activities, which could be a source of pollutants in any industrial
stormwater discharge to groundwater. SOURCE MATERIALS include, but are not
limited to, raw materials; intermediate products; final products; waste
materials; by-products; industrial machinery and fuels, and lubricants,
solvents, and detergents that are related to process, manufacturing, or other
industrial activities that are exposed to stormwater.
      (17)   Stormwater runoff quality standards.
         (a)   This division (D)(17) contains the minimum design and
performance standards to control stormwater runoff quality impacts of major
development. Stormwater runoff quality standards are applicable when the major
development results in an increase of one-quarter acre or more of regulated
motor vehicle surface.
         (b)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed to reduce the
post-construction load of total suspended solids (TSS) in stormwater runoff
generated from the water quality design storm as follows:
            1.   Eighty percent TSS removal of the anticipated load, expressed
as an annual average shall be achieved for the stormwater runoff from the net
increase of motor vehicle surface.
            2.   If the surface is considered regulated motor vehicle surface
because the water quality treatment for an area of motor vehicle surface that
is currently receiving water quality treatment either by vegetation or soil, by
an existing stormwater management measure, or by treatment at a wastewater
treatment plant is to be modified or removed, the project shall maintain or
increase the existing TSS removal of the anticipated load expressed as an
annual average.
         (c)   The requirement to reduce TSS does not apply to any stormwater
runoff in a discharge regulated under a numeric effluent limitation for TSS
imposed under the New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NJPDES)
rules, N.J.A.C. 7:14A, or in a discharge specifically exempt under a NJPDES
permit from this requirement. Every major development, including any that
discharge into a combined sewer system, shall comply with division (D)(17)(b)
above, unless the major development is itself subject to a NJPDES permit with a
numeric effluent limitation for TSS or the NJPDES permit to which the major
development is subject exempts the development from a numeric effluent
limitation for TSS.
         (d)   The water quality design storm is one and one-quarter inches of
rainfall in two hours. Water quality calculations shall take into account the
distribution of rain from the water quality design storm, as reflected in Table
4, below. The calculation of the volume of runoff may take into account the
implementation of stormwater management measures.
 
Table 4 - Water Quality Design Storm Distribution
               Cumulative                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                  (Inches)                  (Inches)
Table 4 - Water Quality Design Storm Distribution
               Cumulative                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                  (Inches)                  (Inches)
1              0.00166    41             0.1728     81             1.0906
2              0.00332    42             0.1796     82             1.0972
3              0.00498    43             0.1864     83             1.1038
4              0.00664    44             0.1932     84             1.1104
5              0.00830    45             0.2000     85             1.1170
6              0.00996    46             0.2117     86             1.1236
7              0.01162    47             0.2233     87             1.1302
8              0.01328    48             0.2350     88             1.1368
9              0.01494    49             0.2466     89             1.1434
10             0.01660    50             0.2583     90             1.1500
11             0.01828    51             0.2783     91             1.1550
12             0.01996    52             0.2983     92             1.1600
13             0.02164    53             0.3183     93             1.1650
14             0.02332    54             0.3383     94             1.1700
15             0.02500    55             0.3583     95             1.1750
16             0.03000    56             0.4116     96             1.1800
17             0.03500    57             0.4650     97             1.1850
18             0.04000    58             0.5183     98             1.1900
19             0.04500    59             0.5717     99             1.1950
20             0.05000    60             0.6250     100            1.2000
21             0.05500    61             0.6783     101            1.2050
22             0.06000    62             0.7317     102            1.2100
23             0.06500    63             0.7850     103            1.2150
24             0.07000    64             0.8384     104            1.2200
25             0.07500    65             0.8917     105            1.2250
26             0.08000    66             0.9117     106            1.2267
27             0.08500    67             0.9317     107            1.2284
28             0.09000    68             0.9517     108            1.2300
 
Table 4 - Water Quality Design Storm Distribution
               Cumulativ e                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall    Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                   (Inches)                  (Inches)
Table 4 - Water Quality Design Storm Distribution
               Cumulativ e                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall    Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                   (Inches)                  (Inches)
29             0.09500     69             0.9717     109            1.2317
30             0.10000     70             0.9917     110            1.2334
31             0.10660     71             1.0034     111            1.2351
32             0.11320     72             1.0150     112            1.2367
33             0.11980     73             1.0267     113            1.2384
34             0.12640     74             1.0383     114            1.2400
35             0.13300     75             1.0500     115            1.2417
36             0.13960     76             1.0568     116            1.2434
37             0.14620     77             1.0636     117            1.2450
38             0.15280     78             1.0704     118            1.2467
39             0.15940     79             1.0772     119            1.2483
40             0.16600     80             1.0840     120            1.2500
 
         (e)   If more than one BMP in series is necessary to achieve the
required 80% TSS reduction for a site, the applicant shall utilize the
following formula to calculate TSS reduction:
            R = A + B - (AXB)/100
            Where:
            R = Total TSS percent load
               removal from application of both BMPs, and
            A = The TSS percent removal rate applicable to the first BMP
            B = The TSS percent removal rate applicable to the second BMP
         (f)   Stormwater management measures shall also be designed to reduce,
to the maximum extent feasible, the post-construction nutrient load of the
anticipated load from the developed site in stormwater runoff generated from
the water quality design storm. In achieving reduction of nutrients to the
maximum extent feasible, the design of the site shall include green
infrastructure BMPs that optimize nutrient removal while still achieving the
performance standards in divisions (D)(16), (D)(17) and (D)(18).
         (g)   In accordance with the definition of FW1 at N.J.A.C. 7:9B1.4,
stormwater management measures shall be designed to prevent any increase in
stormwater runoff to waters classified as FW1.
         (h)   The Flood Hazard Area Control Act Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:13-4.1(c)1
establish 300-foot riparian zones along Category One waters, as designated in
the Surface Water Quality Standards at N.J.A.C. 7:9B, and certain upstream
tributaries to Category One waters. A person shall not undertake a major
development that is located within or discharges into a 300-foot riparian zone
without prior authorization from the Department under N.J.A.C. 7:13.
         (i)   Pursuant to the Flood Hazard Area Control Act Rules at N.J.A.C.
7:13-11.2(j)3.i, runoff from the water quality design storm that is discharged
within a 300-foot riparian zone shall be treated in accordance with this
division (D)(17) to reduce the post-construction load of total suspended solids
by 95% of the anticipated load from the developed site, expressed as an annual
average.
         (j)   This stormwater runoff quality standards do not apply to the
construction of one individual single-family dwelling, provide that is not part
of a larger development or subdivision that has received preliminary or final
site plan approval prior to December 3, 2018 and that the motor vehicle
surfaces are made of permeable material(s) such as gravel, dirt, and/or shells.
      (18)   Stormwater runoff quantity standards.
         (a)   This division (D)(18) contains the minimum design and
performance standards to control stormwater runoff quantity impacts of major
development.
         (b)   In order to control stormwater runoff quantity impacts, the
design engineer shall, using the assumptions and factors for stormwater runoff
calculations at division (E), complete one of the following:
            1.    Demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that
for stormwater leaving the site, post-construction runoff hydrographs for the
two-, ten-, and 100-year storm events do not exceed, at any point in time, the
pre-construction runoff hydrographs for the same storm events;
            2.    Demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that
there is no increase, as compared to the pre-construction condition, in the
peak runoff rates of stormwater leaving the site for the two-, ten- and 100-
year storm events and that the increased volume or change in timing of
stormwater runoff will not increase flood damage at or downstream of the site.
This analysis shall include the analysis of impacts of existing land uses and
projected land uses assuming full development under existing zoning and land
use ordinances in the drainage area;
            3.   Design stormwater management measures so that the post-
construction peak runoff rates for the two-, ten- and 100-year storm events are
50%, 75% and 80%, respectively, of the pre-construction peak runoff rates. The
percentages apply only to the post-construction stormwater runoff that is
attributable to the portion of the site on which the proposed development or
project is to be constructed; or
            4.   In tidal flood hazard areas, stormwater runoff quantity
analysis in accordance with division (D)(18)(b)1., 2., and 3. above is required
unless the design engineer demonstrates through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis that the increased volume, change in timing, or increased rate of the
stormwater runoff, or any combination of the three will not result in
additional flood damage below the point of discharge of the major development.
No analysis is required if the stormwater is discharged directly into any
ocean, bay, inlet, or the reach of any watercourse between its confluence with
an ocean, bay, or inlet and downstream of the first water control structure.
         (c)   The stormwater runoff quantity standards shall be applied at the
site’s boundary to each abutting lot, roadway, watercourse, or receiving storm
sewer system.
   (E)   Calculation of stormwater runoff and groundwater recharge.
      (1)   Stormwater runoff shall be calculated in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The design engineer shall calculate runoff using one of the
following methods:
            1.   The USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)
methodology, including the NRCS Runoff Equation and Dimensionless Unit
Hydrograph, as described in Chapters 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16 Part 630, Hydrology
National Engineering Handbook, incorporated herein by reference as amended and
supplemented. This methodology is additionally described in Technical Release
55 - Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds (TR-55), dated June 1986,
incorporated herein by reference as amended and supplemented. Information
regarding the methodology is available from the Natural Resources Conservation
Service website at: https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/lnterne_t/FSE_DOCUMENTS/
stelprdbl044171.pdf or at United States Department of Agriculture Natural
Resources Conservation Service, 220 Davison Avenue, Somerset, New Jersey 08873;
or
            2.   The Rational Method for peak flow and the Modified Rational
Method for hydrograph computations. The rational and modified rational methods
are described in “Appendix A-9 Modified Rational Method” in the Standards for
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control in New Jersey, January 2014. This document is
available from the State Soil Conservation Committee or any of the Soil
Conservation Districts listed at N.J.A.C. 2:90-1.3(a)3. The location, address,
and telephone number for each Soil Conservation District-is available from the
State Soil Conservation Committee, PO Box 330, Trenton, New Jersey 08625. The
document is also available at: http://www.nj.gov/agriculture/div_isions/anr/
pdf/2014NJSoilErosionC_ontrolStandardsComplete.pdf.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating runoff coefficients and
groundwater recharge, there is a presumption that the pre-construction
condition of a site or portion thereof is a wooded land use with good
hydrologic condition. The term runoff coefficient applies to both the NRCS
methodology above at division (E)(l)(a)l and the Rational and Modified Rational
Methods at division (E)(l)(a)2. A runoff coefficient or a groundwater recharge
land cover for an existing condition may be used on all or a portion of the
site if the design engineer verifies that the hydrologic condition has existed
on the site or portion of the site for at least five years without interruption
prior to the time of application. If more than one land cover has existed on
the site during the five years immediately prior to the time of application,
the land cover with the lowest runoff potential shall be used for the
computations. In addition, there is the presumption that the site is in good
hydrologic condition (if the land use type is pasture, lawn, or park), with
good cover (if the land use type is woods), or with good hydrologic condition
and conservation treatment (if the land use type is cultivation).
         (c)   In computing pre-construction stormwater runoff, the design
engineer shall account for all significant land features and structures, such
as ponds, wetlands, depressions, hedgerows, or culverts, that may reduce pre-
construction stormwater runoff rates and volumes.
         (d)   In computing stormwater runoff from all design storms, the
design engineer shall consider the relative stormwater runoff rates and/or
volumes of pervious and impervious surfaces separately to accurately compute
the rates and volume of stormwater runoff from the site. To calculate runoff
from unconnected impervious cover, urban impervious area modifications as
described in the NRCS Technical Release 55 - Urban Hydrology for Small
Watersheds or other methods may be employed.
            (e)   If the invert of the outlet structure of a stormwater
management measure is below the flood hazard design flood elevation as defined
at N.J.A.C. 7:13, the design engineer shall take into account the effects of
tailwater in the design of structural stormwater management measures.
      (2)   Groundwater recharge may be calculated in accordance with the
following: The New Jersey Geological Survey Report GSR-32, A Method for
Evaluating Groundwater-Recharge Areas in New Jersey, incorporated herein by
reference as amended and supplemented. Information regarding the methodology is
available from the New Jersey Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual; at
the New Jersey Geological Survey website at: https://www.nj.gov/dep/nigs/price
lst/gsreport/gsr32.pdf or at New Jersey Geological and Water Survey, 29 Arctic
Parkway, PO Box 420 Mail Code 29-01, Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0420.
   (F)   Sources for technical guidance.
      (1)   Technical guidance for stormwater management measures can be found
in the documents listed below, which are available to download from the
Department’s website at: http://www.nj.gov/dep/stormwater/_bmp_manual2.htm.
         (a)   Guidelines for stormwater management measures are contained in
the New Jersey Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual, as amended and
supplemented. Information is provided on stormwater management measures such
as, but not limited to those provided in Tables 1, 2, and 3.
         (b)   Additional maintenance guidance is available on the Department’s
website at: http://www.njstormwater.org/maint_enance_guidance.htm.
      (2)   Submissions required for review by the Department should be mailed
to: The Division of Water Quality, New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection, Mail Code 401-02B, PO Box 420, Trenton, NJ 08625-0420.
   (G)   Solids and floatable materials control standards.
      (1)   Site design features identified under division (D)(6) above, or
alternative designs in accordance with division (D)(7) above, to prevent
discharge of trash and debris from drainage systems shall comply with the
following standard to control passage of solid and floatable materials through
storm drain inlets. For purposes of this division (G), SOLID AND FLOATABLE
MATERIALS means sediment, debris, trash, and other floating, suspended, or
settleable solids. For exemptions to this standard see division (G)(1)(b)
below.
         (a)   Design engineers shall use one of the following grates whenever
they use a grate in pavement or another ground surface to collect stormwater
from that surface into a storm drain or surface water body under that grate:
            1.   The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) bicycle
safe grate, which is described in Chapter 2.4 of the NJDOT Bicycle Compatible
Roadways and Bikeways Planning and Design Guidelines; or
            2.   A.   A different grate, if each individual clear space in that
grate has an area of no more than seven square inches or is no greater than
one-half inch across the smallest dimension.
               B.    Examples of grates subject to this standard include grates
in grate inlets, the grate portion (non-curb-opening portion) of combination
inlets, grates on storm sewer manholes, ditch grates, trench grates, and grates
of spacer bars in slotted drains. Examples of ground surfaces include surfaces
of roads (including bridges), driveways, parking areas, bikeways, plazas,
sidewalks, lawns, fields, open channels, and stormwater system floors used to
collect stormwater from the surface into a storm drain or surface water body.
            3.   For curb-opening inlets, including curb-opening inlets in
combination inlets, the clear space in that curb opening, or each individual
clear space if the curb opening has two or more clear spaces, shall have an
area of no more than seven square inches, or be no greater than two inches
across the smallest dimension.
         (b)   The standard in division (G)(1)(a) above does not apply:
            1.   Where each individual clear space in the curb opening in
existing curb-opening inlet does not have an area of more than nine square
inches;
            2.   A.    Where the township agrees that the standards would cause
inadequate hydraulic performance that could not practicably be overcome by
using additional or larger storm drain inlets;
               B.    Where flows from the water quality design storm as
specified in N.J.A.C. 7:8 are conveyed through any device (e.g., end of pipe
netting facility, manufactured treatment device, or a catch basin hood) that is
designed, at a minimum, to prevent delivery of all solid and floatable
materials that could not pass through one of the following:
                  (i)    A rectangular space four and five-eighths inches long
and one and one-half inch wide (this option does not apply for outfall netting
facilities); or
                  (ii )   a.   A bar screen having a bar spacing of one-half
inch.
                     b.   Note that these exemptions do not authorize any
infringement of requirements in the Residential Site Improvement Standards for
bicycle safe grates in new residential development (N.J.A.C. 5:21-4.18(b)2 and
7.4(b)l).
            3.   Where flows are conveyed through a trash rack that has
parallel bars with one inch spacing between the bars, to the elevation of the
Water Quality Design Storm as specified in N.J.A.C. 7:8; or
            4.   Where the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
determines, pursuant to the New Jersey Register of Historic Places Rules at
N.J.A.C. 7:4-7.2(c), that action to meet this standard is an undertaking that
constitutes an encroachment or will damage or destroy the New Jersey Register
listed historic property.
   (H)   Safety standards for stormwater management basins.
      (1)   This section sets forth requirements to protect public safety
through the proper design and operation of stormwater management basins. This
section applies to any new stormwater management BMP.
      (2)   The provisions of this section are not intended to preempt more
stringent municipal or county safety requirements for new or existing
stormwater management BMPs. Municipal and county stormwater management plans
and ordinances may, pursuant to their authority, require existing stormwater
management BMPs to be retrofitted to meet one or more of the safety standards
in divisions (H)(3)(a), (H)(3)(b), and (H)(3)(c) for trash racks, overflow
grates, and escape provisions at outlet structures.
      (3)   Requirements for trash racks, overflow grates and escape
provisions.
         (a)   A trash rack is a device designed to catch trash and debris and
prevent the clogging of outlet structures. Trash racks shall be installed at
the intake to the outlet from the stormwater management BMP to ensure proper
functioning of the BMP outlets in accordance with the following:
            1.   The trash rack shall have parallel bars, with no greater than
six-inch spacing between the bars.
            2.   The trash rack shall be designed so as not to adversely affect
the hydraulic performance of the outlet pipe or structure.
            3.   The average velocity of flow through a clean trash rack is not
to exceed two and one-half feet per second under the full range of stage and
discharge. Velocity is to be computed on the basis of the net area of opening
through the rack.
            4.   The trash rack shall be constructed and installed to be rigid,
durable, and corrosion resistant, and shall be designed to withstand a
perpendicular live loading of 300 pounds per square foot.
            5.   The design engineer shall consider shapes and location of
trash racks that are lower maintenance and do not impact the functionality of
the outlet structure. For example, vertical trash racks or small trash racks in
the vicinity of an orifice or weir tend to become obstructed.
         (b)   An overflow grate is designed to prevent obstruction of the
overflow structure. If an outlet structure has an overflow grate, such grate
shall meet the following requirements:
               1.   The overflow grate shall be secured to the outlet structure
but removable for emergencies and maintenance.
               2.   The overflow grate spacing shall be no less than two inches
across the smallest dimension.
               3.   The overflow grate shall be constructed and installed to be
rigid, durable, and corrosion resistant, and shall be designed to withstand a
perpendicular live loading of 300 pounds per squar foot.
               4.   The overflow grates shall be set at least three inches
above the highest expected water level as outlined in the design. If the
inclusion of the overflow grate cannot be set above the highest expected water
level in the design, a trash rack shall be specified instead.
            (c)    Stormwater management basins shall include escape provisions
as follows:
               1.   If a stormwater management BMP has an outlet structure,
escape provisions shall be incorporated in or on the structure. Escape
provisions include the installation of permanent ladders, steps, rungs, or
other features that provide easily accessible means of egress from stormwater
management BMPs. With the prior approval of the reviewing agency identified in
division (H)(3), a free-standing outlet structure may be exempted from this
requirement.
               2.    Safety ledges shall be constructed on the slopes of all
new stormwater management BMPs having a permanent pool of water deeper than two
and one-half feet. Such safety ledges shall be comprised of two steps. Each
step shall be four to six feet in width. One step shall be located
approximately two and one-half feet below the permanent water surface, and the
second step shall be located one to one and one-half feet above the permanent
water surface. See division (H)(5) below for an illustration of safety ledges
in a stormwater management BMP; and
               3.   In new stormwater management basins, the maximum interior
slope for an earthen dam, embankment, or berm shall not be steeper than three
horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   Variance or exemption from safety standards. A variance or
exemption from the safety standards for stormwater management BMPs may be
granted only upon a written finding by the appropriate reviewing agency
(Voorhees Township, Burlington County or Department) that the variance or
exemption will not constitute a threat to public safety.
      (5)   Safety ledge illustration.
   Elevation View-Basin Safety Ledge Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6e737ad9260cb71efbcf48a8788b114aa8c3d4c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6881.png]
 
   (I)   Requirements for a site development stormwater plan.
      (1)   Submission of site development stormwater plan.
         (a)   Whenever an applicant seeks municipal approval of a development
subject to this section, the applicant shall submit all of the required
components of the Checklist for the Site Development Stormwater Plan at
division (I)(3) below as part of the submission of the application for
approval.
         (b)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the project meets the
standards set forth in this section.
         (c)   The applicant shall submit 15 double-sided paper copies and one
electronic copy in PDF format of the materials listed in the checklist for site
development stormwater plans in accordance with division (I)(3) below.
      (2)   Site development stormwater plan approval. The applicant’s site
development project shall be reviewed as a part of the review process by the
municipal board or official from which municipal approval is sought. That
municipal board or official shall consult the review engineer retained by the
Planning and/or Zoning Board (as appropriate) to determine if all of the
checklist requirements have been satisfied and to determine if the project
meets the standards set forth in this section.
      (3)   Submission of site development stormwater plan. The following
information shall be required:
         (a)   Topographic base map. The reviewing engineer may require
upstream tributary drainage system information as necessary. It is recommended
that the topographic base map of the site be submitted which extends a minimum
of 200 feet beyond the limits of the proposed development, at a scale of
1"=200' or greater, showing two-foot contour intervals. The map as appropriate
may indicate the following: existing surface water drainage, shorelines, steep
slopes, soils, erodible soils, perennial or intermittent streams that drain
into or upstream of the Category One waters, wetlands and flood plains along
with their appropriate buffer strips, marshlands and other wetlands, pervious
or vegetative surfaces, existing man-made structures, roads, bearing and
distances of property lines, and significant natural and manmade features not
otherwise shown.
         (b)   Environmental site analysis. A written and graphic description
of the natural and man-made features of the site and its surroundings should be
submitted. This description should include a discussion of soil conditions,
slopes, wetlands, waterways and vegetation on the site. Particular attention
should be given to unique, unusual, or environmentally sensitive features and
to those that provide particular opportunities or constraints for development.
         (c)   Project description and site plan(s). A map (or maps) at the
scale of the topographical base map indicating the location of existing and
proposed buildings, roads, parking areas, utilities, structural facilities for
stormwater management and sediment control, and other permanent structures. The
map(s) shall also clearly show areas where alterations will occur in the
natural terrain and cover, including lawns and other landscaping, and seasonal
high ground water elevations. A written description of the site plan and
justification of proposed changes in natural conditions may also be provided.
         (d)   Land use planning and source control plan. This plan shall
provide a demonstration of how the goals and standards of divisions (C) through
(E) above are being met. The focus of this plan shall be to describe how the
site is being developed to meet the objective of controlling groundwater
recharge, stormwater quality and stormwater quantity problems at the source by
land management and source controls whenever possible.
         (e)   Stormwater management facilities map. The following information,
illustrated on a map of the same scale as the topographic base map, shall be
included:
            1.   Total area to be paved or built upon, proposed surface
contours, land area to be occupied by the stormwater management facilities and
the type of vegetation thereon, and details of the proposed plan to control and
dispose of stormwater.
            2.   Details of all stormwater management facility designs, during
and after construction, including discharge provisions, discharge capacity for
each outlet at different levels of detention and emergency spillway provisions
with maximum discharge capacity of each spillway.
         (f)   Calculations.
            1.    Comprehensive hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations
for the pre-development and post-development conditions for the design storms
specified in division (D) above.
            2.   When the proposed stormwater management control measures
depend on the hydrologic properties of soils or require a certain separation
from the seasonal high-water table, then a soils report shall be submitted. The
soils report shall be based on onsite boring logs or soil pit profiles. The
number and location of required soil borings or soil pits shall be determined
based on what is needed to determine the suitability and distribution of soils
present at the location of the control measure.
         (g)   Maintenance and repair plan. The design and planning of the
stormwater management facility shall meet the maintenance requirements of
division (J).
         (h)   Waiver from submission requirements. The municipal official or
board reviewing an application under this ordinance may, in consultation with
the township engineer, waive submission of any of the requirements in divisions
(I)(3)(a) through (f) above when it can be demonstrated that the information
requested is impossible to obtain or it would create a hardship on the
applicant to obtain and its absence will not materially affect the review
process.
   (J)   Maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Applicability. Projects subject to review as in division (A)(3)
above shall comply with the requirements of divisions (J)(2) and (J)(3) below.
      (2)   General maintenance.
         (a)   The design engineer shall prepare a maintenance plan for the
stormwater management measures incorporated into the design of a major
development.
         (b)   The maintenance plan shall contain specific preventative
maintenance tasks and schedules; cost estimates, including estimated cost of
sediment, debris, or trash removal; and the name, address, and telephone number
of the person or persons responsible for preventative and corrective
maintenance (including replacement). The plan shall contain information on BMP
location, design, ownership, maintenance tasks and frequencies, and other
details specified in Chapter 8 of the NJ BMP Manual, as well as the tasks
specific to the type of BMP, as described in the applicable chapter containing
design specifics.
         (c)   If the maintenance plan identifies a person other than the
property owner (for example, a developer, a public agency or homeowners’
association) as having the responsibility for maintenance, the plan shall
include documentation of such person’s or entity’s agreement to assume this
responsibility, or of the owner’s obligation to dedicate a stormwater
management facility to such person under an applicable ordinance or regulation.
         (d)    Responsibility for maintenance shall not be assigned or
transferred to the owner or tenant of an individual property in a residential
development or project, unless such owner or tenant owns or leases the entire
residential development or project. The individual property owner may be
assigned incidental tasks, such as weeding of a green infrastructure BMP,
provided the individual agrees to assume these tasks; however, the individual
cannot be legally responsible for all of the maintenance required. If the
person responsible for maintenance identified under division (J)(2)(b) above is
not a public agency, the maintenance plan and any future revisions based on
division (J)(2)(8) below shall be recorded upon the deed of record for each
property on which the maintenance described in the maintenance plan must be
undertaken.
         (e)   If the party responsible for maintenance identified under
division (J)(2)(c) above is not a public agency, the maintenance plan and any
future revisions based on division (J)(2)(g) below shall be recorded upon the
deed of record for each property on which the maintenance described in the
maintenance plan must be undertaken.
         (f)   Preventative and corrective maintenance shall be performed to
maintain the functional parameters (storage volume, infiltration rates, inflow/
outflow capacity, and the like) of the stormwater management measure,
including, but not limited to, repairs or replacement to the structure; removal
of sediment, debris, or trash; restoration of eroded areas; snow and ice
removal; fence repair or replacement; restoration of vegetation; and repair or
replacement of non-vegetated linings.
         (g)   The party responsible for the maintenance identified under
division (J)(2)(c) above shall perform all of the following requirements:
            1.   Maintain a detailed log of all preventative and corrective
maintenance for the structural stormwater management measures incorporated into
the design of the development, including a record of all inspections and copies
of all maintenance-related work orders;
            2.   Evaluate the effectiveness of the maintenance plan at least
once per year and adjust the plan and the deed as needed; and
            3.   Retain and make available, upon request by any public entity
with administrative, health, environmental, or safety authority over the site,
the maintenance plan and the documentation required by divisions (J)(2)(f) and
(J)(2)(g) above.
         (h)   The requirements of divisions (J)(2)(c) and (J)(2)(d) above do
not apply to stormwater management facilities that are dedicated to and
accepted by the municipality or another governmental agency, subject to all
applicable municipal stormwater general permit conditions, as issued by the
Department.
         (i)   In the event that the stormwater management facility becomes a
danger to public safety or public health, or if it is in need of maintenance or
repair, the municipality shall so notify the responsible person in writing.
Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person shall have 14 days to
effect maintenance and repair of the facility in a manner that is approved by
the municipal engineer or his or her designee. The municipality, in its
discretion, may extend the time allowed for effecting maintenance and repair
for good cause. If the responsible person fails or refuses to perform such
maintenance and repair, the municipality or county may immediately proceed to
do so and shall bill the cost thereof to the responsible person.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the municipality in which
the major development is located from requiring the posting of a performance or
maintenance guarantee in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53.
   (K)   Penalties. Any person who erects, constructs, alters, repairs,
converts, maintains, or uses any building, structure or land in violation of
this section shall be subject to the following penalties: A fine of $1,000 for
each offense.
(Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 110-07, passed 7-9-07; Am. Ord. 380-21,
passed 3-23-21)
CHAPTER 155: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 156: ESTABLISHMENT, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT OF PLANNING AND
ZONING
Section
   
156.001   Establishment and Composition of the Planning Board
   
156.002   Powers of the Planning Board
   
156.003   Organization and advisory bodies of the Planning Board
   
156.004   Establishment and composition of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
156.005   Powers of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
156.006   Annual report, expenses and costs of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
156.007   Appeals and applications to the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
156.008   Meetings of both Boards
   
156.009   Public hearings of both Boards
   
156.010   Public notice of a hearing of either Board
   
156.011   Decisions of either Board
   
156.012   Appeal of decision by either Board
   
156.013   Notice of decision for either Board
   
156.014   Applicability of requirements
   
156.015   Informal reviews
   
156.016   Submission, classification and completeness of formal applications
   
156.017   Development Review Committee, Scheduling of complete application
   
156.018   Approval procedures for change of use
   
156.019   Approval procedures for minor subdivisions, minor site plans and site
plan waivers
   
156.020   Approval procedures for temporary use
   
156.021   Approval procedures for preliminary major subdivisions and site plans
   
156.022   Approval procedures for final major subdivision and site plans
   
156.023   Approval procedures for conditional uses
   
156.024   Approval procedures for General Development Plans ("GDP")
   
156.025   Action by reviewing board; effect and duration for GDP
   
156.026   Modifications to GDP or timing schedules
   
156.027   Compliance and time limitations for certain approvals
   
156.028   Document submission requirements
   
156.029   Fees
   
156.030   Performance guaranties
   
156.031   Maintenance guaranties
   
156.032   Developer's agreement required
   
156.033   Escrows
   
156.034   Off-tract improvements
   
156.035   Administrative guidelines
   
156.036   Waivers
   
156.037   Zoning Officer; zoning permits; certificates of conformance
   
156.038   Payment of taxes
   
156.039   Return of fees paid upon withdrawal of application
   
156.040   Violations; enforcement; penalties
   
156.041   Stop-work orders
   
156.042   Amendments
   
156.043   Procedure for amendments
   
156.044   Severability, repealer and compliance with municipal land use law
 
   
156.999   Fines and penalties
§ 156.001 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF THE PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment and composition of the Planning Board. A Planning Board
is hereby created for the purposes set forth in this chapter and for such other
duties as may from time to time be assigned to it by the Township Committee.
The Planning Board shall consist of nine members and two alternates, who shall
be designated "Alternate No. 1" and "Alternate No. 2".
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Members shall be appointed according to the following classes:
         (a)   Class I - The Mayor, or in the Mayors absence, the Mayor's
designee.
         (b)   Class II - One of the officials of the township other than a
member of the Township Committee, to be appointed by the Mayor. However, if
there is an Environmental Commission, the member of the Environmental
Commission who is also a member of the Planning Board as required by N.J.S.A.
40:56A-1 shall be deemed to be the Class II Planning Board member for purposes
of this chapter in the event that there be among the Class IV or alternate
members of the Planning Board both a member of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
and a member of the Board of Education.
         (c)   Class III - A member of the Township Committee to be appointed
by it.
         (d)   Class IV - Other citizens of the township, to be appointed by
the Mayor. Members of Class IV shall hold no other municipal office, position
or employment except that one member may be a member of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment or Historic Preservation Commission, if established pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1, and one member may be a member of the Board of Education. If
there is an Environmental Commission, the member of the Environmental
Commission who is also a member of the Planning Board as required by N.J.S.A.
40:56A-1 shall be a Class IV member unless there be among the Class IV or
alternate members of the Planning Board both a member of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment and a member of the Board of Education, in which case the member
common to the Planning Board and Environmental Commission shall be deemed a
Class II member of the Planning Board. For the purposes of this section,
membership on a township board or commission whose function is advisory in
nature, and the establishment of which is discretionary and not required by
statute, shall not be considered the holding of a township office.
      (2)   Terms of members. Members and alternates of the Planning Board
existent under the prior zoning ordinance shall retain their membership and
their terms shall continue until their term would have expired under the prior
ordinance. New appointments to the Planning Board shall be for a term as
specified by N.J.S.A. 40:55D-23 and 23.1, except in the case of a vacancy
created by the resignation or removal of a member or alternate, in which case
such vacancy shall be filled by appointment as above provided for the duration
of the unexpired term.
      (3)   Members and alternates shall not participate in any hearing in
which they have, either directly or indirectly, any personal or financial
interest.
      (4)   Any member or alternate other than the Mayor, after a public
hearing if he or she requests it, may be removed by the Township Committee for
cause.
      (5)   Alternate members.
         (a)   Alternate members shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall meet
the qualifications of Class IV members.
         (b)   Alternate members may participate in discussions of the
proceedings but may not vote except in the absence or disqualification of a
regular member.
         (c)   A vote shall not be delayed to permit the voting of an absent
regular member.
         (d)   In the event that a choice must be made as to which alternate
member is to vote, Alternate No. 1 will vote.
      (6)   Substitute members. If the Planning Board lacks a quorum because
any of its regular or alternate members is prohibited from acting on a matter
due to the member's personal or financial interests therein, regular members of
the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be called upon to serve, for that matter
only, as temporary members of the Planning Board. Members of the Zoning Board
of Adjustment shall be chosen in order of seniority of continuous service to
the Board of Adjustment until there are the minimum number of members necessary
to constitute a quorum to act upon the matter. If a choice has to be made
between regular members of equal seniority, the Chairperson of the Board of
Adjustment shall make the choice.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 35-00, passed 12-28-00)
§ 156.002 POWERS OF THE PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall have the power to:
      (1)   Prepare, maintain, adopt and administer the master plan.
      (2)   Prepare, maintain, and administer the subdivision, site plan, and
zoning ordinances within this chapter and hear and decide applications made
pursuant thereto.
      (3)   Prepare, maintain, and administer the official map.
      (4)   Prepare a capital improvements program, if authorized by the
Township Committee.
      (5)   Review proposed amendments to the subdivision, site plan, and
zoning ordinances within this chapter and the official map, and make
recommendations regarding the same to the Township Committee pursuant to the
provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-26a.
      (6)   Hear and decide applications for conditional use.
      (7)   Hear and decide applications for variances and certain building
permits when in conjunction with applications for subdivision, site plan and
conditional use approval pursuant to Article 8 of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.
   (B)   The Planning Board may:
      (1)   Participate in the exercise and review of programs or plans
required by State or Federal law or regulation.
      (2)   Assemble data on a continuing basis as part of a continuous
planning process.
      (3)   Perform such other advisory duties as may be requested of it by the
Township Committee.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.003 ORGANIZATION AND ADVISORY BODIES OF THE PLANNING BOARD.
   A.   Organization.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall elect a chairperson and vice-chairperson
from one of its members of Class IV.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall select a secretary who may or may not be a
member or a municipal employee.
      (3)   The Township Committee shall make provision in its budget and
appropriate funds for the expenses of the Planning Board.
      (4)   The Planning Board may employ, or contract for, and fix the
compensation of legal counsel, other than the municipal attorney, and experts
and other staff and services as it may deem necessary, not exceeding, exclusive
of gifts or grants, the amount appropriated by the Township Committee for its
use.
      (5)   The Township Committee may establish in the Salary Ordinance a
manner of compensation and reimbursement of expenses for members and alternates
of the Planning Board.
   (B)   Advisory bodies.
      (1)   The Planning Board may make available to the Environmental Advisory
Board an informational copy of applications submitted for development, although
failure on the part of the Planning Board to make such informational copy
available to the Environmental Advisory Board shall not invalidate any hearing
or procedure.
      (2)   The Planning Board may establish a Development Review Committee.
The Development Review Committee may consist of the Administrative Officer, the
Planning Board Engineer, the Planning Board Planner, the Planning Board
Solicitor, the Construction Official, a representative of the Township Police
Department, the Township Fire Marshall, and any two members of the Planning
Board so designated by the Planning Board Chairperson.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.004 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. A Zoning Board of Adjustment is hereby established for
the purpose of interpreting the zoning provisions of this chapter, hearing
applications for appeals and variances from them, and such other duties as may
from time to time be assigned to it by the Township Committee.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Township Committee shall appoint seven members of the Zoning
Board of Adjustment and may appoint two members, who shall be designated
"Alternate No. 1" and "Alternate No. 2".
         (a)   Members and alternates of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
existent under the prior zoning ordinance shall retain their membership and
their terms shall continue until their term would have expired under the prior
ordinance.
         (b)   New appointments to the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be for
a term of four years for members and two years for alternates; except in the
case of a vacancy created by the resignation or removal of a member or
alternate, the appointment shall be for the duration of the unexpired term.
         (c)   No member of the Zoning Board of Adjustment may hold any
elective office or position within the township.
      (2)   Members and alternates shall not participate in any hearing in
which they have, either directly or indirectly, any personal or financial
interest.
      (3)   Any member or alternate may, after public hearing if he or she
requests it, be removed by the Township Committee for cause.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall organize annually and elect a
chairman and vice-chairman from its members.
      (5)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall select a secretary who may or
may not be a member or a municipal employee.
      (6)   Alternate members.
         (a)   Alternate members may participate in discussions of the
proceedings but may not vote except in the absence or disqualification of a
regular member.
         (b)   A vote shall not be delayed to permit the voting of an absent
regular member.
         (c)   In the event that a choice must be made as to which alternate
member is to vote, Alternate No. 1 shall vote.
      (7)   Substitute members. If the Zoning Board of Adjustment lacks a
quorum because any of its regular or alternate members is prohibited from
acting on a matter due the member's personal or financial interests therein,
Class IV members of the Planning Board shall be called upon to serve, for that
matter only, as temporary members of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The Class
IV members of the Planning Board shall be chosen in order of seniority of
continuous service to the Planning Board until there are the minimum number of
members necessary to constitute a quorum to act upon the matter. If a choice
has to be made between Class IV members of equal seniority, the Chairperson of
the Planning Board shall make the choice.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.005 POWERS OF THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the power to:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that
there is error in any order, requirement, decision or refusal made by an
administrative officer based on or made in the enforcement of the zoning
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Hear and decide requests for interpretation of the zoning map,
zoning provisions of this chapter, official map, or for decisions upon other
special questions upon which the Board is authorized to pass.
      (3)   Hear and decide variance requests pertaining to:
         (a)   "c" variances.
            1.   Where (A) by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or
shape of a specific piece of property, or (B) by reason of exceptional
topographic conditions or physical features uniquely affecting a specific piece
of property, or (C) by reason of an extraordinary and exceptional situation
uniquely affecting a specific piece of property or structures lawfully existing
thereon, the strict application of any regulation or the zoning provisions of
this title would result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to,
or exceptional and undue hardship upon the applicant for development of such
property, grant a variance from such strict application of such regulations or
zoning provisions so as to relieve such difficulties or hardship.
            2.   Wherein in an application or appeal relating to a specific
piece of property the purposes of the Municipal Land Use Law would be advanced
by a deviation from the regulations or zoning provisions of this title and the
benefits of the deviation would substantially outweigh any detriment, grant a
variance to allow departure from the regulations or zoning provisions of this
title; provided; however, that the fact that a proposed use is an inherently
beneficial use shall not be dispositive of a decision on a variance under this
section and provided that no variance covered by subsection 156.004(A)(3)(b)
below shall be granted under this subsection; and provided further that the
proposed development does not require approval by the Planning Board of a
subdivision, site plan or conditional use in conjunction with which the
Planning Board has power to review a request for a variance pursuant to this
chapter.
         (b)   "d" variances. In particular cases and for special reasons,
grant a variance to allow departure from the zoning provisions of this chapter
to permit:
            1.   A use or principal structure in a district restricted against
such use or principal structure.
            2.   An expansion of a non-conforming use.
            3.   Deviation from a specification or standard pertaining solely
to a conditional use.
            4.   An increase in the permitted floor area ratio.
            5.   An increase in the permitted density, except as applied to the
required lot area for a lot or lots for detached one or two dwelling unit
buildings which lot or lots are either an isolated undersized lot or lots
resulting from a minor subdivision.
            6.   A height of a principal structure which exceeds by ten (10)
feet or ten percent (10%) the maximum height permitted in the district for a
principal structure.Variances granted under this subsection shall be granted
only by affirmative vote of at least five members. No variance or other relief
may be granted under the terms of this section unless such variance or other
relief can be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and will
not substantially impair the intent and purpose of the zone plan and zoning
provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Exercise such other powers which are authorized by N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
76.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 24-00, passed 9-11-00)
§ 156.006 ANNUAL REPORT, EXPENSES AND COSTS OF THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Annual report.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall, at least once a year, review
its decisions on applications and appeals for variances and prepare and adopt
by resolution a report of its finding on the zoning provisions of this chapter
which were the subject of variance requests. The report shall contain
recommendations of the Zoning Board of Adjustment relative to amendment or
revisions to the zoning provisions of this chapter, if any. The report shall be
sent to both the Township Committee and the Planning Board.
   (B)   Expenses and costs.
      (1)   The Township Committee shall make provisions in its budget and
appropriate funds for the expenses of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may employ, or contract for, and fix
the compensation of legal counsel, other than the Township Solicitor, and
experts and other staff and services as it shall deem necessary, not exceeding,
exclusive of gifts or grants, the amount appropriated by the Township Committee
for its use.
      (3)   The Township Committee may establish in the Salary Ordinance a
manner of compensation and reimbursement of expenses for members of the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.007 APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS TO THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Appeals and applications.
      (1)   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment may be taken by any
interested party affected by any decision of the Administrative Officer of the
Township based on or made in the enforcement of the zoning provisions of this
chapter or the official map. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days by
filing a notice of appeal with the Administrative Officer, specifying the
grounds of such appeal. The Administrative Officer shall immediately transmit
to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
      (2)   A applicant may file an application for development with the Zoning
Board of Adjustment for action under any of its powers without prior
application to the Administrative Officer.
   (B)   Time for decision.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall render a decision not later
than 120 days after the date:
         (a)   An appeal is taken from the decision of the Administrative
Officer, or
         (b)   The submission of a complete application for development to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Failure of the Zoning Board of Adjustment to render a decision
within the prescribed time period or within such further time as may be
consented to by the applicant, shall constitute a decision favorable to the
applicant. If an applicant elects to submit separate consecutive applications
for "d" variance approval and site plan, subdivision or conditional use
approval, the 120 day time period for action shall apply to the application for
approval of the "d" variance, and the time period for granting or denying any
subsequent approval shall be as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Effect of approval. The rights granted to an applicant upon approval
of variances shall be effective
from the date of approval for a period of one year, unless the applicant has
commenced such use within such one year period. Rights granted shall expire
upon the expiration of such one year period in the event the applicant has not
commenced such use, or upon the abandonment of the variance.
   (D)   Modification of appeal. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the action, order, requirement,
decision, interpretation or determination appealed from and to that end have
all the powers of the Administrative Officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (E)   Stay of proceedings by appeal; exception. An appeal to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action in
respect to which the decision appealed from was made unless the Administrative
Officer certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with
him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed other than by order of the Superior Court upon notice to
the Administrative Officer and on due cause shown.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.008 MEETINGS OF BOTH BOARDS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of both the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall be fixed for the entire calendar year and set for a certain
time and place. Regular meetings shall be scheduled no less than once a month
and shall be held as scheduled unless cancelled for lack of application for
development to process.
   (B)   Special meetings may be held at the call of the Chairman or on the
request of any two Board members, and which shall be held on notice to its
members and the public in accordance with all legal requirements.
   (C)   No action shall be taken at any meeting without a quorum being
present, said quorum to be the majority of the full authorized membership of
the Board.
   (D)   All actions shall be taken by a majority vote of the members of the
Board at the meeting except as otherwise required by N.J.S.A. 40:55-D et seq. A
member of the Board who was absent for one or more of the meetings at which a
hearing was held shall be eligible to vote on a matter upon which the hearing
was conducted provided, however, that such Board member certifies in writing to
the Board that he or she has read a transcript or listened to a recording of
all of the hearings from which he or she was absent.
   (E)   All regular and special meetings shall be open to the public and
notice of all such meetings shall be given in accordance with state
requirements.
   (F)   Minutes of every regular and special meeting shall be kept and shall
include the names of the persons appearing and addressing the Board and of the
persons appearing by attorney, the action taken by the Board, the findings, if
any, made by it and reasons therefor. The minutes shall thereafter be made
available for public inspection during normal business hours at the office of
the Administrative Officer. Any interested party shall have the right to compel
production of the minutes for use as evidence in any legal proceedings
concerning the subject matter of such minutes. Such interested party shall be
charged a reasonable fee for the reproduction of the minutes as established by
ordinance adopted annually by the Township Committee.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.009 PUBLIC HEARINGS OF BOTH BOARDS.
   (A)   The Planning Board or the Zoning Board of Adjustment, as the case may
be, shall hold a hearing on each application for development. Each Board shall
make rules governing such hearings.
   (B)   Any maps and documents for which approval is sought at a hearing shall
be on file and available for public inspection at least ten days before the
date of the hearing during normal business hours in the office of the
Administrative Officer. The applicant may produce other documents, records, or
testimony at the hearing to substantiate, clarify, or supplement the previously
filed maps and documents.
   (C)   The officer presiding at the hearing or such person as he may
designate shall have the power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant evidence,
including witnesses and documents presented by the parties, and the provisions
of the County and Municipality Investigations Law (C. 2A:67A-1 et seq.) shall
apply.
   (D)   The testimony of all witnesses relating to an application for
development shall be taken under oath or affirmation by the presiding officer,
and the right of cross-examination shall be permitted to all interested parties
through their attorneys, if represented, or directly, if not represented,
subject to the discretion of the presiding officer and reasonable limitations
as to time and number of witnesses.
   (E)   A verbatim recording shall be made of every hearing. The recording of
the proceedings shall be made either by stenographic, mechanical or electrical
means. The township shall furnish a transcript or duplicate recording in lieu
thereof on request to any interested party at his or her expense, provided that
the charge for a transcript shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted in
N.J.S.A. 2A:11-15. Each transcript shall be certified in writing by the
transcriber to be accurate.
   (F)   If an applicant desires a certified court reporter, the costs of
taking testimony and transcribing it and providing a copy of the transcript to
the township or court shall be at the expense of the applicant, who shall also
arrange for the attendance by the reporter. All costs for transcription of the
record before the applicable Board shall be the entire and sole obligation of
the applicant or appellant, whichever requests the transcript. The obligation
to obtain and pay for such transcript shall be solely that of the applicant or
appellant who requests the transcript.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.010 PUBLIC NOTICE OF A HEARING OF EITHER BOARD.
   (A)   Public notice of a hearing shall be given by the applicant for the
following applications for development:
      (1)   Any request for a variance.
      (2)   Any request for conditional use approval.
      (3)   Any request for issuance of a permit to build within the bed of a
mapped street or public drainageway or on a lot not abutting a street.
      (4)   Any request for minor or major site plan and/or subdivision
approval.
      (5)   Any request for amendment to preliminary approval of a major
subdivision or preliminary approval of a major site plan, or change of use.
      (6)   Any request for approval of a general development plan.
      (7)   Any application for a site plan waiver.
      (8)   Any application for appeal to the Zoning Board from the
determination or decision of the Administrative Officer.
      (9)   Any hearing before either Board on remand of a court case.
   (B)   The Administrative Officer or his designee shall notify the applicant,
at least two weeks prior to the public hearing at which the application will be
discussed, of the date of such public hearing. Notice of a hearing requiring
public notice shall be given by the applicant at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing in the following manner:
      (1)   By publication in the official newspaper of the township, if there
is one, or in a newspaper of general circulation in the township.
      (2)   By notice to all owners of real property located in the state and
within 200 feet in all
directions of the property which is the subject of the hearing, as such owners
are shown in the current tax duplicate, provided that this requirement shall be
deemed satisfied by notice to the (a) condominium association, in the case of
any unit owner whose unit has a unit above or below it, or (b) horizontal
property regime, in the case of any co-owner whose apartment has an apartment
above or below it. Notice shall be given by serving a copy on the property
owner, as shown on the current tax duplicate, or his agent in charge of the
property or by mailing a copy thereof by certified mail to the property owner
at his address as shown on the current tax duplicate. It is not required that a
return receipt is obtained as notice is deemed complete upon mailing.
      (3)   Notice to partnership owner may be made by service to any partner.
Notice to a corporate owner may be made by service upon its president, vice
president, secretary or other person authorized by appointment or by law to
accept service on behalf of the corporation. Notice to a condominium
association, horizontal property regime, community trust or homeowner's
association, because of its ownership of common elements or areas located
within 200 feet of the property which is the subject of the public hearing, may
be made in the same manner as to a corporation without further notice to unit
owners, co-owners, or homeowners on account of such common elements or areas.
      (4)   To the clerk of any adjoining municipality or municipalities when
the application for development involves property located within 200 feet of
said municipality or municipalities. Notice shall be given by personal service
or certified mail.
      (5)   To the Camden County Planning Board when the application for
development involves property adjacent to an existing county road or proposed
road shown on the County Official Map or on the County Master Plan, adjoining
other county land or situated within 200 feet of a municipal boundary. Notice
shall be given by personal service or certified mail.
      (6)   To the Commissioner of Transportation of the State of New Jersey
when the property abuts a state highway. Notice shall be given by personal
service or certified mail.
      (7)   To the State Planning Commission when the application for
development involves property which exceeds 150 acres or 500 dwelling units, in
which case the notice shall include a copy of any maps or documents required to
be filed with the township.
      (8)   Notice of hearings on applications for approval of a subdivision or
a site plan requiring public notice pursuant to subsection (A) of this section
shall be given to public utilities, cable television companies or local
utilities which possess a right-of-way or easement within the township and
which have registered with the township in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq. Notice shall be given by personal service or certified mail to the person
whose name and address appears on the registration form.
   (C)   Upon the written request of an applicant, the Administrative Officer
shall, within seven days, make and certify a list from the current tax
duplicates of names and addresses of owners within the township to whom the
applicant is required to give notice. In addition, the Administrative Officer
or his designee shall include on the list the names, addresses and positions of
those persons who, not less than seven days prior to the date on which the
applicant requested the list, have registered to receive notice pursuant to
subsection B.8. of this section. The applicant shall be entitled to rely upon
the information contained in such list, and failure to give notice to any owner
or to any public utility, cable television company, or local utility not on the
list shall not invalidate any hearing or proceeding. A sum not to exceed $0.25
per name, or $10.00, whichever, is greater, may be charged for such list.
   (D)   The applicant shall file an affidavit of proof of service with the
Planning Board or the Zoning Board of Adjustment, as the case may be, no later
than five days prior to the hearing date.
   (E)   The notice shall state the date, time and place of the hearing, the
nature of the matters to be considered, an identification of the property
proposed for development by street address, if any, or by reference to lot and
block numbers as shown on the current tax duplicate in the Township Tax
Assessor's office, and the location and times at which any maps and documents
for which approval is sought are available for inspection.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.011 DECISIONS OF EITHER BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall include findings of fact and conclusions of law based
thereon in each decision on any application for development and shall reduce
the decision to writing.
   (B)   The Board may provide such written decision and findings and
conclusions of law either on the date of the meeting at which the Board grants
or denies approval or, within 45 days of such meeting, by the adoption of a
resolution of memorialization setting forth the decision and findings and
conclusions of the Board.
   (C)   Failure of a motion to approve an application for development to
receive the number of votes required for approval shall be deemed an action
denying the application. Any action resulting from the failure of a motion to
approve the application shall be memorialized by resolution as provided above.
   (D)   The adoption of a resolution of memorialization pursuant to this
subsection shall not be construed to alter the applicable time period for
rendering a decision on the application for development. Such resolution shall
be adopted by a vote of the majority of the Board members who voted for the
action previously taken, and no other member shall vote thereon. The vote of
such a resolution shall be deemed to be a memorialization of an action taken by
the Board and not to be an action of the Board. If the Board fails to so adopt
a resolution, any interested party may apply to the Superior Court in a summary
manner for an order in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-10(g)(2).
   (E)   Whenever a memorialization is adopted, the date of such adoption shall
constitute the date of the decision for purposes of the mailings, filings, and
publications specified in §
156.013 of this chapter.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.012 APPEAL OF DECISION BY EITHER BOARD.
   All appeals of decisions made by the Planning Board or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall be taken directly to the Superior Court of New Jersey and not
to the Voorhees Township Committee.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.013 NOTICE OF DECISION FOR EITHER BOARD.
   (A)   Notice of any decision of the Planning Board or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment when acting upon an application for development and any decisions of
the Township Committee when acting upon an appeal shall be given in the
following manner:
      (1)   A copy of the decision shall be mailed by the municipal agency
within ten days of the date of the decision to the applicant or appellant or,
if represented, then to his attorney, without separate charge. A copy of the
decision shall also be mailed within ten days to any interested party who has
requested it and who has paid the required fee.
      (2)   A brief notice of the decision shall be published in the official
newspaper of the township. Such publications shall be arranged by the Secretary
of the Planning Board, the Secretary of the Zoning Board of Adjustment or the
Township Clerk, as the case may be, without separate charge to the applicant.
The notice shall be sent to the official newspaper for publication within ten
days of the date of the decision.
      (3)   A copy of the decision shall also be filed in the office of the
Administrative Officer, who shall make a copy of such filed decision available
to any interested party upon payment of a reasonable fee and available for
public inspection at the office during business hours.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.014 APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision review. All subdivisions are subject to the review
procedures specified herein.
   (B)   Site plan review.
      (1)   Any change of use is subject to site plan review and approval.
      (2)   Any excavation, removal of soil, clearing of a site or placing of
any fill on lands contemplated for development is subject to site plan review
and approval.
      (3)   No construction permit shall be issued for any new structure or use
or for an addition, reduction, enlargement or other alteration to an existing
structure, including accessory structures, until a site plan has been reviewed
and approved by the appropriate reviewing board.
   (C)   Change of use review. No zoning permit or certificate of conformance
shall be issued for any change of use of an existing structure until an
application for change of use has been approved by the Planning Board.
   (D)   Conditional use review. Before a construction permit or certificate of
conformance shall be issued for any conditional use as permitted by this
chapter, application shall be made to the Planning Board. The review by the
Planning Board of a conditional use shall include any required site plan review
pursuant to this chapter. Public notice and a hearing shall be required as
stipulated by this chapter.
   (E)   Exception. A construction permit for a single-family detached dwelling
unit or a two-family dwelling unit and/or their accessory building(s) on a
legally subdivided existing lot shall not require site plan approval.
   (F)   Site plan waiver. The reviewing board may waive site plan approval
requirements if the construction or alteration or change of occupancy or use
does not affect existing circulation, drainage, relationship of buildings to
each other, landscaping, buffering, lighting and other considerations of site
plan review. The applicant must specifically apply for such waiver and pay all
required fees with respect to such application.
   (G)   Governmental Development. The Township Committee and all state, county
and municipal public agencies, including but not limited to all housing,
parking, highway, special district or other authorities, and all redevelopment
agencies, local school boards and regional school boards shall submit to the
Planning Board for review and recommendation all plans and materials with
respect to any capital improvement action necessitating the expenditure of
public funds. Such review and recommendation shall be with respect to the
Master Plan of the township and the requirements of the zone in which the
project is to be located; provided, however, that with respect to public
schoolhouses constructed pursuant to N.J.S.A. 18A:18A-16, the review and
recommendations of the Planning Board shall not include review of bulk
requirements for which the regulations and determinations of the Bureau of
Facility Planning Services of the Department of Education shall control. No
action shall be taken by the township or any other public agency having
jurisdiction over the subject matter of such capital improvement action until
the recommendations of the Planning Board are issued; provided, however, that
the failure of the Planning Board to make such recommendations within 45 days
after the action is referred to the Planning Board for review shall be deemed
an approval of the township's or other public agency's action(s) as is. Nothing
contained in this §
156.014(G) shall be deemed to waive the rights of the township pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 18A:18A-16 or to waive or repeal the provisions of §§
152.151 through
152.154 of the Township Code.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.015 INFORMAL REVIEWS.
   (A)   Applicability. Nothing in this section shall be considered mandatory
but the procedures provided
for herein are recommended for the purpose of expediting the review process and
reducing development costs.
   (B)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   Any applicant may meet with the Administrative Officer or his/her
designee without the payment of any fees and without obligation.
      (2)   A pre-application conference may be used to provide the applicant
with an overview of the substantive and procedural aspects of the development
review process, to provide insight as to the acceptability of the proposed
plan, and to offer suggestions for the improvement of said plan.
      (3)   The applicant may be required to secure an appointment with the
Administrative Officer in advance of the pre-application conference and to
submit a sketch plan of the proposed application. The conference shall be held
within 14 days of requesting an appointment unless the Administrative Officer
is unavailable because of illness, vacation, or similar reason.
      (4)   For the purpose of the pre-application conference only, the sketch
plan need not be drawn to scale nor be prepared by a licensed engineer,
surveyor, architect, landscape architect, or planner but shall contain
sufficient information from a tax map or other source to enable the
Administrative Officer to determine the suitability of the proposal in relation
to the standards of this chapter.
      (5)   The pre-application conference is a good-faith meeting between the
applicant and the Administrative Officer. Nothing discussed at the conference
shall be binding upon either party or upon the Planning Board.
   (C)   Concept plan review.
      (1)   An applicant for site plan, subdivision or general development plan
approval or an applicant having a particular question which cannot be resolved
at a pre-application conference may request an informal concept plan review
before the Planning Board. In addition, the applicant may request to have the
concept plan reviewed by the Development Review Committee, as listed in §
156.017 below.
      (2)   Standards for the concept plan.
         (a)   The concept plan shall contain sufficient detail to enable the
reviewing officials to determine compliance with this chapter, including the
area of all proposed lots and buildings and any dimensions necessary to
determine zoning compliance.
         (b)   Roadway and street widths shall be noted but fully engineered
plans for street, drainage, and other utility or infrastructure systems shall
not be required.
         (c)   The required number of concept plans to be submitted by the
applicant shall be determined by the Administrative Officer, but in no case
shall be fewer than 24 plans.
      (3)   The applicant shall be required to submit application fees for an
informal concept review before the Planning Board, however, the applicant shall
only be required to post escrow fees for the review services of the township's
professional consultants if such review is so requested by the applicant. At
the conclusion of the concept review process, any unexpended escrow fees will
be returned.
      (4)   An applicant desiring to have a concept plan informally reviewed by
the Planning Board shall so notify the Secretary of the Planning Board, which
notice must be received no later than 14 days prior to the meeting of the
Planning Board at which the review will take place. The Secretary of the
Planning Board shall notify the applicant of the date, time and place which has
been scheduled by the Planning Board for the informal review.
      (5)   An applicant desiring to have a concept plan informally reviewed by
the Development Review Committee shall so notify the Administrative Officer.
The Administrative Officer will either schedule the applicant for a regularly
scheduled Development Review Committee meeting (if the concept plan is
submitted at least three weeks prior to the regularly scheduled Development
Review Committee meeting), or a specially called meeting may be set by the
Administrative Officer within three weeks of the concept plan submission if a
mutually agreeable time may be established by all parties.
      (6)   Nothing in the concept review process shall be binding upon either
the applicant, committee members, or the Planning Board.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.016 SUBMISSION, CLASSIFICATION, AND COMPLETENESS OF FORMAL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All formal applications for approval, including minor subdivisions and
site plans, preliminary or final major subdivisions and site plans, general
development plans, change of use applications, and conceptual use plans, shall
be submitted with forms provided by the Administrative Officer. The
Administrative Officer shall also provide the applicant with a copy of the
checklist for completeness which is contained in
Chapter 158, and a copy of the environment impact statement requirements, which
are set forth in §
158.04, and a copy of the sustainable development statement requirements, which
are set forth in §
158.05. The completed application forms shall be accompanied by all required
plans, supporting documentation, application fees and required escrow fees.
   (B)   Submission standards.
      (1)   Plans and supporting documentation must contain all information
herein required for the type of approval requested. Where there is a question
as to classification of the plan, the applicant may seek advice from the
Administrative Officer. Failure to provide all required information will result
in the plan being declared incomplete.
      (2)   Twenty copies of all plans and supporting documentation (unless a
lesser or larger number, including those copies necessary such that the members
of the Environmental Commission shall receive sufficient copies in accordance
with § 32.034 of the Township Code, is requested by the Administrative Officer)
and the completed application forms shall be submitted by the applicant to the
Administrative Officer, whereupon the Administrative Officer or his or her
representative shall date stamp the plans upon receipt. This date shall be
considered the official submission date.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application, the Administrative Officer shall
screen the material and determine completeness relative to the details required
by the appropriate development checklist in this chapter. The Administrative
Officer may also review the application with the reviewing board engineer or
such other parties as the Administrative Officer may deem appropriate. The
Administrative Officer shall thereafter either determine the application to be
incomplete or determine that the application is substantially complete.
      (1)   Should the Administrative Officer determine that the application is
incomplete, the reasons for such determination shall be specified in writing to
the applicant, and an appropriately revised plan may thereafter be submitted to
the Administrative Officer as in the first instance.
      (2)   If the Administrative Officer determines the application to be
substantially complete, the Administrative Officer shall schedule it as
follows:
         (a)   If complete with major revisions needed, the Administrative
Officer shall notify the applicant in writing of the date revised plans must be
resubmitted for the application to be scheduled for the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Development Review Committee.
         (b)   If complete with minor revisions needed, the Administrative
Officer shall state the date revised plans must be resubmitted by the applicant
for the application to be scheduled for the next regularly scheduled
Development Review Committee meeting for which space is available on the
agenda. In no case shall action be delayed for longer than the period
prescribed by the Municipal Land Use Law unless the applicant has waived the
time limits in writing or orally when the waiver is recorded by means of an
electronic recording device.
         (c)   If complete with no revisions needed, the Administrative Officer
shall schedule the application for the next regularly scheduled Development
Review Committee for which space is available on the agenda. In no case shall
action be delayed for longer than the period prescribed by the Municipal Land
Use Law unless the applicant has waived the time limits in writing or orally
when the waiver is recorded by means of an electronic recording.
   (D)   The following certifications are required before an application is
heard by the Development Review Committee or the reviewing board:
      (1)   All taxes due to the township on the property for which application
is made must be paid in full. Any outstanding tax liens held by the township
must be paid in full.
      (2)   Sufficient monies are in the escrow account to cover the cost of
professional reviews.
      (3)   Where applicable, the applicant shall submit a certification at the
time of the Development Review Committee meeting that the plan has been
submitted for review by appropriate outside agencies such as the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection and Energy in the case of potential
wetlands or stream encroachment, the Camden County Board of Health where septic
systems are proposed, the Camden County Planning Board when the proposal has
frontage on a county road, the New Jersey Department of Transportation when the
proposal has frontage on a state highway, and any other agency as may be
directed by the Administrative Officer. A final determination by these agencies
shall not be required for action by the Development Review Committee or the
Planning Board, but any action taken shall be conditional upon the approval of
these agencies.
   (E)   Special submission for "d" variance applications. In all applications
for variances pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70d, the applicant and owner of the
property, if other than the applicant, shall each submit a Contribution
Disclosure Statement completed by the applicant and the owner and, if the
applicant and/or the owner is other than an individual, all persons who are
subject to disclosure pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-48.1 or 40:55D-48.2, and all
professionals who apply for or provide testimony, plans, or reports in support
of the application and who have an enforceable proprietary interest in the
property or development which is the subject of the application or whose fee in
whole or part is contingent upon the outcome of the application. In addition,
during the pendency of the application process until final approval is granted,
any applicant for a variance pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70d shall amend all
required Contribution Disclosure Statements to include continuing disclosure of
all Contributions within the scope of the disclosure requirement above. All
Contribution Disclosure Statements shall become part of the application and
shall be available for public inspection by any member of the public.
   (F)   Failure to deem application complete. If, within 45 days of the
application's official submission date, the Administrative Officer neither
certifies to the applicant that the application is complete nor notifies the
applicant in writing that the application has been determined to be incomplete,
then the application shall be considered certified complete and the period for
action by the Board shall commence.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 35-00, passed 12-28-00; Am. Ord. 277-16,
passed 3-28-16)
§ 156.017 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Prior to being heard by the Planning Board and/or the Zoning Board, as
the case may be, all applications whether for preliminary, final, general
development plan, conditional use, or change of use approval shall be presented
to the Development Review Committee for review.
   (B)   Conduct of the Development Review Committee meeting.
      (1)   The Development Review Committee meeting is a working session
between the Committee and the applicant. The meeting is used to provide the
applicant with a comprehensive review of his or her application, to provide
insight as to the deficiencies of the plan and to offer suggestions and
recommendations for the improvement of said plan, to analyze the application to
help in determining completeness, and to comment on the acceptability of the
proposed plan. It is not a public hearing and need not be advertised. It is not
a formal review, and no minutes will be kept nor action taken. The meeting
shall be chaired by the Administrative Officer.
      (2)   Attendance by the applicant and/or his representatives is not
mandatory but is strongly encouraged.
      (3)   The members of the Development Review Committee will review an
application and will offer comments to the applicant. The Administrative
Officer and/or his/her representative will prepare a report of all the
outstanding review issues that remain to be addressed by the applicant.
   (C)   Upon completion of review of an application by the Development Review
Committee, the application shall be scheduled before the applicable reviewing
board.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.018 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR CHANGE OF USE.
   (A)   A zoning permit and certificate of conformance must be obtained for
every change of use of any non-residential premises, whether due to the sale of
the entire premises or change in tenant or occupant of all or any portion of
the premises, unless the new owner/tenant/occupant will continue the exact same
use or extremely similar to the immediate prior use.
   (B)   The applicant must comply with §
156.010 of this chapter regarding requirements for notice of public hearings.
   (C)   In order for the reviewing board to determine if the existing site
conditions will support the new use, the applicant must submit along with the
change of use application, at a minimum, a copy of the most recently approved
site plan for the property. In the case where an older site has never received
site plan review approval and no changes are proposed, then a current survey
must be submitted. The survey shall indicate the property boundaries, all
structures, fencing, parking spaces, driveway aisles, drainage basins,
lighting, landscaping, etc.
   (D)   The Planning Board may waive the requirement for a full site plan
review submission if the construction or alteration or change of occupancy or
use does not affect existing circulation, drainage, relationship of buildings
to each other, landscaping, buffering, lighting and other considerations of
site plan review. The applicant must comply with §
156.019 below for any request for a site plan waiver.
   (E)   The Planning Board will then conduct a public hearing on the proposed
change of use application. The applicant will be responsible to clearly state
all aspects of the proposed use of the property.
   (F)   The reviewing board shall take action on a change of use application
within 45 days after the application has been certified complete or within such
further time as may be consented to by the applicant. The reviewing board will
make a final determination on the application and plan based on the testimony
provided to the reviewing board. Failure of the reviewing board to act within
the prescribed time period shall constitute approval of the application.
   (G)   The reviewing board may condition a change of use approval upon
compliance with any reasonable condition not in violation with the terms of
this chapter or other applicable local, state, or federal law.
   (H)   Effect of change of use approval. The rights granted to an applicant
pursuant to change of use approval, whether conditional or otherwise, shall
continue for a period of one year, unless the applicant has commenced such use
prior to the expiration of one year.
   (I)   A zoning permit will not be issued for the new use until all
conditions of any reviewing board approval have been completed, the plan has
been signed by the board engineer and secretary, and a signed copy has been
submitted to the Zoning Officer.
   (J)   A zoning permit and certificate of conformance will not be issued for
the use or occupancy of the premises until all site conditions are in
conformance with the current site plan approval and Title 15.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.019 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS, MINOR SITE PLANS AND SITE
PLAN WAIVERS.
   (A)   The applicant must comply with §
156.010 of this chapter regarding requirements for notice of a public hearing.
   (B)   The reviewing board shall take action on minor subdivisions, minor
site plan and/or site plan waiver applications within 45 days after the
application has been certified complete or within such further time as may be
consented to by the applicant. Failure of the reviewing board to act within the
prescribed time period shall constitute approval of the application.
   (C)   Minor subdivisions, minor site plans and/or site plan waivers do not
require preliminary approval and may be voted upon for final action by the
reviewing board. The reviewing board may condition approval upon compliance
with any reasonable condition not in violation with the terms of this chapter
or other applicable local, state or federal law.
   (D)   When a minor subdivision, minor site plan or site plan waiver is
approved by the Board, at least ten prints of the plat, plan or deed
descriptions shall be submitted to the Board by the applicant to be signed by
the Chairman and Secretary of the Board. If the minor subdivision, minor site
plan or site plan waiver application is denied by the Board, the Secretary of
the Board shall notify the applicant of such denial and forward the applicant a
copy of the resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter, setting forth
the reasons for the denial.
   (E)   Effect of minor subdivision approval.
      (1)   The approval of a minor subdivision shall expire 190 days from the
date of approval unless within such period a plat conforming to all conditions
of approval is filed in conformity with the provisions of the Map Filing Law,
N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq., or a deed clearly describing the approved minor
subdivision is filed by the applicant with the County Recording Officer, the
Township Engineer, and the Township Tax Assessor as required by N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-1 et seq.
      (2)   The zoning requirements and general terms and conditions, whether
conditional or otherwise, upon which minor subdivision approval was granted,
shall not be changed for a period of two years after the date of minor
subdivision approval, provided the approved minor subdivision shall have been
duly recorded as provided in this subsection.
      (3)   If the applicant proves to the reasonable satisfaction of the Board
that he or she was barred or prevented, directly or indirectly, from proceeding
with the development because of delays in obtaining legally required approvals
from other government entities and that he or she applied promptly for and
diligently pursued the approvals, the Board either:
         (a)   Shall grant an extension of the approval period not to exceed
one year. The applicant shall apply for this extension before: (1) what would
otherwise be the expiration date, or (2) the 91st day after the applicant
receives the last legally required approval from the other governmental
entities, whichever occurs later; or
         (b)   May extend the 190 day period for filing a minor subdivision
plat or deed pursuant to subsection §
156.019(C) above. The length of the extension shall be equal to the period of
delay caused by the wait for the required approvals, as determined by the
Board. The applicant may apply for the extension either before or after what
would otherwise be the expiration date.
   (F)   Effect of minor site plan approval. The zoning requirements and
general terms and conditions, whether conditional or otherwise, upon which
minor site plan approval was granted, shall not be changed for a period of two
years after the date of minor site plan approval. If the applicant proves to
the reasonable satisfaction of the Board that he or she was barred or
prevented, directly or indirectly, from proceeding with the development because
of delays in obtaining legally required approvals from other government
entities and that he or she applied promptly for and diligently pursued the
approvals, the Board shall grant an extension of the approval period not to
exceed one year. An applicant shall apply for this extension before: (1) what
would otherwise be the expiration date, or (2) the 91st day after the date on
which the applicant receives the last of the legally required approvals from
the other governmental entities, whichever occurs later.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.020 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR TEMPORARY USE.
   (A)   Under certain circumstances, the Zoning Board may determine that the
best interests of the township and its residents can be served if certain uses,
which are otherwise prohibited by the provisions of
Chapter 152 of this ULDO, are permitted but only as a temporary basis for a
limited duration.
   (B)   No temporary use permit may be issued unless the applicant establishes
to the satisfaction of the Zoning Board the following:
      (1)   Such use will not have a detrimental effect upon the uses of land
and activities permitted in the zone.
      (2)   Such use will contribute materially to the welfare of the community
under conditions peculiar to the time and place involved.
   (C)   Under these conditions and subject to all procedures for change of use
set forth in §
156.018 above, the Zoning Board may issue a temporary use permit for a period
not to exceed two years, such period to be extended not more than once for an
additional period of two years upon a finding by the Zoning Board that
subsections (B)(1) and (2) above have been satisfied or that the welfare of the
community will be served by the issuance of such permit.
   (D)   Applications for temporary use permits shall be made to the Zoning
Officer, and notice shall be given in accordance with §
156.010 above. An application fee as established annually by the Township
Committee shall be paid to the Zoning Officer with applications for temporary
use permits.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 956-99, passed 11-8-99)
§ 156.021 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR PRELIMINARY MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS AND SITE
PLANS.
   (A)   The applicant must comply with §
156.010 of this chapter regarding requirements for notice of a public hearing.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall take action on a preliminary major site plan
application involving ten acres of land or less and ten dwelling units or less
and/or a preliminary major subdivision application involving ten lots or less
within 45 days after the application has been certified complete or within such
further time as may be consented to by the applicant. Provided, however, that
the Planning Board shall take action on a preliminary major site plan or
subdivision application which includes a request for relief pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55-D-60 within 120 days after the application has been certified
complete or within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant.
Failure of the Planning Board to act within the prescribed time period shall
constitute approval of the application.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall take action on a preliminary major site plan
application involving more than ten acres of land or more than ten dwelling
units and/or a preliminary major subdivision application involving more than
ten lots within 95 days after the application has been certified complete or
within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant. Provided,
however, that the Planning Board shall take action on a preliminary major site
plan or subdivision application which includes a request for relief pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-60 within 120 days after the application has been certified
complete or within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant.
Failure of the Planning Board to act within the prescribed time period shall
constitute approval of the application.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall take action on a preliminary
major site plan or subdivision application which includes a request for relief
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70d. within 120 days after the application has been
certified complete or within such further time as may be consented to by the
applicant. In the event that the applicant elects to submit separate
consecutive applications, the aforesaid provision shall apply to the
application for approval of the variance. The period for granting or denying
any subsequent approval shall be as otherwise provided in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq. Failure of the Zoning Board of Adjustment to act within the prescribed
time period shall constitute approval of the application.
   (E)   The Board may condition preliminary major subdivision or site plan
approval upon compliance with any reasonable condition not in violation with
the terms of this chapter or other applicable local, state, or federal law.
   (F)   When a preliminary major subdivision or site plan is approved by the
Board, at least ten prints of the plat or plan shall be submitted to the Board
by the applicant to be signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the Board and
the Township Engineer. If the preliminary major subdivision or site plan
application is denied by the Board, the Secretary of the Board shall notify the
applicant of such denial and forward the applicant a copy of the resolution
adopted in accordance with this chapter, setting forth the reasons for the
denial.
   (G)   Effect of preliminary major subdivision or site plan approval.
      (1)   The preliminary approval of a subdivision or site plan shall,
except as provided in subsection (d) of this section, confer the following
rights for a three year period from the date on which the resolution of
preliminary approval is adopted:
         (a)   That the general terms and conditions on which preliminary
approval was granted shall not be changed, including but not limited to use
requirements; layout and design standards for streets, curbs and sidewalks; lot
size; yard dimensions, and off-tract improvements; and, in the case of a site
plan, any requirements peculiar to site plan approval pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-41, except that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the township
from modifying by ordinance such general terms and conditions of preliminary
approval as related to public health and safety;
         (b)   That the applicant may submit an application for final approval
on or before the expiration date of preliminary approval the whole or a section
or sections of the preliminary subdivision plat or site plan, as the case may
be; and
         (c)   That the applicant may apply for, and the Planning Board may
grant, an extension of the preliminary approval for additional periods of at
least one year but not to exceed a total extension of two years, provided that
if the design standards have been revised by ordinance, such revised standards
may govern.
         (d)   In the case of a subdivision of, or site plan for, an area of 50
acres or more, the Planning Board may grant the rights referred to in
subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this section for a reasonable period of
greater than three years, but not more than seven years. The applicant may
apply for thereafter, and the Planning Board may thereafter grant an extension
of the preliminary approval for not more than three additional one year
periods, provided that if the design standards have been revised by ordinance,
such revised standards may govern. The granting of this extended approval
period shall be based upon the Planning Board's consideration of such factors
as:
            (1)   The total number of dwelling units and/or square footage of
non-residential area proposed;
            (2)   Economic conditions; and
            (3)   The comprehensiveness of the development.
         (e)   Whenever the Planning Board grants an extension of preliminary
approval pursuant to §
156.021(G)(1)(c) or §
156.021(G)(1)(d) of this section and preliminary approval has expired before
the date on which the extension is granted, the extension shall begin on what
would otherwise be the expiration date. The applicant may apply for the
extension either before or after what would otherwise be the expiration date.
         (f)   The Planning Board shall grant an extension of preliminary
approval for a period determined by the Board but not exceeding one year from
what would otherwise be the expiration date, if the applicant proves to the
reasonable satisfaction of the Board that he or she was barred or prevented,
directly or indirectly, from proceeding with the development because of delays
in obtaining legally required approvals from other governmental entitles and
that the applicant applied promptly for and diligently pursued the required
approvals. An applicant shall apply for the extension before (1) what would
otherwise be the expiration date of preliminary approval or (2) the 91st day
after the applicant receives the last legally required approval from other
governmental entities, whichever occurs later.
   (H)   Concurrent preliminary and final subdivision and site plan approval.
      (1)   The Planning Board may, as its discretion, approve a request from
an applicant to concurrently consider preliminary and final subdivision and/or
site plan approval provided that:
         (a)   The application does not involve the construction of a new
street.
         (b)   The application involves the creation of ten or fewer lots.
         (c)   The total square footage of non-residential construction
involves less than 25,000 square feet of floor area and less than 30,000 square
feet of impervious surface.
      (2)   The approval procedures for final approval shall be followed by the
Planning Board as noted in §
156.022 below.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.022 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR FINAL MAJOR SUBDIVISION AND SITE PLANS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall take action on a final major site plan or
subdivision application within 45 days after the application has been certified
complete or within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant.
Failure of the Planning Board to act within the prescribed time period shall
constitute approval of the application.
   (B)   The Planning Board may condition approval upon compliance with any
reasonable condition not in violation with the terms of this ordinance or other
applicable local, state, or federal law.
   (C)   All final plans shall be revised to incorporate any conditions of
approval and, when all such conditions have been met, ten copies of the revised
final plat shall be submitted to the Administrative Officer to be signed by the
Chairman and Secretary of the Planning Board.
   (D)   Final approval of a major subdivision shall expire 95 days from the
date of signing of the plats unless within such period the plat shall have been
filed by the applicant with the County Recording Officer, in conformity with
the provisions of the Map Filing Law, N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq. The Planning
Board may, for good cause, extend the time period for filing for an additional
190 days from the date of signing of the plats. The Planning Board may extend
the 95 day or 190 day period if the applicant proves to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Planning Board that the applicant was barred or prevented,
directly or indirectly, from filing because of delays in obtaining legally
required approvals from other governmental entities and that the applicant
applied promptly for and diligently pursued the required approvals. The length
of the extension shall be equal to the period of delay caused by the wait for
the required approvals, as determined by the Planning Board. The applicant may
apply for the extension either before or after what would otherwise be the
expiration date.
   (E)   Effect of final approval.
      (1)   The zoning requirements applicable to the preliminary approval
first granted and all other rights granted to the applicant pursuant to the
preliminary approval, whether conditionally or otherwise, shall not be changed
for a period of two years after the date on which the resolution of final
approval is adopted; provided that the applicant has duly recorded the major
subdivision plant as provided for in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-54.
      (2)   If the applicant has duly recorded the major subdivision plat as
provided for in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-54, the Planning Board may grant an extension
of the final approval for not more than three additional one year periods.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.,
the granting of final approval terminates the time period of preliminary
approval for the section(s) granted final approval.
      (4)   In the case of a subdivision or site plan for a planned development
of 50 acres or more, a conventional subdivision or site plan for 150 acres or
more, or site plan for development of nonresidential floor area of 200,000
square feet or more, the Planning Board may grant the rights referred to in §
156.022(E)(1) and
156.022(E)(2) above for a reasonable period of greater than two years, but not
more than seven years. The applicant may apply for thereafter, and the Planning
Board may thereafter grant, an extension of final approval for such additional
period of time as shall be determined by the Planning Board to be reasonable
taking into consideration:
         (a)   The total number of dwelling units and/or square footage of non-
residential floor area which is proposed;
         (b)   Economic conditions; and
         (c)   The comprehensiveness of the development.
      (5)   Whenever the Planning Board grants an extension of final approval
pursuant to §
156.022(E)(1), §
156.022(E)(2) §
156.022(E)(4) above and final approval has expired before the date on which the
extension is granted, the extension shall begin on what would otherwise be the
expiration date. The applicant may apply for the extension either before or
after what would otherwise be the expiration date.
      (6)   The Planning Board shall grant an extension of final approval for a
period determined by the Board but not exceeding one year from what would
otherwise be the expiration date, if the applicant proves to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Board that he or she was barred or prevented, directly or
indirectly, from proceeding with the development because of delays in obtaining
legally required approvals from other governmental entities and that he or she
applied promptly for and diligently pursued the required approvals. An
applicant shall apply for the extension before (a) what would otherwise be the
expiration date of preliminary approval or (b) the 91st day after the applicant
receives the last legally required approval from other governmental entities,
whichever occurs later.
      (7)   All final approvals are conditioned upon submission of required
bonds or other surety of a form satisfactory to the township, as prescribed in
§ 156.30 below. If required street, utility, and similar improvements are not
constructed, the township may call said bond or surety and use its proceeds to
construct said improvements at the applicant's expense.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.023 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The applicant must comply with §
156.010 of this chapter regarding requirements for notice of a public hearing.
   (B)   The Planning Board may condition conditional use approval upon
compliance with any reasonable condition not in violation with the terms of
this chapter or other applicable local, state or federal laws.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall take action on an application for a
conditional use within 95 days of submission of a complete application or
within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant.
      (1)   This time period shall be extended to be concurrent with the review
of a site plan application.
      (2)   An approval shall be conditioned upon receipt of a favorable
recommendation from the County Planning Board or other appropriate agency.
      (3)   Failure to render a timely decision shall be deemed an approval, as
required by N.J.S.A. 40:55D-67.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall take action on a conditional use
approval application which includes a request for relief pursuant to N.J.S.A.
40:55D-70d. within 120 days after the application has been certified complete
or within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant. In the
event that the applicant elects to submit separate consecutive applications,
the aforesaid provision shall apply to the application for approval of the
variance. The period for granting or denying any subsequent approval shall be
as otherwise provided in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq. Failure of the Zoning Board
of Adjustment to act within the prescribed time period shall constitute
approval of the application.
   (E)   Effect of approval. The rights granted to an applicant upon approval
of conditional use shall be effective from the date of approval for a period of
one year, unless the applicant has commenced such use within such one year
period. Rights granted shall expire upon the expiration of such one year period
in the event the applicant has not commenced such use, or upon the abandonment
of the use.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.024 APPROVAL PROCEDURES FOR GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS ("GDP").
   (A)   Purpose. The opportunity to submit a GDP is intended to provide a
means to coordinate long-range public and private planning of large-scale
development projects in those zoning districts where GDP's are permitted.
Approval of a GDP is intended to provide protections as set forth in § 40:55D-
45.1 prior to preliminary and final site plan and/or subdivision approvals.
Approval of a GDP is separate, and must be acted upon separately, from
preliminary and final site plan/or subdivision approvals.
   (B)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Applicants of large tracts of land shall be permitted to file a GDP
application prior to, or simultaneously with, the filing of a preliminary
subdivision or site plan application provided all the requirements are met for
each form of application. For purposes of this chapter, "large tracts of land"
as used herein shall mean tracts of 100 acres or greater.
      (2)   Applicants may submit GDP plans for review and approval
simultaneously with separate site plan and/or subdivision applications which
may, or may not, contain conditional use and/or variance requests for any phase
of the GDP.
   (C)   Filing procedures; items required.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the Administrative Officer at least
21 days prior to the meeting of the reviewing board at which such application
is to be considered: 15 black-on-white copies of the GDP in plat form together
with any supporting data, two completed copies of the application form, two
copies of the Voorhees Township Land Development Review Submission Checklist
indicating a submission of all requirements for GDP approval along with two
copies of all items required for such approval as set forth on such checklist
and the applicable fees. All plats shall be folded to file folder size with the
title block facing out.
      (2)   The plat and accompanying written and other data, and reports,
shall be prepared by appropriate professional experts, licensed by the State of
New Jersey when applicable, in sufficient detail to allow for reasonable review
by the reviewing board's own experts at the applicants expense and shall
include the following:
         (a)   Be clearly and legibly drawn.
         (b)   Graphic scale not less than one inch equals 200 feet. If more
than one sheet is required, a separate sheet showing the overall site on one
sheet shall be submitted as a cover page to the complete set of plans. Sheet
sizes shall be no larger than 36 inches by 42 inches.
         (c)   As part of the land use plan, the GDP shall set forth the number
of dwelling units, the amount of nonresidential floor space, the residential
density and the nonresidential floor area ratio for the planned development, in
its entirety, and by sections according to any schedule which sets forth the
timing of sections of the development. The proposed land use plan shall
indicate the total tract area and the general locations of the land uses to be
included in the development, including existing and proposed lot lines and the
area of each lot. The total number of dwelling units by types and locations and
the nonresidential floor area by types and location shall be delineated on the
overall plan, and identified according to any proposed sections of development
according to a timing schedule. A legend shall identify the land area devoted
to each land use type with a calculation of the residential density and the
gross floor area within each section and in the overall tract.
         (d)   A circulation plan showing the general location and types of
transportation facilities including pedestrian ways, off-street parking and
loading spaces, aisles, driveways, and streets, as well as proposed
improvements to the existing transportation and highway system, either on-site
or off-tract, along with a report analyzing the impact of traffic generated by
the proposed GDP on nearby roadways.
         (e)   An open space plan showing the proposed area and general
location of parks and any other land area to be set aside for open space,
wetlands, other conservation areas, recreational areas, and buffer areas
together with a general description of any improvements proposed to be made
thereon, including a plan for the operation and maintenance of these areas and
the design and layout of landscaping as required by the Township Landscape
Ordinance. The submission shall include the proposed governing documents and
bylaws of any homeowners, community or condominium association to be
established.
         (f)   A utility plan indicating the need for and showing the proposed
locations of the sewage collection and treatment system; water supply and
distribution system, drainage facilities, gas, CATV, telephone and electric
supplies, lighting, proposed methods of handling solid waste disposal, the
recycling of recyclable materials, and a plan for the operation and maintenance
of the proposed utilities.
         (g)   The proposed, schematic stormwater management plan and
topographical survey setting forth the proposed method of controlling and
managing storm water on-site and, if appropriate, related off-tract stormwater
management facilities.
         (h)   An environmental inventory including a general description of
the vegetation and any major wooded areas; soil types; topography; geology;
surface hydrology including wetlands and wetland buffer areas, stream
corridors, floodways and flood hazard areas; climate; cultural resources of the
site; existing and manmade structures or features; and the probable impact of
the development on the environmental attributes of the site.
         (i)   A community facility plan indicating the scope and type of
supporting community facilities which may include, but not be limited to,
educational, cultural, historic, library, hospital, fire house, police station,
and recreation uses.
         (j)   A housing plan setting forth the number of housing units to be
provided and the extent to which any housing obligation assigned to the
township under the Fair Housing Act and the rules of the Council on Affordable
Housing will be provided by the development, if applicable.
         (k)   A local service plan indicating those public services which the
applicant proposes to provide and which may include, but are not limited to,
water service, sewage collection and treatment, electric, gas, telephone
service, cable TV, solid waste collection and disposal, and a plan for
separation and recycling of recyclable materials sufficient to allow a
determination that adequate capacity exists for such utilities.
         (l)   A fiscal report estimating the demand on municipal services to
be generated by the development and any financial impacts to be faced by the
township or the local and regional school districts as a result of the
development including a projection of tax revenues for the township, local and
regional school districts, fire district and county according to a projected
timing schedule for completion of the development.
         (m)   A proposed timing schedule including the terms and conditions
intended to protect the interests of the public and of the residents and
nonresident occupants of any section of the development prior to completion of
each section as well as prior to completion of the entire development. Each
section of the development shall coordinate the applicant's interest with the
public interest in such things as the size of each phase, financing costs,
bonding and mixed uses with logical infrastructure improvements that function
properly at the end of each section. Logical infrastructure shall include, but
not be limited to, the water distribution system and fire hydrants, sewage
collection and treatment system, coordinated on-site circulation systems, off-
tract road improvements, dedicated open space, stabilized soil, and stormwater
control facilities.
         (n)   An estimate of the cost of completing required public and common
services including recreational amenities, circulation system improvements,
utility lines, community facilities, and such other improvements as may be
deemed necessary. This estimate shall include the cost of all on-site
improvements and a fair share of all required off-site improvements.
         (o)   A written, proposed, Applicant's Agreement between the township
and the applicant or its assignees. A draft agreement shall be initiated by the
applicant and submitted simultaneously with the GDP application. Any revised
draft shall be based upon the approval of the GDP and shall be submitted prior
to or as part of a preliminary and/or final subdivision or site plan approval
for any phase or section of the development. The final agreement shall be
executed following, but as a condition of, final subdivision or site plan
approval of any phase or section of the development, and shall thereafter be
amended, as appropriate, for each subsequent phase or section of the
development. The agreement shall specify:
            1.   The length of time within which the zoning rights are vested,
not to exceed the period(s) set forth in the reviewing board's resolution
approving the GDP and in paragraph (D)(5) of this section; and
            2.   The applicant's commitments to completing any applicable
infrastructure improvements, community facilities, and, if applicable, the
method of participating in the township's housing program.
            3.   Subject to the rights of the applicant pursuant to N.J.S.A.
40:55D-45.1a and as referenced above, the applicant's obligation to reasonably
remedy environmental or infrastructure problems identified by the township and
required to be remedied as a result of changes in applicable state or Federal
laws, ordinances or regulations.
            4.   The applicant's commitment to a phasing or timing schedule
that includes updating of traffic, water, sewer and similar facilities as
referenced in §
156.024(C)(2)(o)2. and 3. above as part of the submission of each preliminary
and final plat for each phase or section of the development in order to make
any necessary adjustments to the timing schedule and/or on-site or off-tract
improvements for the overall GDP based on actual experience rather than initial
projections. The agreement may provide the reviewing board with the right to
relieve the applicant of all or portions of this obligation depending on how
current the previous submissions and the data have been, how much development
has occurred either on-site or in nearby areas and the degree to which other
conditions affecting the issues may have changed.
            5.   The form of agreement shall contain the right of the township
to require the applicant to provide updating or prior studies at each phase of
the development and to pay the costs of increased or decreased fair share of
on-site and off-tract improvements which are required by the applicable law
governing such improvements based upon the pro-rata share assigned to the
applicant, in order to deal with the need to accelerate, add, reduce or
eliminate those improvements directly due to the development.
            6.   The form of agreement shall provide for cooperation in the
execution of endorsements relating to permits for Federal, State, County or
other governmental agencies, as permitted by law. The Applicant's Agreement
executed pursuant to this §
156.024(C)(2)(o) shall be recorded against the property upon which the GDP
approval is being obtained. Evidence of such recording acceptable to the
Township Solicitor must be given by the Township Clerk before the Township
Clerk may sign the final site plan or subdivision plans. The Applicant's
Agreement executed and recorded by the applicant pursuant to this §
156.024(C)(2)(o), shall be in addition to, and not in substitution of, the
Applicant's Agreement required pursuant to §
156.032 of the Township Code.
         (p)   Nothing herein shall be construed to lessen the applicant's
obligation to abide by applicable State or Federal laws, ordinances and
regulations such as environmental, infrastructure, and housing requirements
which changes might require modification to the GDP approval relating to
construction, funding, phasing, and/or site plan design.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.025 ACTION BY REVIEWING BOARD; EFFECT AND DURATION FOR GDP.
   (A)   Prior to GDP approval, the reviewing board shall schedule and conduct
a public hearing on the matter. The applicant must comply with §
156.010 of this chapter regarding the requests for notice of a public hearing.
   (B)   The reviewing board shall approve or deny the GDP within 95 days of
submitting a complete application, or within such further time as may be
consented to by the applicant. Failure of the reviewing board to act within the
period prescribed shall constitute GDP approval. A GDP may be granted approval
conditioned on necessary county, state, municipal, or other approving or
licensing agencies acting favorably on, or issuing, their permits and/or
licenses as may be required.
   (C)   The GDP approval does not authorize the applicant to commence either
construction or site work. The applicant must obtain subdivision and/or site
plan approval, as applicable, prior to the commencement of either construction
or site work.
   (D)   The reviewing board shall find the following facts and conclusions as
part of a GDP approval:
      (1)   The departures by the proposed GDP from zoning otherwise applicable
to the subject property conform to zoning ordinance standards set forth for the
GDP planned development for the zone in which the property is located.
      (2)   That proposals for maintenance and conservation of any common open
space are reliable, and the amount, location and purpose of the common open
space are adequate.
      (3)   That provisions through the physical design of the proposed GDP for
public services, control over vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and the
amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment are adequate.
      (4)   The proposed GDP will not have an unreasonably adverse impact upon
the area in which it is proposed to be established.
      (5)   That a GDP proposed to be constructed over a period of years has
adequate terms and conditions intended to protect the interests of the public
and of the residents, occupants and owners of the proposed development in the
total completion of the development.
   (E)   The reviewing board shall establish the term and effect of the GDP.
The GDP, once approved, shall vest in the applicant the right to develop the
specified number of dwelling units, the amount of nonresidential floor space,
the residential density, and the nonresidential floor area ratio, as authorized
by and for the term set forth in the GDP. The terms and conditions of the GDP
shall also, to the extent specified, determine the extent and nature of the
applicant's rights, obligations and responsibilities with respect to
circulation, on and off tract improvements, open space, utilities, stormwater
management, environmental preservation, community facilities, housing and local
services.
      (1)   The term of effect shall not exceed 20 years from the date the
applicant receives final approval of the first section of the GDP, or such
lesser time approved by the reviewing board provided the approval period is at
least five years. In making its determination regarding the duration of the
term of effect of the GDP approval, the reviewing board shall consider the
number of dwelling units or amount of nonresidential floor area to be
constructed, prevailing economic conditions, the timing schedule to be followed
in completing the development and the likelihood of its fulfillment, the
applicant's capability of completing the proposed development, and the contents
of the GDP and any conditions the reviewing board attaches to the approval
thereof.
      (2)   The approval may be extended by the Planning Board for good cause
for additional two year periods but the Planning Board shall have the right to
include with each extension a requirement that the applicant comply with such
additional conditions as the Planning Board may deem appropriate and in the
public interest. In no case shall the term of the effect of the approval and
any extensions exceed 20 years from the date upon which the applicant receives
final approval of the first section of the planned development.
      (3)   The applicant shall, to the satisfaction of the township, construct
required improvements or post sufficient bond, notes, or letters of credit, to
insure that, in the event that the development is not fully developed prior to
the expiration of the general development plan, that adequate recreational,
circulation, utility, and community facilities shall be provided to the
residents and occupants of those portions of the development which are
completed.
      (4)   Approval of the general development plan does not relieve the
applicant of the necessity to apply for preliminary and final site plan or
subdivision approval for each and every section of the development and to fully
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   The Planning Board may condition approval upon compliance with any
reasonable condition not in violation of the terms of this chapter or other
applicable local, state or federal laws.
§ 156.026 MODIFICATIONS TO GDP OR TIMING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   If, after the approval of a GDP, the applicant wishes to revise the
timing schedule, or wishes to make any variation in the location of land uses
within the development, or to increase the density of residential development
or the floor area ratio of nonresidential development in any section of the
development, the applicant shall be required to gain the prior approval of the
reviewing board, except that the applicant may reduce the number of residential
units or amount of nonresidential floor space by no more than 15%, or reduce
the residential density or nonresidential floor area ratio by no more than 15%
provided, however, that an applicant may not reduce the number of low and
moderate income residential units to be provided, if any, without the prior
approval of the reviewing board, and provided further there shall be no
reduction in the level of improvements, off-tract contributions, or similar
conditions of the GDP without prior approval of the reviewing board.
   (B)   A revision to the timing schedule shall be reviewed by the reviewing
board and the granting or denial of any extensions of time shall be based on
the degree to which matters are judged to be, or to have been, within the
reasonable control of the applicant, or the degree to which matters may have
been beyond the control of the applicant. The reviewing board shall also
consider the items outlined in §
156.025(D) above as part of any revision to the timing schedule.
   (C)   Upon acquiring a certificate of occupancy for every residential unit
and every nonresidential structure in each section of the development as set
forth in the approved GDP, the applicant shall notify the Administrative
Officer, by certified mail, as evidence that the applicant is fulfilling his
obligations under the approved GDP. If the township does not receive such
notification at the completion of any section of the development, the township
shall notify the applicant, by certified mail, in order to determine whether or
not the terms of the approved plan are being complied with.
   (D)   If the applicant does not complete any section of development within
eight months of the date provided for in the approved GDP, or if at any time
the township has cause to believe that the applicant is not fulfilling his
obligations pursuant to the approved GDP, the township shall notify the
applicant, by certified mail, and the applicant shall have ten days within
which to give evidence that he is fulfilling his obligations pursuant to the
approved GDP. The township thereafter shall conduct a hearing to determine
whether or not the applicant is in violation of the approved GDP. If after the
hearing, the township finds good cause to terminate the approval, it shall
provide written notice of same to the applicant and the approval shall be
terminated 30 days thereafter.
   (E)   In the event that a applicant who has GDP approval does not apply for
preliminary site plan or subdivision approval for the planned development which
is the subject of the GDP approval within five years of the date upon which the
GDP has been approved by the reviewing board, the township shall have cause to
terminate the approval. For purposes of this chapter, the application for
preliminary approval within the five year period as required herein will be
satisfied by submitting one or more applications for one or more sections of a
phased development within this five year period, and will remain in compliance
provided subsequent preliminary plat submissions for further sections of the
development are submitted in a timely manner consistent with the timing
schedule approved as part of the GDP.
   (F)   In the event that a development which is the subject of an approved
GDP is completed before the end of the term of the approval, the approval shall
terminate and the development shall be considered complete on the date upon
which the certificate of occupancy has been issued for the final residential
and nonresidential structure in the last section of the development in
accordance with the timing schedule set forth in the approved GDP and the
applicant has fulfilled all his obligations pursuant to the approval.
§ 156.027 COMPLIANCE AND TIME LIMITATIONS FOR CERTAIN APPROVALS.
   (A)   Compliance. All applicable requirements shall be met at the first time
of erection, enlargement, alterations, moving or change in use of a structure
and shall apply to the entire structure or structures, whether or not the
entire structure or structures were involved in the erection, enlargement,
alteration, moving or change in use.
   (B)   Time limit on variances.
      (1)   Applicable time limit - Any variance granted by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment or the Planning Board pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70, subsection c.
or d., shall expire and become null and void one year from the date such
variance is granted unless within said period the applicant obtains a building
permit or otherwise avails himself of the said approval; provided, however,
that in the event that such variance is approved in conjunction with a major
subdivision or site plan approval, then such variance shall not expire and
become null and void until three years after the preliminary approval for such
site plan and/or subdivision is granted and any approved extensions thereof, or
if final approval is granted for such development, two years from the date of
the final approval and any approved extensions thereof.
      (2)   Varying time periods. Nothing contained herein shall be construed
as preventing the applicable municipal agency from specifying a shorter or
longer period of time than noted in subsection B.1. above pursuant to approvals
granted to variance applications under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70, subsection c. or d.,
that are not in conjunction with a major subdivision or site plan approval.
   (C)   Commencement of time periods. For the purpose of calculating the times
provided for in this section, such time periods shall commence on the date the
municipal agency memorializes its approval by written resolution.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.028 DOCUMENT SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The documents to be submitted are intended to provide the reviewing
board with sufficient information and data to assure compliance with all
township codes and specifications and ensure that the proposed development
meets the design and improvement standards contained in Title 15. The
specification of documents to be submitted is based on the type of development
and particular stage of development application.
   (B)   The documents to be submitted are shown on charts entitled "Submission
Requirements Checklist Subdivisions, Site Plans, General Development Plans,
Conditional Uses, Site Plan Waivers and Change of Use" and "Submission
Requirements Checklist N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70 a, b, c, and d" set forth in Chapter
158, are made a part of this chapter and are adopted herein and included by
reference. In specific cases and for documentation reasons, the reviewing board
may waive the submission of a particular document. The reasons for the waiver
shall be indicated in the resolution of the reviewing board.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.029 FEES.
   All application fees and other fees applicable to any application covered
under this chapter shall be set annually by ordinance adopted by the Township
Committee.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.030 PERFORMANCE GUARANTIES.
   (A)   As a condition of final development approval, the reviewing board
shall require, for the purpose of assuring the installation of all improvements
required under such approval, that the applicant furnish a performance guaranty
in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   The performance guaranty must run in favor of the township, and be
in an amount not to exceed 120%, rounded to the nearest dollar; of the cost of
installation of improvements the township may deem necessary or appropriate,
including, but not limited to, streets, grading, pavement, gutters, curbs,
sidewalks, street lighting, shade trees, surveyor's monuments (as shown on the
final map and required by the Map Filing Law, (N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq.),
water mains, culverts, storm sewers, sanitary sewers or other means of sewage
disposal, drainage structures, erosion control and sedimentation control
devices, public improvements and landscaping, provided that the township may
not require more than 10% of the total performance guaranty to be in cash and
the balance shall be in the form of a surety bond issued by a bonding company
licensed to do business in the State of New Jersey or a letter of credit issued
by a banking institution licensed to do business in the State of New Jersey.
Nothing herein shall preclude the township from accepting a full cash
performance guaranty. Such bond or letter of credit must be approved and
accepted by the township governing body. The Township Engineer shall review the
improvements required by the reviewing board, which are to be bonded and
itemize their cost. This itemization shall be the basis for determining the
amount of the performance guaranty required by the township and the inspection
fees required by this code. The Township Engineer shall forward his/her
estimate of the cost of improvements to the applicant within 30 days after the
date of receipt of a request sent by certified mail for this estimate. Any
performance guaranty delivered to the Township Clerk pursuant to this section
shall be for an initial term of not less than two years, shall provide for
automatic one-year renewals and shall only be terminable on the date of
expiration, either of the original period or any renewal period, upon not less
than 60 days advanced written notice. In the event that any of the improvements
to be installed are covered by a performance guaranty to another governmental
agency, no performance guaranty shall be required from the township for such
improvements.
      (2)   If at any time during the period of time between acceptance of the
initial performance guaranty and the date of the Township Committee's formal
release of such performance guaranty, the Township Committee has reasonable
cause to doubt the value, legality, enforceability or effectiveness of such
guaranty, all development activity for which such guaranty was established
shall be discontinued until such time as a substitute guaranty, in form and
substance equivalent to the guaranty which was required to be in place at the
time the status of the original guaranty was questioned, shall be delivered to
and accepted by the Township Committee. By way of illustration and not
limitation, the following shall be instances of reasonable cause to doubt the
value, legality, enforceability or effectiveness of such guaranties:
         (a)   The company issuing the bond shall cease to do business, declare
insolvency or bankruptcy or be forced into involuntary bankruptcy.
         (b)   The bank, savings and loan, credit union, mortgage banking
company or other banking or banking-like entity issuing a letter of credit
shall become insolvent, be taken over by any governmental or quasi-governmental
agency or company or otherwise cease to do business.
         (c)   The issuer of any performance guaranty shall serve on the
township notice of termination or cancellation of such guaranty.
   (B)   The amount of any performance guaranty may be reduced by the Township
Committee, by resolution, when portions of the improvements have been certified
by the Township Engineer to have been completed. The time allowed for
installation of the improvements for which the performance guaranty has been
provided may be extended by the Township Committee by resolution.
   (C)   If the required improvements are not completed or corrected in
accordance with the finally approved development plans and approvals, the
obligor and surety shall be liable thereon to the township for the reasonable
cost of the improvements not completed or corrected, and the Township, either
prior to or after the receipt of the proceeds of the performance guaranty, may
complete such improvements.
   (D)   When all of the required improvements have been completed, the obligor
shall notify the administrative officer, in writing, by certified mail, with a
copy to the Municipal Clerk, of the completion of such improvements and shall
send a copy thereof to the Township Engineer. Upon receipt of this notice, the
Township Engineer shall inspect all of the improvements and shall file a
detailed report, in writing, with the administrative officer, indicating either
approval, partial approval or rejection of the improvements with a statement of
reasons for rejection. If partial approval is indicated, the cost of the
improvements rejected shall be set forth.
      (1)   The Township Committee shall either approve, partially approve or
reject the improvements on the basis of the report of the Township Engineer and
shall notify the obligor, in writing, by certified mail, of the contents of the
Township Engineer's report and the action of the Township Committee with
relation thereto not later than 65 days after receipt of the notice from the
obligor of the completion of the improvements. Where partial approval is
granted, the obligor shall be released from all liability pursuant to its
performance guaranty except for that portion adequately sufficient to secure
completion of the improvements not yet approved. Failure of the Township
Committee to send or provide such notification to the obligor within 65 days
shall be deemed to constitute approval of the improvements and the obligor and
surety, if any, subject to the requirements of
§ 156.031 below, shall be released from all liability pursuant to such
performance guaranty.
      (2)   If any portion of the required improvements is rejected, the
obligor shall complete such improvements, and, upon completion, the same
procedure of notification as set forth in this section shall be followed.
   (E)   The obligor shall reimburse the township for all reasonable inspection
fees paid to the Township Engineer for the foregoing inspection of
improvements, pursuant to
§ 156.033 below.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 12-02, passed 6-24-02)
§ 156.031 MAINTENANCE GUARANTIES.
   (A)   As a condition of the final release of all performance guaranties
posted by an applicant with respect to any development approval within the
township, the applicant shall deliver to the Township Clerk, for the purpose of
assuring that all improvements installed in accordance with such development
approval have been installed in a good and workmanlike manner and that all
materials are fit for their intended purpose, a maintenance guaranty in
accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   The maintenance guaranty shall be for a period of two years
commencing on the date that the Township Committee finally accepts the
improvements as being complete, in an amount not to exceed 15% of the total
cost of the improvements as set forth on the Township Engineer's estimate for
such improvements completed with §
156.030(A)(1) above. In the event that other governmental agencies or public
utilities automatically will own the utilities or improvements which are
installed or the improvements are covered by a maintenance guaranty provided by
the applicant to another governmental agency, no maintenance guaranty in favor
of the township shall be required for such utilities or improvements. Such
maintenance guaranty shall be in the form of a surety bond issued by a surety
licensed to do business in the State of New Jersey and rated A+ or better by
A.M. Best, or a letter of credit issued by a banking institution licensed to do
business in the State of New Jersey. Such maintenance guaranty shall be
approved and accepted by the Township Committee.
      (2)   If any time during the period of time prior to expiration of the
maintenance guaranty, the Township Committee has reasonable cause to doubt the
value, legality, enforceability or effectiveness of such guaranty, the obligor
must deliver to the Township Clerk a substitute guaranty, in form and substance
equivalent to the guaranty which was required to be in place at the time the
status of the original guaranty was questioned. By way of illustration and not
limitation, the following shall be instances of reasonable cause to doubt the
value, legality, enforceability or effectiveness of such guaranties:
         (a)   The company issuing the bond shall cease to do business, declare
insolvency or bankruptcy or be forced into involuntary bankruptcy.
         (b)   The bank, savings and loan, credit union, mortgage banking
company or other banking or banking-like entity issuing a letter of credit
shall become insolvent, be taken over by any governmental or quasi-governmental
agency or company or otherwise cease to do business.
   (B)   If the township determines that any improvements which are covered by
such maintenance guaranty have not been completed in a good and workmanlike
manner, or that any materials which were incorporated into such improvements
are not fit for their intended purpose and the obligor, under such maintenance
guaranty, has not corrected the improvements to the satisfaction of the
Township Engineer within 30 days after written notice of such defect, the
obligor and the surety shall be liable on such guaranty to the Township for the
reasonable cost of correcting and/or replacing such improvements, and the
township, either prior to or after the receipt of the proceeds of such
guaranty, shall have the right, but not the obligation, to complete corrective
work or replacements of such improvements which may be required.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.032 DEVELOPER'S AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   As a condition of final development approval, the reviewing board shall
require the applicant to execute and deliver to the township, along with the
performance guaranty set forth in §
156.030, a developer's agreement in the form prepared by the reviewing board
solicitor and approved by the Township Attorney. The time restrictions and
conditions set forth in the developer's agreement shall be completed by the
reviewing board engineer. All performance guaranties submitted with respect to
any particular application shall reference such agreement by name, parties and
date of execution. All applicants shall be given a copy of this code section
and the then-current draft form of the developer's agreement with the
application package. Any amendments or modifications to such agreement after
the date of same is approved and accepted by the Township Committee shall be
completed and approved by the reviewing board and then submitted to the
Township Committee for approval and execution. The developer's agreement and
any amendments thereto shall be recorded against the real property which is the
subject of the application prior to the issuance of a zoning permit. Evidence
in the form of a copy of the developer's agreement time stamped by the County
Clerk shall be submitted to the Township Clerk. Upon completion of the
improvements, release of the performance guaranty and submission and approval
of the required maintenance guaranty, the township shall execute a release of
the developer's agreement, in recordable form. The preparation and recording of
such release shall be borne by the applicant.
§ 156.033 ESCROWS.
   (A)   Application escrow.
      (1)   All fees other than application fees, inspection escrows and
miscellaneous fees shall be escrow fees to pay the services of any professional
personnel employed by the reviewing board or the Township Committee to process,
review, inspect, study or make recommendations to such reviewing board or the
Township Committee concerning the nature and substance of the applicant's
application and/or to pay the services of any such professional personnel and
the costs and expenses incurred by such professional personnel, the reviewing
board and/or the Township Committee to create, amend or modify, including, but
not limited to, the costs and expenses to draft, finalize and publish, the
official Tax Map and/or Zoning Map of the township, which creation, amendment
and/or modification is necessitated by the approval of the applicant's
application.
      (2)   If during the existence of this escrow account the balance of funds
held by the township shall be insufficient to cover vouchers submitted by the
professionals, the applicant shall deposit additional sums with the township to
voucher the amount of the deficit and the anticipated amount to cover all
remaining work within 10 days after receipt of written notice from the township
of the amounts owed. In the event that an applicant fails to deposit the
additional escrow moneys as required within the time set forth in this
subsection, the township, through its agents and employees, shall take whatever
action it deems necessary in order to compel the payment of the escrow amount.
In addition, the professional personnel may take any action individually as
they deem necessary to satisfy the vouchers submitted. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any applicant who does not deposit such additional escrow moneys
within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the township of the amounts
owed shall be charged a late fee equal to 10% times the amounts owed from the
date such sums were due pursuant to such notice until paid in full (including
all accrued late fees). No permit, approval or certificate shall be issued to
any applicant or property owner by the reviewing board, Zoning Officer,
Township Committee, Township Clerk or any other agency of the township unless
all amounts owed pursuant to this section by such applicant or owner or with
respect to the subject property are paid in full.
      (3)   All excess moneys in the escrow account will be returned, at the
time of final release of maintenance guaranties for improvements completed as
part of the development approval, to the applicant with a statement of money
expended against the account. If at any time prior to final approval the
applicant elects to withdraw his request for approval and abandon the project,
any moneys remaining in the escrow account, after all proper charges have been
paid, will be returned to the applicant with a statement of money expended
against the account.
   (B)   Inspection escrows. The cost of all inspections by the Township
Engineer shall be the responsibility of the applicant, and the applicant shall
deposit the necessary inspection fees with the township prior to the issuance
of a building permit or zoning permit. The inspection escrow shall be in
addition to the amount of any required performance or maintenance guarantees,
application fees and application escrows and shall consist of a sum equal to
the greater of $500 or 5% of the total cost of the improvements as determined
pursuant to §
156.030 above. If the calculated amount of inspection escrows is $10,000 or
greater, the applicant shall have the right to deliver the inspection escrows
to the township in four installments, the initial amount deposited being not
less then 25% of the calculated escrow amount. When the balance held in the
escrow drops to 10% of the calculated amount due to the fact that escrowed
funds have been paid to the Township Engineer for invoiced inspections which
have occurred, the applicant shall make additional deposits of 25% of the
calculated amount. The Township Engineer shall not perform any inspection if
insufficient funds to pay those inspections are not on deposit. Funds which are
unexpended after 90 days of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or a
certificate of conformance shall be returned to the applicant upon request, in
writing, to the reviewing board. The applicant shall immediately pay upon
demand all additional site inspection costs as are necessary and reasonable.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.034 OFF-TRACT IMPROVEMENTS.
   This section is intended to ensure a pro rata share allocation of the costs
for off-tract improvements necessitated by new development.As a condition of
final subdivision or site plan approval, the reviewing board may require an
applicant to pay his/her pro rata share of the cost of providing reasonable and
necessary off-tract improvements directly related to the development. These
costs may include the acquisition of land and/or easements for, and
construction of, improvements to traffic and pedestrian circulation, water,
sewage and drainage facilities, and shade trees that are located off-tract of
the property limits of the subdivision or development. This contribution is
required because the improvements are necessitated or required directly by the
development. In addition, a development may be liable for its share of the cost
of the impact of the development to township and/or regional capital
improvements provided that the cost shall not duplicate off-tract improvements
for which the applicant is primarily responsible. The reviewing board shall
provide in its resolution of approval the basis of the required improvements.
   (A)   Calculations of proportionate costs.
      (1)   Full allocation. In cases where off-tract improvements are
necessitated by the proposed development, and where no other property owner(s)
receive(s) a special benefit thereby, the applicant may be required at his sole
expense and as a condition of approval, to provide and install such
improvements. In such case where the reviewing board determines that the full
improvement is required to service this development, the applicant shall fully
install the entire improvements at his expense with no reimbursement.
      (2)   Proportionate allocation.
         (a)   Where it is determined that some properties outside the
development will also be benefited by the off-tract improvements, the following
criteria shall be utilized in determining the proportionate share of the cost
of such improvements to the applicant.
         (b)   Allocation formula.
            1.   Traffic and circulation. The applicant's proportionate share
of street improvements, alignment, channelization, barriers, new or improved
traffic signalization, signs, curbs, sidewalks, trees, utility improvements
uncovered elsewhere, the construction or reconstruction of new or existing
streets, and other associated street or traffic improvements shall be as
follows:
               A.   The municipal engineer, traffic engineer or planner shall
provide the applicant with the existing and reasonably anticipated future peak
hour traffic for the off-tract improvement;
               B.   i.   The applicant shall furnish a plan for the proposed
off-tract improvement which shall include the estimated peak-hour traffic
generated by the proposed development and the proportion thereof which is to be
accommodated by the proposed off-tract improvement. The ratio of the peak hour
traffic generated by the proposed development which is to be accommodated by
the off-tract improvement to the future additional peak-hour traffic
anticipated to impact the proposed off-tract improvement shall form the basis
of the proportionate share. The proportionate share shall be computed as
follows:
 
Total cost of enlargement or = Capacity of enlargement or improvement
improvement                    (peak-hour traffic)
                               Development peak-hour traffic to be
Applicant's Cost               accommodated by the enlargement or
                               improvement
 
                  ii.   The calculations shall be based where applicable upon
the data included in the 2005 Transportation Element of the Master Plan.
            2.   Drainage improvements. The applicant's proportionate share of
storm water and drainage improvements including the installation, relocation or
replacement of storm drains, culverts, catch basins, manholes, rip-rap,
improved drainage ditches and appurtenances thereto, and relocation or
replacement of other storm drainage facilities or appurtenances associated
therewith, shall be determined as follows:
               A.   The capacity and the design of the drainage system to
accommodate storm water runoff shall be based on the standards specified in
Title 15, computed by the applicant's engineer and approved by the municipal
engineer.
               B.   i.   The capacity of the enlarged, extended, or improved
system required for the subdivision and areas outside of the applicant's
tributary to the drainage system shall be determined by the applicant's
engineer subject to approval of the municipal engineer. The plans for the
improved system shall be prepared by the applicant's engineer and the estimated
cost of the enlarged system calculated by the municipal engineer. The prorated
share for the proposed improvement shall be computed as follows:
 
Total cost of enlargement or   Capacity of enlargement or improvement
improvement                  = (total capacity expressed in cubic feet
                               per second)
                               Development-generated peak rate of
Applicant's Cost               runoff expressed in cubic feet per
                               second to be accommodated by the
                               enlargement of improvement
 
                  ii.   The calculations shall be based where applicable upon
the data included in the Stormwater Management Element of the Master Plan.
            3.   Other improvements, other criteria. The reviewing board may
also use any reasonable criteria to determine the proportionate share of such
improvements as it feels are necessary to protect the health, safety and
general welfare of the township.
   (B)   Future funds. Where the proposed off-tract improvement is to be
undertaken at some future date, the monies required for the improvement shall
be deposited in a separate interest-bearing account to the credit of the
Township of Voorhees until such time as the improvement is constructed. If the
off-tract improvement is not begun within ten years of deposit, all monies and
interest shall be returned to the applicant.
   (C)   Assessment of property. Upon receipt from the applicant of its
allocated share of the costs of the off-tract improvements, the township may
adopt a local improvement assessment ordinance for the purpose of construction
and installation of the off-tract improvements, based upon the actual cost
thereof. Any portion of the cost of the improvements not defrayed by a deposit
by the applicant may be assessed against benefiting property owners by the
township. Any assessments for benefits conferred made against the applicant or
its successors in interest shall be first offset by a pro rata share credit of
the allocated costs previously deposited with the township pertaining thereto.
The applicant or its successors in interest shall not be liable for any part of
an assessment for such improvements unless the assessment exceeds the pro rata
share credit previously deposited, and then only to the extent of the
deficiency.
   (D)   Credit for work performed. In the event that the applicant, with the
township's consent, decides to install and construct the off-tract improvements
or any portion thereof, the certified cost shall be treated as a credit against
any future assessment for that particular off-tract improvement or portion
thereof constructed by the township in the same manner as if the applicant had
deposited its proportionate cost with the township, as provided herein.
   (E)   Installation of improvements by applicant.
      (1)   At the discretion and option of the township and with the consent
of the applicant, the township may enter into a contract with the applicant
providing for the installation and construction of off-tract improvements by
the applicant upon contribution by the township of the remaining unallocated
portion of the cost of the off-tract improvement.
      (2)   In the event that the township so elects to contribute to the cost
and expense of installation of the off-site improvements by the applicant, the
portion contributed by the township shall be subject to possible certification
and assessment as a local improvement against benefiting property owners in the
manner provided by law, if applicable.
   (F)   Compliance with design criteria. Should the applicant and the township
enter into a contract for the construction and erection of the off-tract
improvements to be done by the applicant, the applicant shall observe all
requirements and principals of Title 15 in the design of such improvements.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06)
§ 156.035 ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES.
   These rules, regulations and standards shall be considered the minimum
requirements for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the township. Any action taken by the township under the terms of
this chapter shall give primary consideration to the above mentioned matters
and to the welfare of the entire community.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.036 WAIVERS.
   The Planning Board or, if applicable, the Zoning Board of Adjustment, when
acting upon applications for minor site plans, minor subdivisions, preliminary
major subdivisions and preliminary major site plans, shall have the power to
grant such exceptions from the requirements for such subdivision or site plan
approval as specified in this chapter if an applicant can clearly demonstrate
that because of peculiar conditions, literal enforcement of one or more of said
requirements is impracticable or will exact undue hardship. However, any
exception granted by the Planning Board, or Zoning Board of Adjustment if
applicable, must be reasonable and within the general purpose and intent of the
rules, regulations and standards established by Title 15.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.037 ZONING OFFICER; ZONING PERMITS; CERTIFICATES OF CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Zoning Officer.
      (1)   The Township Committee shall appoint a Zoning Officer for the
purposes of administering this chapter and related land use ordinances.
      (2)   Duties of the Zoning Officer shall be as follows:
         (a)   To interpret this chapter in accordance with its literal intent.
The Zoning Officer shall not have the power to permit any construction,
subdivision, or change of use of land or building which is in strict accordance
with the terms of this chapter.
         (b)   To be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter, including
investigation of complaints arising from this chapter and the prosecution of
violations of it.
         (c)   Upon the request of the Planning Board or the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, to present such facts, records or similar information so as to
assist those agencies in making a decision in a matter brought before it.
         (d)   To be responsible for issuing permits as described below.
            1.   Zoning permits. A document signed by the Zoning Officer (1)
which is required by this chapter as a condition precedent to the commencement
of a use or the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion
or installation of a structure or building and (2) which acknowledges that such
use, structure or building complies with the provisions of this chapter or a
variance therefrom duly authorized by the Planning Board or Zoning Board of
Adjustment pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.  Zoning permits shall be valid
for one year from the date of issue.
            2.   Subdivision approval certificates. A document certifying
whether or not a subdivision has been duly approved by the Planning Board and
issued to a prospective purchaser, prospective mortgagee or any other person
interested in any land in the township. A request for a subdivision approval
certificate must be in writing and must contain a diagram showing the location
and dimension of the land to be covered by the certificate and the name of the
owner thereof.
            3.   Certificates of Conformance. A document more fully described
in §
156.037 below.
   (B)   Issuance of zoning permits.
      (1)   Zoning permits shall hereinafter be secured from the Zoning Officer
prior to construction, erection or alteration of any structure or part of a
structure or use of a structure or land. All requests for zoning permits shall
be made, in writing, by the owner or his authorized agent and shall include the
following:
         (a)   A statement of the use or intended use of the building or
structure or land;
         (b)   Two copies of a sealed survey plan showing thereon the exact
size, shape and location of all proposed structures and all existing
structures, metes and bounds description, showing dimensions, bearings, etc.,
the location of the required building envelope, any easements or other
restrictions from the approved subdivision, the proposed setbacks from all
property lines for the proposed dwelling unit, garage, deck, etc. and such
other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this
chapter;
         (c)   Written verification that all federal, state, county and local
agency permits and approvals required for the construction, erection or
alteration of such structure or the use of the building or structure or land
have been obtained; and
         (d)   Written verification issued by the Township Tax Collector
stating that all real property taxes and sewer assessments chargeable to the
property or properties for which such application is being made, except for
taxes and assessments which are not yet due and payable on the date such
application is received by the Zoning Officer, are paid in full and that
written verification that CCMUA sewer connection permit(s) has (have) been
received. No zoning permit shall be issued by the Zoning Officer unless and
until all real property taxes and sewer assessments and all fines and penalties
chargeable to the property or properties for which such permit is sought have
been paid in full.
      (2)   Each request for a zoning permit for the construction of one or
more dwelling units in a Township Center Zone, in addition to the requirements
of §
156.037(B)(1) above, shall be accompanied by a plan showing thereon the size,
shape and location of all open space uses, as defined and as may be required
for such construction under the applicable provisions of Chapter 152, and by
copies of deeds or other documents indicating that any open space use areas
required are either publicly owned or have been dedicated to public use or are
to be located on an improved lot or are subject to appropriate restrictions or
covenants assuring that a private person, firm, association, corporation or
agency will be responsible for the maintenance of such areas and that the
township will have power to enforce such restrictions or covenants in the
absence of enforcement by such private person, firm, association, corporation
or agency as long as the dwelling units sought to be constructed are in
existence.
      (3)   If the holder of any permit issued by the Zoning Officer pursuant
to this §
156.037 shall become delinquent in the payment of property taxes or sewer
assessments for any property located in the township, which delinquency
commences after the date such permit is issued and continues for at least three
consecutive quarters, the Zoning Officer may revoke such permit. Upon delivery
to the Zoning Officer of written verification issued by the Township Tax
Collector that all such delinquent taxes, plus all penalties and interest due
thereon, have been paid in full, the Zoning Officer shall reinstate such
permit.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning Officer may waive the
requirements of §
156.037(B)(1) or §
156.037(B)(3) above if, in the exercise of his reasonable discretion, the
interests of the township would be better served by such deviation from the
specific requirements thereof.
      (5)   Grading plan checklist.
         (a)   Any development projects within the Township which involve
grading or disturbing of surface dirt of more than 500 square feet shall
require a review of the proposed plan and an inspection prior to and as a
condition of the issuance of a zoning permit.
         (b)   Such reviews and inspections shall be performed by the Township
Engineer or other such official as designated by the Township Committee.
         (c)   Prior to the review or scheduling of the inspections, the
developer shall post with the Township an escrow amount to cover the costs of
the inspection equal to $500 per lot. The escrow amounts shall be managed in
accordance with the Municipal Land Use Law.
         (d)   No work shall be permitted on any activities covered by this
section until such time as a review of the plans is conducted and an approval
of the plans is issued by the reviewing official.
         (e)   The Township adopts a Grading Plan Checklist to be incorporated
into the Unified Land Development Code in the form attached to Ordinance 112-
07, as same may be amended from time to time, and incorporated herein by
reference.
   (C)   Certificates of conformance.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building,
structure or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered or enlarged wholly or partly in its use or structure until a
certificate of conformance permitting the occupancy thereof shall have been
applied for and issued therefor by the Zoning Officer. Such certificate of
conformance shall show that such building, structure or premises or part
thereof is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and all ordinances
of the township, site plan and subdivision approvals and determinations of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment which pertain to such building, structure or
premises or part thereof.
      (2)   A certificate of conformance, where new construction is involved,
shall be issued by the Zoning Officer when all other approvals listed under §
156.037(C)(3) below are verified. Such certificate of conformance shall be in
addition to and not in substitution for any other certificates, permits or
inspections required by any other provisions of the Township Codes relating to
the completion and/or occupancy of the new building and/or site construction.
      (3)   (a)   No certificate of conformance may be issued by the Zoning
Officer unless the Zoning Officer verifies that all construction or
improvements and development on the site have been completed in accordance with
and conform to the plans, whether site plans or subdivision plans, finally
approved by the reviewing board. As part of the review for residential
subdivisions for detached units a lot grading plan shall be submitted for each
lot.
         (b)   An as-built survey shall be submitted including dimensions,
setbacks for all structures, parking spaces, building envelope, fencing,
signage, etc.
      (4)   The following approvals shall be verified prior to the issuance of
a certificate of conformance (if the same are applicable):
         (a)   Local and CCMUA sewer connection permit fees paid.
         (b)   Recreation fee paid.
         (c)   Maintenance bond posted.
         (d)   Final Engineering approval received.
         (e)   Education fee paid.
         (f)   County Board of Health approval received.
         (g)   Any other federal, state, county or local agency approvals
applicable to the particular property/use have been received.
         (h)   The zoning officer may require an as-built survey to determine
appropriateness of the proposal.
      (5)   Prior to any change of tenancy or ownership (even if tenancy does
not change) of any residential dwelling, building, structure or premises or
part thereof, including but not limited to condominium units, a certificate of
conformance must be obtained by the owner.
         (a)   Such certificate of conformance shall be issued by the Zoning
Officer if the following are found to be true:
            1.   Smoke detectors have been installed and are determined to be
in good working order as required by state law;
            2.   Building numbering has been installed in compliance with §§
98.35 through
98.40 of the Township Code;
            3.   There are no outstanding violations of any provision of Title
15 of the Township Code relating to additions, decking, fencing, sheds, above
ground or in ground swimming or other pools, gazebos or other similar
structures or appurtenances which have been previously installed or constructed
on such property, dwelling, building, structure or premises or part thereof;
and
            4.   A current sealed survey for a residential property or a
certificate of survey for condominium units shall be submitted to the Zoning
Officer. The Zoning Officer may waive this requirement if the lending
institution, in the case of a refinance transaction only, is not requiring a
new survey.
         (b)   No other criteria shall be considered in connection with the
issuance or denial of a certificate of conformance pursuant to this §
156.037(C)(5). In all other cases, applications for a certificate of
conformance shall be processed in accordance with the other provisions of this
§§
156.037, as may be applicable.
      (6)   Prior to any change of tenant or ownership (even if tenancy shall
not change) of any multifamily residential dwelling, building, structure or
premises or any part thereof, including, but not limited to, multifamily
dwellings converted to condominium or cooperative ownership, a certificate of
conformance shall be obtained by the owner. Such certificate of conformance
shall be issued by the Zoning Officer if the following are found to be true:
         (a)   Smoke detectors have been installed and are determined to be in
good working order as required by state law;
         (b)   Building numbering has been installed in compliance with §§
98.35 through
98.40 of the Township Code;
         (c)   There are no outstanding violations of Title 15 of the Township
Code;
         (d)   There are no outstanding violations of the site plan and/or
subdivision approval(s) applicable to such building, structure or premises or
part thereof;
         (e)   There are no outstanding violations of §§
96.01 through
96.05 of the Township Code governing parking area maintenance; and
         (f)   The owner/seller has provided written verification to the Zoning
Officer that signed copies of the approved site plan for the property have been
provided to the buyer.
      (7)   Prior to any change of tenancy, use or ownership (even if tenancy
shall not change) or any nonresidential building, structure or premises or part
thereof, including but not limited to condominium units, a certificate of
conformance shall be obtained by the owner. Such certificate of conformance
shall be issued by the Zoning Officer if the following are found to be true:
         (a)   Proof of a satisfactory fire protection inspection by the
appropriate local code official;
         (b)   Building numbering has been installed as required by §§
98.35 through
98.40 of the Township Code;
         (c)   There are no outstanding violations of Title 15 of the Township
Code;
         (d)   There are no outstanding violations of the site plan and/or
subdivision approval(s) applicable to such building, structure or premises or
part thereof; and
         (e)   There are no outstanding violations of §§
96.01 through
96.05 of the Township Code governing parking area maintenance.
         (f)   The owner/seller has provided written verification to the Zoning
Officer that signed copies of the approved site plan for the property have been
provided to the buyer.
         (g)   The zoning officer may require an as-built survey to determine
appropriateness of the proposal.
      (8)   The owner/seller shall be responsible for making application for a
certificate of conformance and obtaining the same prior to occupancy of any
dwelling, building, structure or premises or part thereof by any transferee,
assignee, tenant or other third party. The owner/seller shall be liable for
penalties pursuant to §
156.040 if such owner/seller fails to file an application for a certificate of
conformance when one is required by this section.
      (9)   A temporary certificate of conformance may be issued by the Zoning
Officer as follows:
         (a)   Residential (change of tenant or ownership). If the Zoning
Officer determines that a certificate of conformance for the change of tenant
or ownership or residential property cannot be issued because the property
contains improvements which violate the Township Code, improvements which were
made without the necessary approvals and/or permits and/or modifications to the
property are necessary to make the property comply with the Township Code, the
Zoning Officer may issue a temporary certificate of conformance if the
following conditions are met:
            1.   The applicant applies for all approvals and permits necessary
to cause the property to come into compliance with the Township Code. If the
Zoning Board of Adjustment does not approve the improvement which is the
subject of the necessary approval or permit, the improvement must be removed.
            2.   The prospective buyer or tenant must acknowledge, on forms
provided by the Zoning Officer, the violation or noncompliance and the fact
that, if the Zoning Board does not approve the improvement, the improvement
must be removed.
            3.   In the case of a sale of property, the seller shall complete
the approval process unless the buyer expressly agrees, in writing, to complete
the process.
         (b)   Nonresidential (change of tenant or refinance). A temporary
certificate of conformance for a part of a building, structure or premises may
be issued by the Zoning Officer as the Zoning Officer, in the exercise of his
reasonable professional judgment, determines.
      (10)   All applications for certificates of conformance shall be received
by the Zoning Officer and shall be granted or denied by the Zoning Officer
within ten business days after receipt of such written applications. All
applications for certificates of conformance for a change of use, change in
ownership and/or change in tenant shall also include written verification
issued by the Township Tax Collector stating that all real property taxes and
sewer assessments and all tax liens held by the township and chargeable to the
property or properties for which such application is being made, except for
taxes and assessments which are not yet due and payable on the date such
application is received by the Zoning Officer, are paid in full.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Zoning Officer may waive the requirements of
this §
156.037(C)(10) if, in the exercise of his reasonable discretion, the interests
of the township would be better served by such deviation from the specific
requirements hereof.
      (11)   The Zoning Officer shall be responsible for carrying out all
necessary liaison with other municipal officials whose inspection and approval
are required for the issuance of a certificate of conformance pursuant to this
§
156.037(C).
      (12)   Upon written request from an owner, the Zoning Officer shall issue
a certificate of conformance for any building, structure or premises,
certifying, after inspection, the extent and kind of use made of the building,
structure or premises and whether such use conforms to the provisions of Title
15.
      (13)   As to multifamily dwellings which are converted to condominium
ownership or cooperative ownership under the provisions of N.J.S.A. 46:8B-8 or
46:8D-5, the conversation from ownership of individual units in a building,
either under the condominium statute or the cooperative statute, shall
constitute a change of ownership within the meaning of this section, and the
owner shall be required to obtain a certificate of conformance from the Zoning
Officer pursuant to this section prior to the transfer of ownership, either by
deed or stock transfer. The requirements of this section shall apply even
though the unit may have been occupied by the buyer prior to the proposed
transfer. Certificates of conformance for a change of ownership or tenant shall
become null and void 60 days after a fire certificate is issued if settlement
or occupancy is not achieved within that time. If the premises fails
inspection, the applicant has 30 days in which to bring the premises into
compliance after which a summons may be issued.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 85-06, passed 4-24-06; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 156.038 PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   No approval, permit or certificate for any of the following shall be given
to an application or to an applicant if any taxes or assessments for local
improvements are due or delinquent on the property for which the application is
made: preliminary and final site plan; preliminary and final subdivision; minor
subdivision; minor site plan; bulk variance; use variance; conditional use;
zoning permit or subdivision approval certificate. An application for approval
or issuance of any of the above items shall not be deemed complete and shall
not be considered by the applicable municipal agency unless the applicant
submits with the application a certification signed by an authorized
representative of the Voorhees Township Tax Collector's office stating that no
taxes or assessments as described above are due or delinquent on the subject
property.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.039 RETURN OF FEES PAID UPON WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   If an applicant for site plan approval, subdivision approval, zoning permit
or certificate of conformance withdraws such application or request prior to
action by the Planning Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment or issuance of the
permit or certificate, the fees paid for such approval, permit or certificate
shall be refunded to the applicant, except that the township shall be permitted
to retain such portion of such fees necessary to pay for actual out-of-pocket
expenses incurred by the township in connection with such application
(including but not limited to engineering and legal review charges) and an
administrative charge equal to 25% of the fees paid by such applicant.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.040 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer of the township to
administer and enforce the provisions of Title 15. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Police Department, Fire Department and Code Enforcement Official
shall notify the Zoning Officer of any violation that they determine exists. No
new structure shall be erected unless a certificate of conformance is obtained
from the Zoning Officer, and no structure or lot shall be used in violation of
Title 15.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer to inspect the structures
and land in the township and order the owner, in writing, to remedy any
condition found to exist in violation of the provision(s) of Title 15 or any
condition in violation of any application for development as duly approved by
the township under the terms of Title 15. For purposes of this inspection, the
Zoning Officer shall have the right to enter any premises during reasonable
hours, subject to due process of law. The owner shall have five days within
which time to respond to the notice of purported violations and indicate the
remedies to be taken.
   (C)   Upon notice being served of any land use existing in violation of any
provisions(s) of Title 15, the certificate of conformance for such use shall
thereupon, without further notice, be null and void, and a new certificate of
conformance shall be required for any further use of the structure or land.
   (D)   The Zoning Officer shall not issue any zoning permit or certificate of
conformance for any structure or use which does not conform to the provisions
of Title 15.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Officer, upon the filing with him
of any application for a zoning permit or certificate of conformance, to
require the owner or agent of such structure or land to certify in writing the
use or intended use of any structure or land do to be constructed, altered or
required, and he shall thereupon determine if such structure or use is
permitted by the provisions of Title 15. In case he shall determine that such
structure or use, or both, is nonconforming, he shall notify such owner or
agent in writing to that effect, stating in what respect such structure or use
is a nonconforming structure or use.
   (F)   Any owner, lessee, tenant, contractor or other person or persons who
violate any provision of this
Chapter 156, or who excavate, remove soil or clear a site or place any fill on
a site without, in each instance, first obtaining any required permits or
approvals pursuant to this Chapter 156, must cure such violation within 5 days
after receiving written notice of such violation, by registered mail or by
personal service.
   (G)   In addition to all other remedies available under this §
156.040, any sign that is not in compliance with §
150.15 of this Title 15 may be confiscated by the Zoning Officer.
   (H)   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall be deemed to be a
separate violation.
   (I)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to limit the right
of any interested person to initiate the prosecution of any person or persons
believed to be in violation of this chapter.
§ 156.041 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   In addition to all other remedies available to the township under the
Township Code, Title 15 and §
156.001 et seq., the Zoning Officer may issue a stop-work order in accordance
with the following:
   (A)   Where any owner, lessee, tenant, contractor or any other person or
persons is violating the provisions of this chapter by excavating, removing
soil, clearing the site or placing any fill on the site without, in each
instance, first obtaining all required permits and approvals and posting all
required guaranties and escrows, the Zoning Officer or his designee may issue
an immediate stop-work order to cease all activities which are in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any owner, contractor or other person or persons interested as lessee,
tenant or otherwise, in any building or premises who refused to stop work
immediately may be subject to the penalty provisions of §
156.041(A) above.
   (C)   Each and every day that such violation continues after such notice
shall be deemed a separate and specific violation of this chapter.
   (D)   If any owner, lessee, tenant, contractor or other person or persons
who has excavated, removed soil from or cleared a site or who has placed fill
on a site, does not obtain all required permits and approvals required under
this
Chapter 156 within 30 days after receipt of a stop work order, in addition to
all other remedies or penalties imposed upon him/her/it under law or in
accordance with this section, the owner, lessee, tenant, contractor or other
person or persons in violation must restore the premises to the condition in
which they existed before the violation by the replacement of any trees and
shrubbery that may have been destroyed, seeding where the soil has been
disturbed and restoring the premises to the previous contours and grades, all
of which shall be under the direction of the Township Engineer.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.042 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Township Committee,
after the appropriate referrals, notices, hearings and other requirements of
law.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.043 PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the hearing on adoption of a zoning ordinance or any
amendments thereto, the Township Committee shall refer any such proposed
ordinance or amendment thereto to the Planning Board pursuant to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The Planning Board shall issue a report within 35 days of referral
by the Township Committee which identifies any portion of the proposed
development regulation, revision or amendment which is inconsistent with the
master plan and any recommendations concerning these inconsistencies.
      (2)   The Planning Board may include in its report any other matter which
it deems appropriate.
      (3)   Failure of the Planning Board to render a report within the
prescribed time period shall relieve the Township Committee of its
responsibility to wait for that report before acting on the proposed
development regulation, revision or amendment.
   (B)   After receipt of the Planning Board report, or after the expiration of
the time allocated for delivery of that report, the Township Committee shall
conduct a public hearing on the merits of the proposed development regulation,
revision or amendment.
   (C)   The Township Committee shall evaluate the proposed amendment for its
consistency with the master plan.
   (D)   The Township Committee may enact an amendment which is in whole or
part inconsistent with the master plan and which is not designed to effectuate
the land use plan or housing plan elements but only by an affirmative vote of a
majority of its full authorized membership. In that instance, the reasons for
the action of the Township Committee shall be set forth in a resolution and
recorded in the minutes of the Township Committee.
   (E)   A protest against any proposed amendment or revision of a zoning
ordinance may be filed with the Township Clerk, signed by the owners of 20% or
more of the area either (a) of the lots or land included in such proposed
change, or (b) of the lots or land within 200 feet in all directions therefrom
inclusive of street space, whether within or without the township. In the event
such a protest is filed, the amendment or revision shall require the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of all members of the Township Committee.
   (F)   No zoning amendment shall be submitted to or adopted by initiative or
referendum.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.044 SEVERABILITY, REPEALER, AND COMPLIANCE WITH MUNICIPAL LAND USE LAW.
   (A)   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity as a whole or of any other part thereof.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provisions of §
156.030 through §
156.033, if any provisions of §
156.030 through §
156.033 conflict with or are in violation of any provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
53 through 53.5, the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53 through 53.5 shall
control. In any instance where the specific provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53
through 53.5 provide discretion to the municipality, the specific provisions of
§ 156.30 through 156.33 shall govern and control the posting of performance
guaranties, maintenance guaranties and all escrows.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 156.999 FINES AND PENALTIES.
   If any violation of Title 15 is not cured as required under any written
notice of such violation issued by the Zoning Officer, the owner, lessee,
tenant, contractor or other person or persons in violation may be subject to
incarceration for not more than 90 days, 90 days of community service or a fine
of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or all or any combination of the
above, in the discretion of the court or judicial officer before whom the
alleged violation may be heard. Each and every day that such violation
continues after such notice shall be deemed a separate and specific violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 956-99, passed 11-8-99)
CHAPTER 157: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 158: SCHEDULES 
Section
   
158.01   (Reserved)
   
158.02   Submission requirements checklist A
   
158.03   Submission requirements checklist B
   
158.04   Environmental Impact Report requirements
   
158.05   Sustainable development statement requirements
§ 158.01 (RESERVED).
§ 158.02 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST A
[Click_here_to_view_Checklist_A_in_Adobe_PDF]
(Am. Ord. 3-02, passed 1-28-02; Am. Ord. 124-08, passed 4-14-08)
§ 158.03 SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST B
[Click_here_to_view_Checklist_B_in_Adobe_PDF]
§ 158.04 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   Project identification and description. The project identification and
description shall fully describe the project including all proposed facilities
and activities to be conducted on the site and shall include the items in the
following list as applicable. This information may be included in the text of
the EIR or on exhibits and drawings that are included in and made a part of the
EIR:
      (1)   Project name.
      (2)   Tax map identification of all real estate parcels included in the
project.
      (3)   Streets abutting the project site.
      (4)   Current and proposed zoning classification.
      (5)   Present and proposed land use and current use of adjacent
properties.
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner,
applicant, their respective legal counsel, president or managing partner of
applicant, applicants engineer or other representative with direct
responsibility for the design of the project and the person preparing the EIR.
      (7)   Area of the project site and the area to be disturbed by the
project.
      (8)   Area of existing and proposed roadways.
      (9)   Number, square footage and function of existing and proposed
buildings.
      (10)   Total area of other existing and proposed impervious areas.
      (11)   For subdivisions, the total number of proposed lots and the
minimum and maximum lot size.
      (12)   Construction sequence and schedule for the project (and each phase
of the project if the project will be constructed in phase) including estimated
duration of construction and proposed daily work start and stop times.
      (13)   Existing and proposed land elevations and contours.
      (14)   First floor elevations for all existing and proposed buildings.
      (15)   All surface water bodies, wetlands, water supply wells on or
within 500 feet of the project site.
      (16)   A key map utilizing the appropriate USGS quadrangle map showing
the location of the project site.
      (17)   A location plan showing the project site and all properties within
200 feet of the project site drawn to a scale not less than 1 inch = 50 feet.
      (18)   Proposed erosion control methods during construction.
      (19)   Proposed storm water runoff control system.
      (20)   Proposed landscaping plan.
   (B)   Environmental inventory. The Environmental Inventory shall describe
the current use(s) of the project site and all existing environmental features
and conditions on or affecting the project site. The Environmental Inventory
shall include, but not be limited to, the following features and conditions:
      (1)   Ground and surface water hydrology and wetlands. Identify and
describe the watershed in which the site is located, surface water bodies,
ground water aquifers, wells and wetlands. The description of these features
shall include a discussion of physical and chemical water quality, applicable
stream and aquifer classifications, applicable wetland resource classifications
and existing well head protection measures.
      (2)   Air quality. Describe the ambient air quality in the vicinity of
the site.
      (3)   Noise vibration. Describe ambient noise levels and sources of noise
and potential off-site noise and vibrant impacts of the project or the means
and methods of construction.
      (4)   Topography. Describe the topography of the site including minimum
and maximum ground elevations and identification of slopes in excess of 15%.
      (5)   Soils. Describe the soils at the site including physical and
chemical characteristics, infiltration and percolation capacity, stability of
slopes in excess of 15% and any existing erosion problems.
      (6)   Potable water supply. Identify the current source(s) of potable
water to the site including public or private water supply wells and the
availability of a public community water supply system.
      (7)   Sanitary sewage disposal. Describe the existing and past method(s)
of disposal for sanitary sewage at the site including existing or abandoned
cesspools, septic systems, drain fields and the existing availability of a
public sanitary sewage collection system.
      (8)   Storm water. Describe the natural storm water runoff directions as
well as any existing controls or stormwater management facilities, their
discharge point from the site and the receiving stream. Indicate if the site is
within an aquifer recharge area.
      (9)   Solid waste disposal. Describe the existing source(s) and type(s)
of solid waste generated at the site and existing methods of collection and
disposal or recycling.
      (10)   Hazardous materials. Describe the source(s) and type(s) of
hazardous materials (as defined in applicable NJDEP regulations) generated,
used, stored or disposed at the site. The EIR shall include a copy of any
existing inventory of materials that the owner or operator of the site is
required to provide to the local emergency response committee pursuant to the
state or federal Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Acts.
      (11)   Vegetation. Describe the existing vegetation on the site and shall
identify the presence of endangered or threatened species.
      (12)   Wildlife. Describe the known fish and wildlife species that
inhabit the site and shall identify the presence of endangered or threatened
species.
      (13)   Cultural or historic features. Describe the past uses of the site
and any features or conditions of cultural or historical interest on the site.
   (C)   Environmental impact assessment. The EIR shall describe and assess the
actual and probable impact of the project on each of the features and
conditions described in division (B). This assessment shall be supported by
objective date where appropriate. This assessment shall discuss the direct,
incidental and consequential impacts of the project both during and after
construction and shall specifically identify all permanent or adverse impacts
of the project that cannot be avoided if the project is approved.
   (D)   Mitigation and remedial measures. The EIR shall describe the
mitigation and remedial measures and project components that the applicant will
use to eliminate or minimize the unavoidable or adverse impacts of the project
on each of the features and conditions described in division (B).
   (E)   Alternatives. The EIR shall describe the alternatives to the project
that were considered by the applicant and the reasons that the applicant
rejected those alternatives. These alternatives should include, but not be
limited to, other locations for the project, other projects for the site, other
configurations and sizes for the project and the “no action” alternative.
   (F)   Permits. The EIR shall include a list of all state and federal permits
or approvals required to construct the project and the status of each permit or
approval as of the date of the EIR.
(Ord. 35-00, passed 12-28-00)
§ 158.05 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STATEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Statement description. The Sustainable Development Statement is intended to
elicit information on the use of various sustainable development practices in
the Township. Completion of the statement is required for major subdivision and
minor and major site plan applications. Although implementation of the
statement items is encouraged, compliance is not a condition of approval unless
otherwise specified by law. The completed statement shall include full
descriptive answers to all applicable items in the following list:
   (A)   Existing context.
      (1)   Description of the project site as an undeveloped, developed,
brownfield, or infill location;
      (2)   Description of the project site as currently served by public
transit, pedestrian, or bicycle networks;
      (3)   Description of the project site as currently served by rail
(distance) or bus services (distance);
      (4)   Description of any roads within the project site as currently
meeting Complete Streets standards;
      (5)   Description of the project site as currently part of a district
energy or water infrastructure;
      (6)   Description of the project site as currently part of a regional
stormwater management system;
      (7)   Description of the project site as currently integrating:
         (a)   A mix of land use types;
         (b)   Housing diversity by type and income;
         (c)   Land use densities greater than the current zoning or
surrounding context;
         (d)   Historic preservation and/or adaptive reuse of existing
facilities;
         (e)   Civic and/or public spaces or proximity to them;
         (f)   Recreation facilities and/or green space/parks or proximity to
them;
         (g)   Local food production or opportunities for Community Supported
Agriculture (CSA) or farmers' markets;
         (h)   Definable natural landscape and/or waterscape features;
         (i) Dedicated federal, state, and/or municipal open space;
         (j)   Any association with an integrated ecological network;
         (k)   Alternative parking designs such as reduced parking ratios, a
percentage of compact stalls, banked parking, shared parking, priority parking
for low emission vehicles, charging stations, and/or provisions for bicycle
storage;
   (B)   Site development.
      (1)   Description the site plan's provisions for:
         (a)   Minimum site disturbance during construction;
         (b)   Increased erosion and sedimentation control beyond statutory
requirements;
         (c)   Low impact design features, including, but not limited to, bio-
swales, rain gardens, green roofs, pervious pavements, green walls, indigenous
plant species, non-invasive plant species, low-maintenance landscaping, and
onsite management of vegetative waste;
         (d)   Regenerative design features, including, but not limited to,
conservation, restoration, and/or long-term conservation management of habitat,
wetlands, or water bodies.
      (2)   Description of the site plan's provisions for minimizing heat
island effects through reduced paving, landscaping or other methods;
      (3)   Description of the site plan's provisions for light pollution
reduction and energy efficient site lighting and controls;
      (4)   Description of the site plan's provisions for landscape and
stormwater maintenance specifications that employ integrated pest management
post-bond to assure implementation for five years after occupancy;
      (5)   Description of the site plan's provisions for the inclusion of
public art and opportunities for civic events;
      (6)   Description of the site plan's provisions for integrating:
         (a)   A mix of land use types;
         (b)   Housing diversity by type and income;
         (c)   Land use densities greater than the current zoning or
surrounding context;
         (d)   Historic preservation and/or adaptive reuse of existing
facilities;
         (e)   Civic and/or public spaces;
         (f)   Recreation facilities and/or green space/parks;
         (g)   Local food production or opportunities for Community Supported
Agriculture (CSA) or farmers' markets;
         (h)   Preservation of definable natural landscape and/or waterscape
features;
         (i)   Dedication of open space and/or conservation easement(s);
         (j)   Alternative parking designs such as reduced parking ratios, a
percentage of compact stalls,
banked parking, shared parking, priority parking for low emission vehicles,
charging stations, and/or provisions for bicycle storage;
         (k)   A plan for promoting and educating people on green features.
   (C)   Construction and improvements.
      (1)   Construction.
         (a)   Description of the use of Certified Green (LEED) Building
criteria;
         (b)   Description of the use of building orientation to maximize
benefits of daylighting, view sheds, and energy and to minimize detrimental
impacts on surrounding sites;
         (c)   Description of the use of respect for current site scale and
context in building design.
      (2)   Water.
         (a)   Description, by percentage, of the reduction in water use beyond
minimum water efficiency standards set by the EPA and local government;
         (b)   Description of the use of water conservation features including,
but not limited to, low-flow fixtures, waterless urinals, sensor-controlled
fixtures, and/or Water Sense-labeled products;
         (c)   Description of the use of rainwater, gray water, and/or storm
water capture and re-use;
         (d)   Description of the use of onsite wastewater treatment and ground
recharge.
      (3)   Energy.
         (a)   Description of the use of energy usage reduction through
efficient heating and cooling, geothermal technology, enhanced daylighting,
efficient lighting, occupant controls and/or an efficient building envelope;
         (b)   Description of the use of Energy Star-labeled products;
         (c)   Description of the use of onsite renewable energy generation,
including anticipated energy cost savings and carbon emission reductions.
      (4)   Indoor air.
         (a)   Description of the use of natural ventilation and the efficient
use of outdoor air during heating and cooling periods;
         (b)   Description of any other measures being used to improve indoor
air quality.
      (5)   Materials.
         (a)   Description of the construction waste management plans in place;
         (b)   Description of the solid waste management plans in place;
         (c)   Description, by material and percentage, of the reuse of
existing building materials;
         (d)   Description of the use of new building materials containing
recycled content;
         (e)   Description of the use of new building materials sourced within
the region (distance).
      (6)   Social.
         (a)   Description of the implementation of indigenously inspired art
in the landscape (rate of one installation per building or per residential
units).
   (D)   General. Description of any other steps heretofore unmentioned to
promote green building and sustainable development practices.
(Ord. 277-16, passed 3-28-16)
CHAPTER 159: CONSTRUCTION CODE
Section
   
159.01   Enforcement
   
159.02   Issuance of construction permits
   
159.03   Issuance of certificates of occupancy
   
159.04   Fees
   
159.05   Adoption of standards by reference
   
159.06   Flood damage prevention
§ 159.01 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Construction Code Official to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. No new structure shall be erected
unless a building permit is obtained from the construction official and no
structure or lot shall be used in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 159.02 ISSUANCE OF CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Every application for a construction permit shall be accompanied by
three sets of plans drawn in ink or a blueprint showing the actual shape and
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact location, size and height of
all existing and proposed structures and substructures, a grading plan showing
existing and proposed conditions and sufficient offsite grades to evaluate
drainage, all existing easements, the existing or intended use of each
structure, the number of dwelling units the structure is designed to
accommodate, the number of location of off-street parking spaces and off-street
loading areas and such other information with regard to the lot and neighboring
lots as may be necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this
chapter. All dimensions on these plans relating to the location and size of the
lot to be built upon shall be based on a survey of the lot prepared by a
licensed surveyor in the State of New Jersey.
   (B)   A fee shall be charged for each construction permit in accordance with
the applicable ordinances of the township.
   (C)   A construction permit shall be granted or denied in writing within 20
working days from the date a complete application has been submitted, unless
additional time is agreed to in writing by the applicant. One copy of such plan
shall be returned to the owner when such plans shall have been approved or
denied by the Construction Official, together with such permit as may be
granted.
   (D)   The lot and location of the structure(s) thereon shall be staked out
on the grounds before construction is started, and a copy of the construction
permit shall be posted conspicuously on the premises affected whenever
construction work is being performed thereon.
   (E)   No construction permit shall be issued for any structure until prior
site plan, subdivision and variance approvals, as may be necessary, have been
granted by the appropriate municipal agency or municipal agencies in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and until all review and inspection fees on
the property have been paid.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 159.03 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any structure or part
thereof, either occupied by a new use or occupant or hereafter erected,
altered, converted or enlarged, wholly or in part, until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Construction Official. Upon the
completion of any building or alteration in compliance with this chapter and
any other ordinance, rule or regulation, the owner or his agent may apply to
the Construction Official, in writing, for the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy pursuant to the provisions of this section, but only when:
      (1)   The structure or part(s) thereof and the proposed use conform to
this chapter and all other applicable codes and ordinances of the township.
      (2)   Prior site plan, subdivision and variance approvals, as may be
necessary, have been granted by the appropriate municipal agency or municipal
agencies in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   All local taxes and assessments on the property have been paid.
      (4)   A letter from each utility company has been received by the
township stating that the utility has been inspected in accordance with the
approved plan and is ready for use.
   (B)   A fee shall be charged for each certificate of occupancy in accordance
with the applicable ordinances of the township.
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy shall be granted or denied in writing
within 10 days from the date that a written notification is filed with the
Construction Official that the erection of the structure is completed, unless
additional time is agreed upon by the applicant in writing.
   (D)   With respect to any subdivision and/or site plan, or subsection
thereof, granted final approval, a certificate of occupancy shall be issued
only upon the completion of the following improvements as such improvements may
be required as part of subdivision and/or site plan approval:
      (1)   Curbs.
      (2)   All utilities.
      (3)   Water supply and sewage treatment facilities, which shall be
functioning and serving the property in question.
      (4)   Storm water drainage facilities.
      (5)   Rough grading of the property.
      (6)   Base course of the street or streets serving the property.
      (7)   Base course of driveways and parking areas.
   (E)   With respect to any individual residential lot within a subdivision, a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued only upon the completion of the
following improvements, in addition to those listed in subsection (D) above, to
the extend the same are required as part of the subdivision approval:
      (1)   Sidewalks.
      (2)   Driveway aprons.
      (3)   Street names and regulatory signs.
   (F)   A copy of any issued certificate of occupancy shall be kept on file at
the premises affected and shall be shown to the Construction Official upon
request.
   (G)   Should the Construction Official decline to issue a certificate of
occupancy, his reasons for doing so shall be stated on two copies of the
application and one copy shall be returned to the applicant.
   (H)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a new structure
or use for which site approval has been granted even if not all conditions of
said approval have been complied with. Such temporary certificate of occupancy
shall be issued only in extenuating circumstances and only with the approval of
the Construction Official, who shall establish specific terms and conditions,
including, but not limited to, a time limit for the installation of the
uncompleted improvements and the receipt of an appropriate performance
guarantee assuring the installation of the improvements as indicated on the
approved plat or plan.
   (I)   A monthly report on the certificates of occupancy issued shall be
filed with the Tax Assessor. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be
kept in the office of the Construction Official, and copies shall be furnished
upon request to any person having a proprietary to tenancy interest in the
structure or land affected. The charge for each copy shall be established by
resolution of the Township Committee, except that there shall be no charge to a
municipal agency.
   (J)   The following shall be unlawful until a certificate of occupancy is
issued by the Construction Official:
      (1)   Occupancy and use of a building erected, constructed, restored,
altered or moved or any changes in use of an existing building.
      (2)   Occupancy, use or change in use of vacant land.
      (3)   Any change in the use of a nonconforming use.
      (4)   Occupancy and use of any enlargement to an existing structure.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 112-07, passed 9-24-07; Am. Ord. 266-15,
passed 5-11-15)
§ 159.04 FEES.
   All application and other fees applicable to any application or permit
issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be set annually by ordinance adopted by
the Township Committee.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99)
§ 159.05 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   The New Jersey Uniform Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:23), as may be amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the Township of
Voorhees.
(Ord. 945-99, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 266-15, passed 5-11-15)
§ 159.06 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Scope and administration.
      (1)   Title. These regulations, in combination with the flood provisions
of the Uniform Construction Code (UCC) N.J.A.C. 5:23 (hereinafter "Uniform
Construction Code," consisting of the Building Code, Residential Code,
Rehabilitation Subcode, and related codes, and the New Jersey Flood Hazard Area
Control Act (hereinafter "FHACA"), N.J.A.C. 7:13, shall be known as the
Floodplain Management Regulations of The Township of Voorhees.
      (2)   Scope. These regulations, in combination with the flood provisions
of the Uniform Construction Code and FHACA shall apply to all proposed
development in flood hazard areas established in §
159.06(B) of these regulations.
      (3)   Purposes and objectives. The purposes and objectives of these
regulations are to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific flood
hazard areas through the establishment of comprehensive regulations for
management of flood hazard areas, designed to:
         (a)   Protect human life and health.
         (b)   Prevent unnecessary disruption of commerce, access, and public
service during times of flooding.
         (c)   Manage the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and shorelines;
         (d)   Manage filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage or erosion potential.
         (e)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which
will divert floodwater or increase flood hazards.
         (f)   Contribute to improved construction techniques in the
floodplain.
         (g)   Minimize damage to public and private facilities and utilities.
         (h)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood hazard areas.
         (i)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding.
         (j)   Ensure that property owners, occupants, and potential owners are
aware of property located in flood hazard areas.
         (k)   Minimize the need for future expenditure of public funds for
flood control projects and response to and recovery from flood events.
         (l)   Meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
for community participation set forth in Title 44 Code of Federal Regulations,
Section 59.22.
      (4)   Coordination with Building Codes. Pursuant to the requirement
established in N.J.A.C. 5:23, the Uniform Construction Code, that the Township
of Voorhees administer and enforce the state building codes, the Township
Committee of the Township of Voorhees does hereby acknowledge that the Uniform
Construction Code contains certain provisions that apply to the design and
construction of buildings and structures in flood hazard areas. Therefore,
these regulations are intended to be administered and enforced in conjunction
with the Uniform Construction Code.
      (5)   Ordinary building maintenance and minor work. Improvements defined
as ordinary building maintenance and minor work projects by the Uniform
Construction Code including non-structural replacement-in-kind of windows,
doors, cabinets, plumbing fixtures, decks, walls, partitions, new flooring
materials, roofing, etc. shall be evaluated by the Floodplain Administrator
through the floodplain development permit to ensure compliance with the
Substantial Damage and Substantial Improvement division (C)(14).
      (6)   Warning. The degree of flood protection required by these
regulations is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur.
Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. Enforcement of
these regulations does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas, or that uses permitted within such flood hazard areas, will be free from
flooding or flood damage.
      (7)   Other laws. The provisions of these regulations shall not be deemed
to nullify any provisions of local, state, or federal law.
      (8)   Violations and penalties for noncompliance.
         (a)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, re-located
to, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of
this section and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of
this section by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a violation under N.J.S.A. 40:49-5. Any person who
violates this section or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,250,
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days or a period of community service
not exceeding 90 days.
         (b)   Each day in which a violation of an ordinance exists shall be
considered to be a separate and distinct violation subject to the imposition of
a separate penalty for each day of the violation as the Court may determine
except that the owner will be afforded the opportunity to cure or abate the
condition during a 30 day period and shall be afforded the opportunity for a
hearing before the court for an independent determination concerning the
violation. Subsequent to the expiration of the 30 day period, a fine greater
than $1,250 may be imposed if the court has not determined otherwise, or if
upon reinspection of the property, it is determined that the abatement has not
been substantially completed.
         (c)   Any person who is convicted of violating an ordinance within one
year of the date of a previous violation of the same ordinance and who was
fined for the previous violation, shall be sentenced by a court to an
additional fine as a repeat offender. The additional fine imposed by the court
upon a person for a repeated offense shall not be less than the minimum or
exceed the maximum fine fixed for a violation of the ordinance, but shall be
calculated separately from the fine imposed for the violation of the ordinance.
         (d)   Solid waste disposal in a flood hazard area. Any person who has
unlawfully disposed of solid waste in a floodway or floodplain who fails to
comply with this section or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $2,500 or up to a maximum
penalty by a fine not exceeding $10,000 under N.J.S.A. 40:49-5.
      (9)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. These regulations supersede
any ordinance in effect in flood hazard areas. However, these regulations are
not intended to repeal or abrogate any existing ordinances including land
development regulations, subdivision regulations, zoning ordinances, stormwater
management regulations, or building codes. In the event of a conflict between
these regulations and any other ordinance, code, or regulation, the more
restrictive shall govern.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   General. These regulations, in conjunction with the Uniform
Construction Code, provide minimum requirements for development located in
flood hazard areas, including the subdivision of land and other developments;
site improvements and installation of utilities; placement and replacement of
manufactured homes; placement of recreational vehicles; new construction and
alterations, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or additions of existing
buildings and structures; substantial improvement of existing buildings and
structures, including repair of substantial damage; installation of tanks;
temporary structures and temporary or permanent storage; utility and
miscellaneous Group U buildings and structures; and certain building work
exempt from permit under the Uniform Construction Code; and other buildings and
development activities.
      (2)   Establishment of flood hazard areas. The Township of Voorhees was
accepted for participation in the National Flood Insurance Program on September
1, 1978.
         (a)   The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) floodplain
management regulations encourage that all federal, state, and local regulations
that are more stringent than the minimum NFIP standards take precedence in
permitting decisions. The FHACA requires that the effective Flood Insurance
Rate Map, most recent preliminary FEMA mapping and flood studies, and
Department delineations be compared to determine the most restrictive mapping.
The FHACA also regulates unstudied flood hazard areas in watersheds measuring
50 acres or greater in size and most riparian zones in New Jersey. Because of
these higher standards, the regulated flood hazard area in New Jersey may be
more expansive and more restrictive than the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area.
Maps and studies that establish flood hazard areas are on file at the Office of
the Township Construction Official, 2400 Voorhees Town Center, Voorhees, NJ
08043.
         (b)   The following sources identify flood hazard areas in this
jurisdiction and must be considered when determining the Best Available Flood
Hazard Data Area:
            1.    Effective flood insurance study. Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHAs) identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific
and engineering report entitled "Flood Insurance Study Camden County, New
Jersey (All Jurisdictions)" dated August 17, 2016 and the accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) identified in Table 102.2(1) whose effective dates
are September 28, 2007 and June 16, 2009 are hereby adopted by reference.
Table 102.2(1)
Map Panel # Effective Date Suffix
Map Panel # Effective Date Suffix
34007C010 7 9/28/2007      E
34007C010 9 6/16/2009      F
34007C012 6 9/28/2007      E
34007C012 7 9/28/2007      E
34007C012 8 6/16/2009      F
34007C012 9 9/28/2007      E
34007C013 1 9/28/2007      E
34007C013 3 9/28/2007      E
34007C014 1 9/28/2007      E
 
            2.   Federal Best Available Information. The Township of Voorhees
shall utilize federal flood information as listed in the table below that
provides more detailed hazard information, higher flood elevations, larger
flood hazard areas, and results in more restrictive regulations. This
information may include but is not limited to preliminary flood elevation
guidance from FEMA (such as Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps or
Preliminary FIS and FIRM). Additional Federal Best Available studies issued
after the date of this section must also be considered. These studies are
listed on FEMA's Map Service Center. This information shall be used for
floodplain regulation purposes only.
Table 102.2(2)
 
Map Panel # Preliminary Date
None as of the date of this ordinance
 
            3.   Other Best Available Data. The Township of Voorhees shall
utilize high water elevations from flood events, groundwater flooding areas,
studies by federal or state agencies, or other information deemed appropriate
by the Township of
Voorhees. Other "best available information" may not be used which results in
less restrictive flood elevations, design standards, or smaller flood hazard
areas than the sources described in division (B)(2)(b)1. and 2., above. This
information shall be used for floodplain regulation purposes only.
            4.   State regulated flood hazard areas. For state regulated
waters, the NJ Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) identifies the
flood hazard area as the land, and the space above that land, which lies below
the "Flood Hazard Area Control Act Design Flood Elevation", as defined in
Section 201, and as described in the New Jersey Flood Hazard Area Control Act
at N.J.A.C. 7:13. A FHACA flood hazard area exists along every regulated water
that has a drainage area of 50 acres or greater. Such area may extend beyond
the boundaries of the Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) as identified by FEMA.
The following is a list of New Jersey State studied waters in this community
under the FHACA, and their respective map identification numbers.
Table 102.2(3) List of State Studied Waters
 
Name of Studied Water                  File Name  Map Number
Barton Run                             M000010 4p 05P
Barton Run, Trib. Black Run, Black Run M000001 6  B-5, 67
 
      (3)   Establishing the Local Design Flood Elevation (LDFE). The Local
Design Flood Elevation (LDFE) is established in the flood hazard areas
determined in division (B)(2), above, using the best available flood hazard
data sources, and the Flood Hazard Area Control Act minimum statewide elevation
requirements for lowest floors in A, Coastal A, and V zones, ASCE 24
requirements for critical facilities as specified by the building code, plus
additional freeboard as specified by this section. At a minimum, the Local
Design Flood Elevation shall be as follows:
         (a)   For a delineated watercourse, the elevation associated with the
Best Available Flood Hazard Data Area determined in division (B)(2), above,
plus one foot or as described by N.J.A.C. 7:13 of freeboard; or
         (b)   For any undelineated watercourse (where mapping or studies
described in division (B)(2)(b)1. and 2. above are not available) that has a
contributory drainage area of 50 acres or more, the applicants must provide one
of the following to determine the Local Design Flood Elevation:
            1.   A copy of an unexpired NJDEP Flood Hazard Area Verification
plus one foot of freeboard and any additional freeboard as required by ASCE 24;
or
            2.   A determination of the Flood Hazard Area Design Flood
Elevation using Method 5 or Method 6 (as described in N.J.A.C. 7:13) plus one
foot of freeboard and any additional freeboard as required by ASCE 24. Any
determination using these methods must be sealed and submitted according to (E)
(2) and (3).
         (c)   AO Zones - For Zone AO areas on the municipality's FIRM (or on
preliminary flood elevation guidance from FEMA), the Local Design Flood
Elevation is determined from the FIRM panel as the highest adjacent grade plus
the depth number specified plus one foot of freeboard. If no depth number is
specified, the Local Design Flood Elevation is three feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
         (d)   Class IV Critical Facilities - For any proposed development of
new and substantially improved Flood Design Class IV Critical Facilities, the
Local Design Flood Elevation must be the higher of the 0.2% annual chance (500
year) flood elevation or the Flood Hazard Area Design Flood Elevation with an
additional two feet of freeboard in accordance with ASCE 24.
         (e)   Class Ill Critical Facilities - For proposed development of new
and substantially improved Flood Design Class Ill Critical Facilities in
coastal high hazard areas, the Local Design Flood Elevation must be the higher
of the 0.2% annual chance (500 year) flood elevation or the Flood Hazard Area
Design Flood Elevation with an additional 1 foot of freeboard in accordance
with ASCE 24.
   (C)   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   Floodplain Administrator designation. The Construction Official is
designated the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall
have the authority to delegate performance of certain duties to other
employees.
      (2)   General. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to
administer the provisions of these regulations. The Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to render interpretations of these regulations
consistent with the intent and purpose of these regulations and to establish
policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be consistent with the
intent and purpose of these regulations and the flood provisions of the
building code and shall not have the effect of waiving specific requirements
without the granting of a variance pursuant to division (G) of these
regulations.
      (3)   Coordination. The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate with
the Construction Official to administer and enforce the flood provisions of the
Uniform Construction Code.
      (4)   Duties. The duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include
but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all permit applications to determine whether proposed
development is located in flood hazard areas established in division (B) of
these regulations.
         (b)   Require development in flood hazard areas to be reasonably safe
from flooding and to be designed and constructed with methods, practices and
materials that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries and provide available
flood elevation and flood hazard information.
         (d)   Determine whether additional flood hazard data shall be obtained
or developed.
         (e)   Review required certifications and documentation specified by
these regulations and the building code to determine that such certifications
and documentations are complete.
         (f)   Establish, in coordination with the Construction Official,
written procedures for administering and documenting determinations of
substantial improvement and substantial damage made pursuant to division (C)
(14) of these regulations.
         (g)   Coordinate with the Construction Official and others to identify
and investigate damaged buildings located in flood hazard areas and inform
owners of the requirement to obtain permits for repairs.
         (h)   Review requests submitted to the Construction Official seeking
approval to modify the strict application of the flood load and flood resistant
construction requirements of the Uniform Construction code to determine whether
such requests require consideration as a variance pursuant to division (G) of
these regulations.
         (i)   Require applicants who submit hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analyses to support permit applications to submit to FEMA the data
and information necessary to maintain the Flood Insurance Rate Maps when the
analyses propose to change base flood elevations, flood hazard area boundaries,
or floodway designations; such submissions shall be made within six months of
such data becoming available.
         (j)   Require applicants who propose alteration of a watercourse to
notify adjacent jurisdictions and the NJDEP Bureau of Flood Engineering, and to
submit copies of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
         (k)   Inspect development in accordance with division (F) of these
regulations and inspect flood hazard areas to determine if development is
undertaken without issuance of permits.
         (l)   Prepare comments and recommendations for consideration when
applicants seek variances in accordance with division (G) of these regulations.
         (m)   Cite violations in accordance with division (H) of these
regulations.
         (n)   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the
corporate boundaries of the Township of Voorhees have been modified.
         (o)   Permit Ordinary Maintenance and Minor Work in the regulated
areas discussed in division (B)(2).
      (5)   Use of changed technical data. The Floodplain Administrator and the
applicant shall not use changed flood hazard area boundaries or base flood
elevations for proposed buildings or developments unless the Floodplain
Administrator or applicant has applied for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CLOMR) to the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) revision and has received the
approval of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. A revision of the
effective FIRM does not remove the related feature(s) on a flood hazard area
delineation that has been promulgated by the NJDEP. A separate application must
be made to the state pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:13 for revision of a flood hazard
design flood elevation, flood hazard area limit, floodway limit, and/or other
related feature.
      (6)   Other permits. It shall be the responsibility of the Floodplain
Administrator to assure that approval of a proposed development shall not be
given until proof that necessary permits have been granted by federal or state
agencies having jurisdiction over such development, including section 404 of
the Clean Water Act. In the event of conflicting permit requirements, the
Floodplain Administrator must ensure that the most restrictive floodplain
management standards are reflected in permit approvals.
      (7)   Determination of local design flood elevations.
         (a)   If design flood elevations are not specified, the Floodplain
Administrator is authorized to require the applicant to:
            1.   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize data available from a
federal, state, or other source, or
            2.    Determine the design flood elevation in accordance with
accepted hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques. Such analyses shall
be performed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer. Studies, analyses,
and computations shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow review and
approval by the Floodplain Administrator. The accuracy of data submitted for
such determination shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the Floodplain Administrator
to verify that the applicant's proposed Best Available Flood Hazard Data Area
and the Local Design Flood Elevation in any development permit accurately
applies the best available flood hazard data and methodologies for determining
flood hazard areas and design elevations described in divisions (B)(2) and (3)
respectively. This information shall be provided to the Construction Official
and documented according to division (C)(15).
      (8)   Requirement to submit new technical data. Base flood elevations may
increase or decrease resulting from natural changes (e.g. erosion, accretion,
channel migration, subsidence, uplift) or man-made physical changes (e.g.
dredging, filling, excavation) affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date of a man-made change
or when information about a natural change becomes available, the Floodplain
Administrator shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of the changes
by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with Title 44 Code of
Federal Regulations Section 65.3. Such a submission is necessary so that upon
confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be based upon current
data.
      (9)   Activities in riverine flood hazard areas. In riverine flood hazard
areas where design flood elevations are specified but floodways have not been
designated, the Floodplain Administrator shall not permit any new construction,
substantial improvement or other development, including the placement of fill,
unless the applicant submits an engineering analysis prepared by a licensed
professional engineer that demonstrates that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
flood hazard area encroachment, will not increase the design flood elevation
more than 0.2 feet at any point within the community.
      (10)   Floodway encroachment. Prior to issuing a permit for any floodway
encroachment, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and
other development or land-disturbing activity, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require submission of a certification prepared by a licensed professional
engineer, along with supporting technical data, that demonstrates that such
development will not cause any increase in the base flood level.
         (a)   Floodway revisions. A floodway encroachment that increases the
level of the base flood is authorized if the applicant has applied for a
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) to the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) and has received the approval of FEMA.
      (11)   Watercourse alteration. Prior to issuing a permit for any
alteration or relocation of any watercourse, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide notification of the proposal to the
appropriate authorities of all adjacent government jurisdictions, as well as
the NJDEP Bureau of Flood Engineering and the Division of Land Resource
Protection. A copy of the notification shall be maintained in the permit
records and submitted to FEMA.
         (a)   Engineering analysis. The Floodplain Administrator shall require
submission of an engineering analysis prepared by a licensed professional
engineer, demonstrating that the flood- carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse will be maintained, neither increased nor
decreased. Such watercourses shall be maintained in a manner that preserves the
channel's flood- carrying capacity.
      (12)   Alterations in coastal areas. The excavation or alteration of sand
dunes is governed by the New Jersey Coastal Zone Management (CZM) rules,
N.J.A.C. 7:7. Prior to issuing a flood damage prevention permit for any
alteration of sand dunes in coastal high hazard areas and Coastal A Zones, the
Floodplain Administrator shall require that a New Jersey CZM permit be obtained
and included in the flood damage prevention permit application. The applicant
shall also provide documentation of any engineering analysis, prepared by a
licensed professional engineer, that demonstrates that the proposed alteration
will not increase the potential for flood damage.
      (13)   Development in riparian zones All development in riparian zones as
described in N.J.A.C. 7:13 is prohibited by this section unless the applicant
has received an individual or general permit or has complied with the
requirements of a permit by rule or permit by certification from NJDEP Division
of Land Resource Protection prior to application for a floodplain development
permit and the project is compliant with all other floodplain development
provisions of this section. The width of the riparian zone can range between 50
and 300 feet and is determined by the attributes of the waterbody and
designated in the New Jersey Surface Water Quality Standards N.J.A.C. 7:9B. The
portion of the riparian zone located outside of a regulated water is measured
landward from the top of bank. Applicants can request a verification of the
riparian zone limits or a permit applicability determination to determine state
permit requirements under N.J.A.C. 7:13 from the NJDEP Division of Land
Resource Protection.
      (14)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations.
When buildings and structures are damaged due to any cause including but not
limited to man- made, structural, electrical, mechanical, or natural hazard
events, or are determined to be unsafe as described in N.J.A.C. 5:23; and for
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, repair, additions, rehabilitations,
renovations, ordinary maintenance and minor work, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Construction Official, shall:
         (a)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain a
professional appraisal prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of the
market value of the building or structure before the start of construction of
the proposed work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or
structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any
repairs are made.
         (b)   Determine and include the costs of all ordinary maintenance and
minor work, as discussed in division (A)(5), performed in the floodplain
regulated by this section in addition to the costs of those improvements
regulated by the Construction Official in substantial damage and substantial
improvement calculations.
         (c)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair
the damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, where applicable, to the market value of the building
or structure.
         (d)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage.
         (e)   Notify the applicant in writing when it is determined that the
work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and
that compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the
building code is required and notify the applicant when it is determined that
work does not constitute substantial improvement or repair of substantial
damage. The Floodplain Administrator shall also provide all letters documenting
substantial damage and compliance with flood resistant construction
requirements of the building code to the NJDEP Bureau of Flood Engineering.
      (15)   Department records. In addition to the requirements of the
building code and these regulations, and regardless of any limitation on the
period required for retention of public records, the Floodplain Administrator
shall maintain and permanently keep and make available for public inspection
all records that are necessary for the administration of these regulations and
the flood provisions of the Uniform Construction Code, including Flood
Insurance Studies, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; documents from FEMA that amend or
revise FIRMs; NJDEP delineations, records of issuance of permits and denial of
permits; records of ordinary maintenance and minor work, determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required certifications and documentation specified by the
Uniform Construction Code and these regulations including as-built Elevation
Certificates; notifications to adjacent communities, FEMA, and the state
related to alterations of watercourses; assurance that the flood carrying
capacity of altered waterways will be maintained; documentation related to
variances, including justification for issuance or denial; and records of
enforcement actions taken pursuant to these regulations and the flood resistant
provisions of the Uniform Construction Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall
also record the required elevation, determination method, and base flood
elevation source used to determine the Local Design Flood Elevation in the
floodplain development permit.
      (16)   Liability. The Floodplain Administrator and any employee charged
with the enforcement of these regulations, while acting for the jurisdiction in
good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by these
regulations or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered
liable personally and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage
accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act
or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of these regulations
shall be defended by legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings. The Floodplain Administrator and any
subordinate shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that
is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of these regulations.
   (D)   Permits.
      (1)   Permits required. Any person, owner or authorized agent who intends
to conduct any development in a flood hazard area shall first make application
to the Floodplain Administrator and shall obtain the required permit. Depending
on the nature and extent of proposed development that includes a building or
structure, the Floodplain Administrator may determine that a floodplain
development permit or approval is required in addition to a building permit.
      (2)   Application for permit. The applicant shall file an application in
writing on a form furnished by the Floodplain Administrator. Such application
shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
permit.
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
conducted by legal description, street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitively locate the site.
         (c)   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed
development is intended.
         (d)   Be accompanied by a site plan and construction documents as
specified in division (E) of these regulations, grading and filling plans and
other information deemed appropriate by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (e)   State the valuation of the proposed work, including the
valuation of ordinary maintenance and minor work.
         (f)   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized agent.
      (3)   Validity of permit. The issuance of a permit under these
regulations or the Uniform Construction Code shall not be construed to be a
permit for, or approval of, any violation of this appendix or any other
ordinance of the jurisdiction. The issuance of a permit based on submitted
documents and information shall not prevent the Floodplain Administrator from
requiring the correction of errors. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized
to prevent occupancy or use of a structure or site which is in violation of
these regulations or other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
      (4)   Expiration. A permit shall become invalid when the proposed
development is not commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or when the
work authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the
work commences. Extensions shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to grant, in writing,
one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each.
      (5)   Suspension or revocation. The Floodplain Administrator is
authorized to suspend or revoke a permit issued under these regulations
wherever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate
or incomplete information, or in violation of any ordinance or code of this
jurisdiction.
   (E)   Site plans and construction documents.
      (1)   Information for development in flood hazard areas.
         (a)   The site plan or construction documents for any development
subject to the requirements of these regulations shall be drawn to scale and
shall include, as applicable to the proposed development:
            1.    Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and
flood zone(s), base flood elevation(s), and ground elevations when necessary
for review of the proposed development. For buildings that are located in more
than one flood hazard area, the elevation and provisions associated with the
most restrictive flood hazard area shall apply.
            2.   Where base flood elevations or floodway data are not included
on the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, they shall be established in
accordance with division (E)(2).
            3.   Where the parcel on which the proposed development will take
place will have more than 50 lots or is larger than five acres and base flood
elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, such
elevations shall be established in accordance with division (E)(2)(a)3. of
these regulations.
            4.   Location of the proposed activity and proposed structures, and
locations of existing buildings and structures; in coastal high hazard areas
and Coastal A zones, new buildings shall be located landward of the reach of
mean high tide.
            5.    Location, extent, amount, and proposed final grades of any
filling, grading, or excavation.
            6.   Where the placement of fill is proposed, the amount, type, and
source of fill material; compaction specifications; a description of the
intended purpose of the fill areas; and evidence that the proposed fill areas
are the minimum necessary to achieve the intended purpose. The applicant shall
provide an engineering certification confirming that the proposal meets the
flood storage displacement limitations of N.J.A.C. 7:13.
            7.   Extent of any proposed alteration of sand dunes.
            8.   Existing and proposed alignment of any proposed alteration of
a watercourse.
            9.    Floodproofing certifications, V Zone and Breakaway Wall
Certifications, Operations and Maintenance Plans, Warning and Evacuation Plans
and other documentation required pursuant to FEMA publications.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to waive the
submission of site plans, construction documents, and other data that are
required by these regulations but that are not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional when it is found that the nature of the proposed
development is such that the review of such submissions is not necessary to
ascertain compliance.
      (2)   Information in flood hazard areas without base flood elevations
(approximate Zone A). 
         (a)   Where flood hazard areas are delineated on the effective or
preliminary FIRM and base flood elevation data have not been provided, the
applicant shall consult with the Floodplain Administrator to determine whether
to:
            1.   Use the Approximation Method (Method 5) described in N.J.A.C.
7:13 in conjunction with Appendix 1 of the FHACA to determine the required
flood elevation.
            2.   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize data available from a
federal, state or other source when those data are deemed acceptable to the
Floodplain Administrator to reasonably reflect flooding conditions.
            3.    Determine the base flood elevation in accordance with
accepted hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques according to Method 6
as described in N.J.A.C. 7:13. Such analyses shall be performed and sealed by a
licensed professional engineer.
         (b)   Studies, analyses, and computations shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow review and approval by the Floodplain Administrator
prior to floodplain development permit issuance. The accuracy of data submitted
for such determination shall be the responsibility of the applicant. Where the
data are to be used to support a Letter of Map Change (LOMC) from FEMA, the
applicant shall be responsible for satisfying the submittal requirements and
pay the processing fees.
      (3)   Analyses and certifications by a licensed professional engineer. As
applicable to the location and nature of the proposed development activity, and
in addition to the requirements of this section, the applicant shall have the
following analyses signed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer for
submission with the site plan and construction documents:
         (a)   For development activities proposed to be located in a
regulatory floodway, a floodway encroachment analysis that demonstrates that
the encroachment of the proposed development will not cause any increase in
base flood elevations; where the applicant proposes to undertake development
activities that do increase base flood elevations, the applicant shall submit
such analysis to FEMA as specified in division (E)(4) of these regulations and
shall submit the Conditional Letter of Map Revision, if issued by FEMA, with
the site plan and construction documents.
         (b)   For development activities proposed to be located in a riverine
flood hazard area where base flood elevations are included in the FIS or FIRM
but floodways have not been designated, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that
demonstrate that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated flood hazard area
encroachments will not increase the base flood elevation more than 0.2 feet at
any point within the jurisdiction. This requirement does not apply in isolated
flood hazard areas not connected to a riverine flood hazard area or in flood
hazard areas identified as Zone AO or Zone AH.
         (c)   For alteration of a watercourse, an engineering analysis
prepared in accordance with standard engineering practices which demonstrates
that the flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of the
watercourse will not be decreased, and certification that the altered
watercourse shall be maintained, neither increasing nor decreasing the
channel's flood-carrying capacity. The applicant shall submit the analysis to
FEMA as specified in division (E)(4) of these regulations. The applicant shall
notify the chief executive officer of all affected adjacent jurisdictions, the
NJDEP's Bureau of Flood Engineering and the Division of Land Resource
Protection; and shall provide documentation of such notifications.
         (d)   For activities that propose to alter sand dunes in coastal high
hazard areas (Zone V) and Coastal A Zones, an engineering analysis that
demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not increase the potential for
flood damage and documentation of the issuance of a New Jersey Coastal Zone
Management permit under N.J.A.C. 7:7.
         (e)   For analyses performed using Methods 5 and 6 (as described in
N.J.A.C. 7:13) in flood hazard zones without base flood elevations (approximate
A zones).
      (4)   Submission of additional data. When additional hydrologic,
hydraulic or other engineering data, studies, and additional analyses are
submitted to support an application, the applicant has the right to seek a
Letter of Map Change (LOMC) from FEMA to change the base flood elevations,
change floodway boundaries, or change boundaries of flood hazard areas shown on
FIRMs, and to submit such data to FEMA for such purposes. The analyses shall be
prepared by a licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA.
Submittal requirements and processing fees shall be the responsibility of the
applicant.
   (F)   Inspections.
      (1)   General. Development for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be
construed to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of these
regulations or the building code. Inspections presuming to give authority to
violate or cancel the provisions of these regulations or the building code or
other ordinances shall not be valid.
      (2)   Inspections of development. The Floodplain Administrator shall
inspect all development in flood hazard areas authorized by issuance of permits
under these regulations. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect flood
hazard areas from time to time to determine if development is undertaken
without issuance of a permit.
      (3)   Buildings and structures. The Construction Official shall make or
cause to be made inspections for buildings and structures in flood hazard areas
authorized by permit in accordance with the Uniform Construction Code, N.J.A.C.
5:23.
         (a)   Lowest floor elevation. Upon placement of the lowest floor,
including the basement, and prior to further vertical construction,
certification of the elevation required in division (O)(2) shall be submitted
to the Construction Official on an Elevation Certificate.
         (b)   Lowest horizontal structural member. In V zones and Coastal A
zones, upon placement of the lowest floor, including the basement, and prior to
further vertical construction, certification of the elevation required in
division (O)(2) shall be submitted to the Construction Official on an Elevation
Certificate.
         (c)   Installation of attendant utilities (electrical, heating,
ventilating, air-conditioning, and other service equipment) and sanitary
facilities elevated as discussed in division (O)(2).
         (d)   Final inspection. Prior to the final inspection, certification
of the elevation required in division (O)(2) shall be submitted to the
Construction Official on an Elevation Certificate.
      (4)   Manufactured homes. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect
manufactured homes that are installed or replaced in flood hazard areas to
determine compliance with the requirements of these regulations and the
conditions of the issued permit. Upon placement of a manufactured home,
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor shall be submitted on an
Elevation Certificate to the Floodplain Administrator prior to the final
inspection.
   (G)   Variances.
      (1)   General. The Zoning Board of the Township of Voorhees shall hear
and decide requests for variances. The Zoning Board of the Township of Voorhees
shall base its determination on technical justifications submitted by
applicants, the considerations for issuance in division (G)(5), the conditions
of issuance set forth in division (G)(6), and the comments and recommendations
of the Floodplain Administrator and, as applicable, the Construction Official.
The Zoning Board of the Township of Voorhees has the right to attach such
conditions to variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives of these regulations.
      (2)   Historic structures. A variance to the substantial improvement
requirements of this section is authorized provided that the repair or
rehabilitation of a historic structure is completed according to N.J.A.C. 5:23-
6.33, Section 1612 of the International Building Code and R322 of the
International Residential Code, the repair or rehabilitation will not preclude
the structure's continued designation as a historic structure, the structure
meets the definition of the historic structure as described by this section,
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
      (3)   Functionally dependent uses. A variance is authorized to be issued
for the construction or substantial improvement necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided the variance is the minimum necessary to
allow the construction or substantial improvement, and that all due
consideration has been given to use of methods and materials that minimize
flood damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety.
      (4)   Restrictions in floodways. A variance shall not be issued for any
proposed development in a floodway when any increase in flood levels would
result during the base flood discharge, as evidenced by the applicable analysis
and certification required in division (E)(3)(a) of these regulations.
      (5)   Considerations. In reviewing requests for variances, all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all other portions of these regulations, and
the following shall be considered:
         (a)   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other
lands resulting in further injury or damage.
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including
contents, to flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future
owners.
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
development to the community.
         (e)   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed
development that are not subject to flooding or erosion and the necessity of a
waterfront location, where applicable.
         (f)   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development.
         (g)   The relationship of the proposed development to the
comprehensive plan and floodplain management program for that area.
         (h)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (i)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
debris and sediment transport of the floodwater and the effects of wave action,
where applicable, expected at the site.
         (j)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets, and
bridges.
      (6)   Conditions for issuance. Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Submission by the applicant of a showing of good and sufficient
cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration or topography
of the site limit compliance with any provision of these regulations or renders
the elevation standards of the building code inappropriate.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the land that
render the lot undevelopable.
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, nor create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (d)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
         (e)   Notification to the applicant in writing over the signature of
the Floodplain Administrator that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage,
and that such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property.
   (H)   Violations.
      (1)   Violations. Any development in any flood hazard area that is being
performed without an issued permit or that is in conflict with an issued permit
shall be deemed a violation. A building or structure without the documentation
of elevation of the lowest floor, the lowest horizontal structural member if in
a V or Coastal A Zone, other required design certifications, or other evidence
of compliance required by the building code is presumed to be a violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
      (2)   Authority. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to serve
notices of violation or stop work orders to owners of property involved, to the
owner's agent, or to the person or persons doing the work for development that
is not within the scope of the Uniform Construction Code, but is regulated by
these regulations and that is determined to be a violation.
      (3)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a notice of violation or a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove or remedy a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by N.J.S.A. 40:
49-5 as appropriate.
      (4)   Review period to correct violations. A 30-day period shall be given
to the property owner as an opportunity to cure or abate the condition. The
property owner shall also be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the
court for an independent determination concerning the violation. Subsequent to
the expiration of the 30-day period, a fine greater than $1,250 may be imposed
if a court has not determined otherwise or, upon reinspection of the property,
it is determined that the abatement has not been substantially completed.
   (I)   Definitions. The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of
these regulations, have the meanings shown herein. Other terms are defined in
the Uniform Construction Code N.J.A.C. 5:23 and terms are defined where used in
the International Residential Code and International Building Code (rather than
in the definitions section). Where terms are not defined, such terms shall have
ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.
      30 DAY PERIOD. The period of time prescribed by N.J.S.A. 40:49-5 in which
a property owner is afforded the opportunity to correct zoning and solid waste
disposal after a notice of violation pertaining to this section has been
issued.
      100 YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION. Elevation of flooding having a 1% annual chance
of being equaled or exceeded in a given year, which is also referred to as the
Base Flood Elevation.
      500 YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION. Elevation of flooding having a 0.2% annual
chance of being equaled or exceeded in a given year.
      A ZONES. Areas of Special Flood Hazard in which the elevation of the
surface water resulting from a flood that has a 1% annual chance of equaling or
exceeding the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) in any given year shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30,
AR/AH, and AR/AO. When used in reference to the development of a structure in
this section, A Zones are not inclusive of Coastal A Zones because of the
higher building code requirements for Coastal A Zones.
      AH ZONES. Areas subject to inundation by 1%-annual-chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown in this zone.
      AO ZONES. Areas subject to inundation by 1%-annual-chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. (Also referred to as appurtenant structures.) A
structure which is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and
the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure. For
example, a residential structure may have a detached garage or storage shed for
garden tools as accessory structures. Other examples of accessory structures
include gazebos, picnic pavilions, boathouses, small pole barns, storage sheds,
and similar buildings.
      AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes
in which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. Communities must require that new construction or substantial
improvements of agricultural structures be elevated or floodproofed to or above
the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) as any other nonresidential building. Under some
circumstances it may be appropriate to wet-floodproof certain types of
agricultural structures when located in wide, expansive floodplains through
issuance of a variance. This should only be done for structures used for
temporary storage of equipment or crops or temporary shelter for livestock and
only in circumstances where it can be demonstrated that agricultural structures
can be designed in such a manner that results in minimal damage to the
structure and its contents and will create no additional threats to public
safety. New construction or substantial improvement of livestock confinement
buildings, poultry houses, dairy operations, similar livestock operations and
any structure that represents more than a minimal investment must meet the
elevation or dry- floodproofing requirements of 44 CFR 60.3(c)(3).
      ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation,
change in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area
of the channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which
may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the
riverine flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
      AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH (or
VO) on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
      ASCE 7. The standard for the Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other
Structures, referenced by the building code and developed and published by the
American Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA, which includes but is not
limited to methodology and equations necessary for determining structural and
flood-related design requirements and determining the design requirements for
structures that may experience a combination of loads including those from
natural hazards. Flood related equations include those for determining erosion,
scour, lateral, vertical, hydrostatic, hydrodynamic, buoyancy, breaking wave,
and debris impact.
      ASCE 24. The standard for Flood Resistant Design and Construction,
referenced by the building code and developed and published by the American
Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA. References to ASCE 24 shall mean ASCE
24-14 or the most recent version of ASCE 24 adopted in the UCC Code [N.J.A.C.
5:23].
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation resulting from a
flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year, as shown on a published Flood Insurance Study (FIS), or preliminary flood
elevation guidance from FEMA. May also be referred to as the "100-year flood
elevation".
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD HAZARD DATA.  The most recent available preliminary
flood risk guidance FEMA has provided. The Best Available Flood Hazard Data may
be depicted on but not limited to Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps,
or Preliminary FIS and FIRM.
      BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD HAZARD DATA AREA.  The areal mapped extent
associated with the most recent available preliminary flood risk guidance FEMA
has provided. The Best Available Flood Hazard Data may be depicted on but not
limited to Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps, or Preliminary FIS and
FIRM.
      BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD HAZARD DATA ELEVATION. The most recent available
preliminary flood elevation guidance FEMA has provided. The Best Available
Flood Hazard Data may be depicted on but not limited to Advisory Flood Hazard
Area Maps, Work Maps, or Preliminary FIS and FIRM.
      BREAKAWAY WALLS.  Any type of wall subject to flooding that is not
required to provide structural support to a building or other structure and
that is designed and constructed such that, below the Local Design Flood
Elevation, it will collapse under specific lateral loads such that (1) it
allows the free passage of floodwaters, and (2) it does not damage the
structure or supporting foundation system. Certification in the V Zone
Certificate of the design, plans, and specifications by a licensed design
professional that these walls are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice is required as part of the permit application for new and
substantially improved V Zone and Coastal A Zone structures. A completed
certification must be submitted at permit application.
      BUILDING. Per the FHACA, BUILDING means a structure enclosed with
exterior walls or fire walls, erected and framed of component structural parts,
designed for the housing, shelter, enclosure, and support of individuals,
animals, or property of any kind. A building may have a temporary or permanent
foundation. A building that is intended for regular human occupation and/or
residence is considered a habitable building.
      CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION. A Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CLOMR) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction,
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The letter does not revise an effective NFIP map, it indicates whether
the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. FEMA charges a
fee for processing a CLOMR to recover the costs associated with the review that
is described in the Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process. Building permits
cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP
map.
      CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL. A Conditional Letter of Map
Revision - Fill (CLOMR-F) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project involving the
placement of fill outside of the regulatory floodway that would, upon
construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway,
the effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The letter does not revise an effective NFIP map, it indicates whether
the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. FEMA charges a
fee for processing a CLOMR to recover the costs associated with the review that
is described in the Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process. Building permits
cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP
map.
      CRITICAL BUILDING. Per the FHACA, CRITICAL BUILDING means that:
         (a)   It is essential to maintaining continuity of vital government
operations and/or supporting emergency response, sheltering, and medical care
functions before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital, medical
clinic, police station, fire station, emergency response center, or public
shelter; or
         (b)   It serves large numbers of people who may be unable to leave the
facility through their own efforts, thereby hindering or preventing safe
evacuation of the building during a flood event, such as a school, college,
dormitory, jail or detention facility, day care center, assisted living
facility, or nursing home.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, tanks, temporary
structures, temporary or permanent storage of materials, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavations, drilling operations and other land-
disturbing activities.
      DRY FLOODPROOFING. A combination of measures that results in a non-
residential structure, including the attendant utilities and equipment as
described in the latest version of ASCE 24, being watertight with all elements
substantially impermeable and with structural components having the capacity to
resist flood loads.
      ELEVATED BUILDING.  A building that has no basement and that has its
lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns. Solid perimeter foundations walls are
not an acceptable means of elevating buildings in V and VE Zones.
      ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. An administrative tool of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) that can be used to provide elevation information, to
determine the proper insurance premium rate, and to support an application for
a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
      ENCROACHMENT. The placement of fill, excavation, buildings, permanent
structures or other development into a flood hazard area which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of riverine flood hazard areas.
      FEMA PUBLICATIONS. Any publication authored or referenced by FEMA related
to building science, building safety, or floodplain management related to the
National Flood Insurance Program. Publications shall include but are not
limited to technical bulletins, desk references, and American Society of Civil
Engineers Standards documents including ASCE 24.
       FLOOD or FLOODING.
         (a)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
            1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
            2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
            3.    Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding as defined in (a)2. of this definition and are akin to a river or
liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when
earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the
current.
         (b)   The   collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake
or other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in paragraph (a)1. of this definition.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION. Per the FHACA, the peak water
surface elevation that will occur in a water during the flood hazard area
design flood. This elevation is determined via available flood mapping adopted
by the state, flood mapping published by FEMA (including effective flood
mapping dated on or after January 31, 1980, or any more recent advisory,
preliminary, or pending flood mapping; whichever results in higher flood
elevations, wider floodway limits, greater flow rates, or indicates a change
from an A zone to a V zone or coastal A zone), approximation, or calculation
pursuant to the Flood Hazard Area Control Act Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:13-3.1 - 3.6
and is typically higher than FEMA's base flood elevation. A water that has a
drainage area measuring less than 50 acres does not possess, and is not
assigned, a flood hazard area design flood elevation.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has provided flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Insurance Rate Map(s) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
      FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. See "Flood or flooding."
      FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
      FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
      FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. Certification by a licensed design
professional that the design and methods of construction for floodproofing a
non-residential structure are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
to a proposed height above the structure's lowest adjacent grade that meets or
exceeds the Local Design Flood Elevation. A completed floodproofing certificate
is required at permit application.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 0.2 foot.
      FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that cannot perform its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water,
including only docking facilities, port facilities necessary for the loading or
unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair facilities.
The term does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
      HABITABLE BUILDING.  Pursuant to the FHACA Rules (N.J.A.C. 7:13), means a
building that is intended for regular human occupation and/or residence.
Examples of a habitable building include a single-family home, duplex, multi-
residence building, or critical building; a commercial building such as a
retail store, restaurant, office building, or gymnasium; an accessory structure
that is regularly occupied, such as a garage, barn, or workshop; mobile and
manufactured homes, and trailers intended for human residence, which are set on
a foundation and/or connected to utilities, such as in a mobile home park (not
including campers and recreational vehicles); and any other building that is
regularly occupied, such as a house of worship, community center, or meeting
hall, or animal shelter that includes regular human access and occupation.
Examples of a non-habitable building include a bus stop shelter, utility
building, storage shed, self-storage unit, construction trailer, or an
individual shelter for animals such as a doghouse or outdoor kennel.
      HARDSHIP. As related to division (G) of this section, meaning the
exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested
variance. The Township Committee of the Township of Voorhees requires that the
variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere
economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed or existing walls of a
structure.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
      LAWFULLY EXISTING. Per the FHACA, means an existing fill, structure and/
or use, which meets all federal, state, and local laws, and which is not in
violation of the FHACA because it was established:
         (a)   Prior to January 31, 1980; or
         (b)   On or after January 31, 1980, in accordance with the
requirements of the FHACA as it existed at the time the fill, structure and/or
use was established.
Note: Substantially damaged properties and substantially improved properties
that have not been elevated are not considered "lawfully existing" for the
purposes of the NFIP. This definition is included in this section to clarify
the applicability of any more stringent statewide floodplain management
standards required under the FHACA.
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT. A Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) is an official
amendment, by letter, to an effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
map that is requested through the Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process. A LOMA
establishes a property's location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently
mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above
the base flood elevation. Because a LOMA officially amends the effective NFIP
map, it is a public record that the community must maintain. Any LOMA should be
noted on the community's master flood map and filed by panel number in an
accessible location.
      LETTER OF MAP CHANGE. The Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process is a
service provided by FEMA for a fee that allows the public to request a change
in flood zone designation in an Area of Special Flood Hazard on a Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). Conditional Letters of Map Revision, Conditional
Letters of Map Revision - Fill, Letters of Map Revision, Letters of Map
Revision-Fill, and Letters of Map Amendment are requested through the Letter of
Map Change (LOMC) process.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMA) is FEMA's
modification to an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). Letter of Map
Revisions are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The LOMA officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and
sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate,
includes a description of the modifications. The LOMA is generally accompanied
by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM or FIS report.
Because a LOMA officially revises the effective NFIP map, it is a public record
that the community must maintain. Any LOMA should be noted on the community's
master flood map and filed by panel number in an accessible location.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL. A Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill
(LOMR-F) is FEMA's modification of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside
the existing regulatory floodway may be initiated through the Letter of Map
Change (LOMC) Process. Because a LOMA-F officially revises the effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) map, it is a public record that the community must
maintain. Any LOMR-F should be noted on the community's master flood map and
filed by panel number in an accessible location.
      LICENSED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. Either a New Jersey Licensed Professional
Engineer, licensed by the New Jersey State Board of Professional Engineers and
Land Surveyors, or a New Jersey Licensed Architect, licensed by the New Jersey
State Board of Architects.
      LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A licensed professional engineer shall
refer to individuals licensed by the New Jersey State Board of Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors.
      LOCAL DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION (LDFE). The elevation reflective of the most
recent available preliminary flood elevation guidance FEMA has provided as
depicted on but not limited to Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps, or
Preliminary FIS and FIRM which is also inclusive of freeboard specified by the
New Jersey Flood Hazard Area Control Act and Uniform Construction Codes and any
additional freeboard specified in a community's ordinance. In no circumstances
shall a project's LDFE be lower than a permit-specified Flood Hazard Area
Design Flood Elevation or a valid NJDEP Flood Hazard Area Verification Letter
plus the freeboard as required in ASCE 24 and the effective FEMA Base Flood
Elevation.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest point of ground, patio, or sidewalk
slab immediately next a structure, except in AO Zones where it is the natural
grade elevation.
      LOWEST FLOOR. In A Zones, the lowest floor is the top surface of the
lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). In V Zones and
coastal A Zones, the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of a
building is the lowest floor. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure,
usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
area other than a basement is not considered a building's lowest floor provided
that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
other applicable non-elevation design requirements of these regulations.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, eight feet or more in width and greater than 400 square feet, built
on a permanent chassis, designed for use with or without a permanent foundation
when attached to the required utilities, and constructed to the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards and rules and regulations
promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The term
also includes mobile homes, park trailers, travel trailers and similar
transportable structures that are placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or
longer.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels)
of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
      MARKET VALUE. The price at which a property will change hands between a
willing buyer and a willing seller, neither party being under compulsion to buy
or sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts. As used in
these regulations, the term refers to the market value of buildings and
structures, excluding the land and other improvements on the parcel. Market
value shall be determined by one of the following methods: (1) Actual Cash
Value (replacement cost depreciated for age and quality of construction), (2)
tax assessment value adjusted to approximate market value by a factor provided
by the tax assessor's office, or (3) established by a qualified independent
appraiser.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of the first floodplain regulation
adopted by a community; includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. NEW CONSTRUCTION includes work determined to be a substantial
improvement.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL. Pursuant to ASCE 24, any building or structure or
portion thereof that is not classified as residential.
      ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND MINOR WORK. This term refers to types of work
excluded from construction permitting under N.J.A.C. 5:23 in the March 5, 2018
New Jersey Register. Some of these types of work must be considered in
determinations of substantial improvement and substantial damage in regulated
floodplains under 44 CFR 59.1. These types of work include but are not limited
to replacements of roofing, siding, interior finishes, kitchen cabinets,
plumbing fixtures and piping, HVAC and air conditioning equipment, exhaust
fans, built in appliances, electrical wiring, etc. Improvements necessary to
correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitation, or code
enforcement officials which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions and improvements of historic structures as discussed in 44 CFR 59.1
shall not be included in the determination of ordinary maintenance and minor
work.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions.
      RESIDENTIAL. Pursuant to the ASCE 24:
         (a)   Buildings and structures and portions thereof where people live
or that are used for sleeping purposes on a transient or non-transient basis;
         (b)   Structures including but not limited to one- and two-family
dwellings, townhouses, condominiums, multi-family dwellings, apartments,
congregate residences, boarding houses, lodging houses, rooming houses, hotels,
motels, apartment buildings, convents, monasteries, dormitories, fraternity
houses, sorority houses, vacation time-share properties; and
         (c)   Institutional facilities where people are cared for or live on a
24-hour basis in a supervised environment, including but not limited to board
and care facilities, assisted living facilities, halfway houses, group homes,
congregate care facilities, social rehabilitation facilities, alcohol and drug
centers, convalescent facilities, hospitals, nursing homes, mental hospitals,
detoxification facilities, prisons, jails, reformatories, detention centers,
correctional centers, and prerelease centers.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. The storage, treatment, utilization, processing or
final disposition of solid waste as described in N.J.A.C. 7:26-1.6 or the
storage of unsecured materials as described in N.J.A.C. 7:13-2.3 for a period
of greater than six months as specified in N.J.A.C. 7:26 which have been
discharged, deposited, injected, dumped, spilled, leaked, or placed into any
land or water such that such solid waste may enter the environment or be
emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including groundwaters.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The greater of the following: (1) land in the
floodplain within a community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year, shown on the FIRM as Zone V, VE, V1-3-, A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99,
or AH; (2) land and the space above that land, which lies below the peak water
surface elevation of the flood hazard area design flood for a particular water,
as determined using the methods set forth in the New Jersey Flood Hazard Area
Control Act in N.J.A.C. 7:13; (3) riparian buffers as determined in the New
Jersey Flood Hazard Area Control Act in N.J.A.C. 7:13. Also referred to as the
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
       START OF CONSTRUCTION.
         (a)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements,
under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA), this is the date the building
permit was issued, provided that the actual start of construction, repair,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a building on site, such as the pouring of a slab or footing,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured (mobile) home on a
foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual start of construction means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
         (b)   1.   For the purposes of determining whether proposed
construction must meet new requirements when National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) maps are issued or revised and Base Flood Elevation's (BFEs) increase or
zones change, the START OF CONSTRUCTION includes substantial improvement, and
means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
            2.    Permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. Such development must also be permitted and must meet new
requirements when National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) maps are issued or
revised and Base Flood Elevation's (BFEs) increase or zones change.
            3.   For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
            4.   For determining if new construction and substantial
improvements within the Coastal Barrier Resources System (CBRS) can obtain
flood insurance, a different definition applies.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure taking place, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement officer and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure.”
      UTILITY AND MISCELLANEOUS GROUP U BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES. Buildings and
structures of an accessory character and miscellaneous structures not
classified in any special occupancy, as described in ASCE 24.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this section which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this section where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
      VIOLATION. A development that is not fully compliant with these
regulations or the flood provisions of the building code. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required in this section is presumed to be in violation
until such time as that documentation is provided.
      WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas.
      WATERCOURSE. A river, creek, stream, channel, or other topographic
feature in, on, through, or over which water flows at least periodically.
      WET FLOODPROOFING. Floodproofing method that relies on the use of flood
damage resistant materials and construction techniques in areas of a structure
that are below the Local Design Flood Elevation by intentionally allowing them
to flood. The application of wet floodproofing as a flood protection technique
under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is limited to enclosures
below elevated residential and non-residential structures and to accessory and
agricultural structures that have been issued variances by the community.
   (J)   Subdivisions and other developments.
      (1)   General. Any subdivision proposal, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, or other proposed new development in
a flood hazard area shall be reviewed to assure that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electric and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwater around and away from structures.
      (2)   Subdivision requirements. Where any portion of proposed
subdivisions, including manufactured home parks and subdivisions, lies within a
flood hazard area, the following shall be required:
         (a)   The flood hazard area, including floodways, coastal high hazard
areas, and Coastal A Zones, and base flood elevations, as appropriate, shall be
delineated on tentative subdivision plats.
         (b)   Residential building lots shall be provided with adequate
buildable area outside the floodway.
         (c)   The design criteria for utilities and facilities set forth in
these regulations and appropriate codes shall be met.
   (K)   Site improvement.
      (1)   Encroachment in floodways. Development, land disturbing activity,
and encroachments in floodways shall not be authorized unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses required in accordance
with division (E)(3)(a) of these regulations, that the proposed encroachment
will not result in any increase in the base flood level during occurrence of
the base flood discharge. If division (E)(3)(a) is satisfied, proposed
elevation, addition, or reconstruction of a lawfully existing structure within
a floodway shall also be in accordance with division (O)(2) of this section and
the floodway requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:13.
         (a)   Prohibited in floodways. The following are prohibited
activities:
            1.   The storage of unsecured materials is prohibited within a
floodway pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:13.
            2.   Fill and new structures are prohibited in floodways per
N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (2)   Sewer facilities. All new and replaced sanitary sewer facilities,
private sewage treatment plants (including all pumping stations and collector
systems) and on-site waste disposal systems shall be designed in accordance
with the New Jersey septic system regulations contained in N.J.A.C. 14A and
N.J.A.C. 7:9A, the UCC Plumbing Subcode (N.J.A.C. 5:23) and Chapter 7, ASCE 24,
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwater into the facilities and
discharge from the facilities into flood waters, or impairment of the
facilities and systems.
      (3)   Water facilities. All new and replacement water facilities shall be
designed in accordance with the New Jersey Safe Drinking Water Act (N.J.A.C. 7:
10) and the provisions of Chapter 7 ASCE 24, to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwater into the systems.
      (4)   Storm drainage. Storm drainage shall be designed to convey the flow
of surface waters to minimize or eliminate damage to persons or property.
      (5)   Streets and sidewalks. Streets and sidewalks shall be designed to
minimize potential for increasing or aggravating flood levels.
      (6)   Limitations on placement of fill. Subject to the limitations of
these regulations, fill shall be designed to be stable under conditions of
flooding including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of floodwater, prolonged
inundation, and protection against flood-related erosion and scour. In addition
to these requirements, when intended to support buildings and structures (Zone
A only), fill shall comply with the requirements of the UCC (N.J.A.C. 5:23).
Proposed fill and encroachments in flood hazard areas shall comply with the
flood storage displacement limitations of N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (7)   Hazardous materials. The placement or storage of any containers
holding hazardous substances in a flood hazard area is prohibited unless the
provisions of N.J.A.C. 7:13 which cover the placement of hazardous substances
and solid waste is met.
   (L)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   General. All manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas
shall be installed pursuant to the Nationally Preemptive Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Program (24 CFR 3280).
      (2)   Elevation. All new, relocated, and replacement manufactured homes
to be placed or substantially improved in a flood hazard area shall be elevated
such that the bottom of the frame is elevated to or above the elevation
specified in division (O)(2).
      (3)   Foundations. All new, relocated, and replacement manufactured
homes, including substantial improvement of existing manufactured homes, shall
be placed on foundations as specified by the manufacturer only if the
manufacturer's installation instructions specify that the home has been
designed for flood-resistant considerations and provides the conditions of
applicability for velocities, depths, or wave action as required by 24 CFR Part
3285-302. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to determine whether the
design meets or exceeds the performance necessary based upon the proposed site
location conditions as a precondition of issuing a flood damage prevention
permit. If the Floodplain Administrator determines that the home's performance
standards will not withstand the flood loads in the proposed location, the
applicant must propose a design certified by a New Jersey licensed design
professional and in accordance with 24 CFR 3285.301 (c) and (d) which conforms
with ASCE 24, the accepted standard of engineering practice for flood resistant
design and construction.
      (4)   Anchoring. All new, relocated, and replacement manufactured homes
to be placed or substantially improved in a flood hazard area shall be
installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage and shall be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (5)   Enclosures. Fully enclosed areas below elevated manufactured homes
shall comply with the requirements of division (O)(2).
      (6)   Protection of mechanical equipment and outside appliances.
Mechanical equipment and outside appliances shall be elevated to or above the
elevation of the bottom of the frame required in division (O)(2) of these
regulations.
         Exception. Where such equipment and appliances are designed and
installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within their
components and the systems are constructed to resist hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the
occurrence of flooding up to the elevation required by division (O)(2), the
systems and equipment shall be permitted to be located below that elevation.
Electrical wiring systems shall be permitted below the design flood elevation
provided they conform to the provisions of NFPA 70 (National Electric Code).
   (M)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Placement prohibited. The placement of recreational vehicles shall
not be authorized in coastal high hazard areas and in floodways.
      (2)   Temporary placement. Recreational vehicles in flood hazard areas
shall be fully licensed and ready for highway use and shall be placed on a site
for less than 180 consecutive days.
      (3)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that are not fully
licensed and ready for highway use, or that are to be placed on a site for more
than 180 consecutive days, shall meet the requirements of division (O)(2) for
habitable buildings and division (L)(3).
   (N)   Tanks. Underground and above-ground tanks shall be designed,
constructed, installed, and anchored in accordance with ASCE 24 and N.J.A.C. 7:
13.
   (O)   Other development and building work.
      (1)   General requirements for other development and building work. All
development and building work, including man-made changes to improved or
unimproved real estate for which specific provisions are not specified in these
regulations or the Uniform Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:23), shall:
         (a)   Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (b)   Meet the limitations of division (E)(3)(a) of this section when
located in a regulated floodway;
         (c)   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy, during the conditions of flooding up to the Local Design Flood
Elevation determined according to division (B)(3);
         (d)   Be constructed of flood damage- resistant materials as described
in ASCE 24 Chapter 5;
         (e)   Have mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems above the
Local Design Flood Elevation determined according to division (B)(3) or meet
the requirements of ASCE 24 Chapter 7 which requires that attendant utilities
are located above the Local Design Flood Elevation unless the attendant
utilities and equipment are:
            1.    Specifically allowed below the Local Design Flood Elevation;
and
            2.    Designed, constructed, and installed to prevent floodwaters,
including any backflow through the system, from entering or accumulating within
the components.
         (f)   Not exceed the flood storage displacement limitations in fluvial
flood hazard areas in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:13; and
         (g)   Not exceed the impacts to frequency or depth of offsite flooding
as required by N.J.A.C. 7:13 in floodways.
      (2)   Requirements for habitable buildings and structures.
         (a)   Construction and Elevation in A Zones not including Coastal A
Zones.
            1.   No portion of a building is located within a V Zone.
            2.   No portion of a building is located within a Coastal A Zone,
unless a licensed design professional certifies that the building's foundation
is designed in accordance with ASCE 24, Chapter 4.
            3.   All new construction and substantial improvement of any
habitable building (as defined in division (I)) located in flood hazard areas
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, together with the attendant
utilities (including all electrical, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and
other service equipment) and sanitary facilities, elevated to or above the
Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in division (B)(3), be in
conformance with ASCE Chapter 7, and be confirmed by an Elevation Certificate.
            4.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
               A.    Have the lowest floor, including basement, together with
the attendant utilities (including all electrical, heating, ventilating, air-
conditioning and other service equipment) and sanitary facilities, elevated to
or above the Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in division (B)(3), be
in conformance with ASCE Chapter 7, and be confirmed by an Elevation
Certificate; or
               B.    Together with the attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the Local Design Flood Elevation, the
structure:
                  i.    Meets the requirements of ASCE 24 Chapters 2 and 7; and
                  ii.    Is constructed according to the design plans and
specifications provided at permit application and signed by a licensed design
professional, is certified by that individual in a Floodproofing Certificate,
and is confirmed by an Elevation Certificate.
            5.   All new construction and substantial improvements with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor shall be used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding. Enclosures shall:
               A.   For habitable structures, be situated at or above the
adjoining exterior grade along at least one entire exterior wall, in order to
provide positive drainage of the enclosed area in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:
13; enclosures (including crawlspaces and basements) which are below grade on
all sides are prohibited;
               B.   Be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters
unless the structure is non-residential and the requirements of division (O)(2)
(a)4.B. are met;
               C.   Be constructed to meet the requirements of ASCE 24 Chapter
2;
               D.    Have openings documented on an Elevation Certificate; and
               E.    Have documentation that a deed restriction has been
obtained for the lot if the enclosure is greater than six feet in height. This
deed restriction shall be recorded in the Office of the County Clerk or the
Registrar of Deeds and Mortgages in which the building is located, shall
conform to the requirements in N.J.A.C. 7:13, and shall be recorded within 90
days of receiving a Flood Hazard Area Control Act permit or prior to the start
of any site disturbance (including pre-construction earth movement, removal of
vegetation and structures, or construction of the project), whichever is
sooner. Deed restrictions must explain and disclose that:
                  i.    The enclosure is likely to be inundated by floodwaters
which may result in damage and/or inconvenience.
                  ii.    The depth of flooding that the enclosure would
experience to the Flood Hazard Area Design Flood Elevation;
                  iii .   The deed restriction prohibits habitation of the
enclosure and explains that converting the enclosure into a habitable area may
subject the property owner to enforcement;
      (3)   Garages and accessory storage structures. Garages and accessory
storage structures shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
Uniform Construction Code.
      (4)   Fences. Fences in floodways that have the potential to block the
passage of floodwater, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, shall meet
the requirements of division (E)(3)(a) of these regulations. Pursuant to
N.J.A.C. 7:13, any fence located in a floodway shall have sufficiently large
openings so as not to catch debris during a flood and thereby obstruct
floodwaters, such as barbed-wire, split-rail, or strand fence. A fence with
little or no open area, such as a chain link, lattice, or picket fence, does
not meet this requirement. Foundations for fences greater than six feet in
height must conform with the Uniform Construction Code. Fences for pool
enclosures having openings not in conformance with this section but in
conformance with the Uniform Construction Code to limit climbing require a
variance as described in division (G) of this section.
      (5)   Retaining walls, sidewalks, and driveways. Retaining walls,
sidewalks and driveways that involve placement of fill in floodways shall meet
the requirements of division (E)(3)(a) of these regulations and N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (6)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Uniform Construction Code. Above-ground swimming pools and
below-ground swimming pools that involve placement of fill in floodways shall
also meet the requirements of division (E)(3)(a) of these regulations. Above-
ground swimming pools are prohibited in floodways by N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (7)   Roads and watercourse crossings.
         (a)   For any railroad, roadway, or parking area proposed in a flood
hazard area, the travel surface shall be constructed at least one foot above
the Flood Hazard Area Design Elevation in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:13.
         (b)   Roads and watercourse crossings that encroach into regulated
floodways or riverine waterways with base flood elevations where floodways have
not been designated, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water crossings
and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side of a
watercourse to the other side, shall meet the requirements of division (E)(3)
(a) of these regulations.
   (P)   Temporary structures and temporary storage.
      (1)   Temporary structures. Temporary structures shall be erected for a
period of less than 180 days. Temporary structures shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood. Fully
enclosed temporary structures shall have flood openings that are in accordance
with ASCE 24 to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
      (2)   Temporary storage. Temporary storage includes storage of goods and
materials for a period of less than 180 days. Stored materials shall not
include hazardous materials.
      (3)   Floodway encroachment. Temporary structures and temporary storage
in floodways shall meet the requirements of division (E)(3)(a) of these
regulations.
   (Q)   Utility and Miscellaneous Group U.
      (1)   Utility and Miscellaneous Group U. In accordance with Section 312
of the International Building Code, Utility and Miscellaneous Group U includes
buildings and structures that are accessory in character and miscellaneous
structures not classified in any specific occupancy in the Building Code,
including, but not limited to, agricultural buildings, aircraft hangars
(accessory to a one- or two-family residence), barns, carports, communication
equipment structures (gross floor area less than 1,500 sq. ft.), fences more
than six feet (1,829 mm) high, grain silos (accessory to a residential
occupancy), livestock shelters, private garages, retaining walls, sheds,
stables, tanks and towers.
      (2)   Flood loads. Utility and miscellaneous Group U buildings and
structures, including substantial improvement of such buildings and structures,
shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting
from flood loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions up to
the Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in division (B)(3).
      (3)   Elevation. Utility and miscellaneous Group U buildings and
structures, including substantial improvement of such buildings and structures,
shall be elevated such that the lowest floor, including basement, is elevated
to or above the Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in division (B)(3)
and in accordance with ASCE 24. Utility lines shall be designed and elevated in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (4)   Enclosures below base flood elevation. Fully enclosed areas below
the design flood elevation shall be constructed in accordance with division (O)
(2) and with ASCE 24 for new construction and substantial improvements.
Existing enclosures such as a basement or crawlspace having a floor that is
below grade along all adjoining exterior walls shall be abandoned, filled-in,
and/or otherwise modified to conform with the requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:13
when the project has been determined to be a substantial improvement by the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (5)   Flood-damage resistant materials. Flood- damage-resistant materials
shall be used below the Local Design Flood Elevation determined in division (B)
(3).
      (6)   Protection of mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems.
Mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems, equipment and components,
heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing fixtures, duct systems, and
other service equipment, shall be elevated to or above the Local Design Flood
Elevation determined in division (B)(3).
      Exception: Electrical systems, equipment and components, and heating,
ventilating, air conditioning, and plumbing appliances, plumbing fixtures, duct
systems, and other service equipment shall be permitted to be located below the
Local Design Flood Elevation provided that they are designed and installed to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components and to resist
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of
buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding to the Local Design Flood Elevation
in compliance with the flood-resistant construction requirements of ASCE 24.
Electrical wiring systems shall be permitted to be located below the Local
Design Flood Elevation provided they conform to the provisions of NFPA 70
(National Electric Code).
(Ord. 438-23, passed 7-24-23)
APPENDIX A: ADJACENT SITE ZONING BUFFER STANDARDS
                                    Retail
                  Single-  Residen- Neigh-            Public                    Commer-
Proposed Agricul- Family   tial     borhood    Office Quasi- Warehouse Manufac- cial and
Land Use tural    Detached other    Shops and  (Ft.)  Public (Ft.)     turing   Regional
         (Ft.)    (SFD)    than SFD Highway           (Ft.)            (Ft.)    (Ft.)
                  (Ft.)    (Ft.)    Commercial
                                    (Ft.)
                                         Retail
                       Single-  Residen- Neigh-            Public                    Commer-
Proposed Land Agricul- Family   tial     borhood    Office Quasi- Warehouse Manufac- cial and
Use           tural    Detached other    Shops and  (Ft.)  Public (Ft.)     turing   Regional
              (Ft.)    (SFD)    than SFD Highway           (Ft.)            (Ft.)    (Ft.)
                       (Ft.)    (Ft.)    Commercial
                                         (Ft.)
Agricultural  None     25       25       25         25     25     25        25       25
Single-Family 50       None     25       50         50     50     75        75       50
Detached
Residential
other than    50       50       25       50         50     50     75        75       50
SFD
Retail/Neigh- 50       50       50       50         25     25     25        25       25
borhood shops
Community and
Regional      50       75       75       25         25     25     25        25       25
Commercial
Office        50       75       75       25         25     25     25        25       25
Public/Quasi- 50       75       75       25         25     25     25        25       25
Public
Warehouse     150      150      150      25         25     25     25        25       25
Manufacturing 150      150      150      25         25     25     25        25       25
 
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF LIMITATIONS
     Mini-          Building Setbacks                                                                                  Parking Area Setbacks
     mum   Mini-mum Front Yard (Ft.)     Rear Yard (Ft.)      Side Yard     Front Yard (Ft.)Maximum  Rear Yard (Ft.)          Side Yard
     Lot   Lot                                                (Ft.)         Maxi-  Imper-   Clearing Open    Distance         (Ft.)
Zone Size  Frontage State  County Town-  County Rear Residen- Side Residen- mum    vious    Limit    Space   Between   State  County Town-  County Rear Residen- Side Residen-
     (Sq.  (Ft.)    Right- Right- ship   Right- Lot  tial     Lot  tial     Height Coverage (%)      Subdiv- Buildings Right- Right- ship   Right- Lot  tial     Lot  tial
     Ft.)           of-Way of-Way Right- of-Way Line Zone     Line Zone            (%)               ision   (Ft.)     of-Way of-Way Right- of-Way Line Zone     Line Zone
                                  of-Way                                                                                             of-Way
                                                Building Setbacks                                                                                                                                                                            Parking Area Setbacks
                                       Mini-mum Front Yard (Ft.)                 Rear Yard (Ft.)      Side Yard (Ft.)            Front Yard (Ft.)                                                                 Rear Yard (Ft.)                   Side Yard
            Mini-mum Lot Size (Sq.     Lot                                                                                                                                                      Maximum Clearing  Open     Minimum Distance         (Ft.)
Zone        Ft.)                       Frontage                    County Town-  County Rear Residen-                   Residen- Maxi-mum Height               Maximum Imper-vious Coverage (%) Limit (%)         Space    Between Buildings State  County Town-  County                   Residen-                   Residen-
                                       (Ft.)    State Right-of-Way Right- ship   Right- Lot  tial     Side Lot Line     tial                                                                                      Subdiv-  (Ft.)             Right- Right- ship   Right- Rear Lot Line     tial     Side Lot Line     tial
                                                                   of-Way Right- of-Way Line Zone                       Zone                                                                                      ision                      of-Way of-Way Right- of-Way                   Zone                       Zone
                                                                          of-Way                                                                                                                                                                           of-Way
R.R. Rural  1 acre 43,500              100      NA                 50     50     75     30   NA       30                NA       2½ stories                   25                               NA                10%      NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
Residence
R-100A      15,000 average See § 160.
Residence   068                        100      NA                 50     35     75     35   NA       15                NA       2½ stories                   45                               NA                20%      NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
100A
RD-                                    90                                                             10 one side 30
2 Residence 12,500 See § 160. 098     average  NA                 50     30     75     25   NA       both sides        NA       2½ stories                   45                               NA                20%      NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
District 2
R-100B                                 100 at                                                         15 See also §
Residence   12,500                     setback  NA                 50     35     75     35   NA       160.118           NA       2½ stories                   45                               NA                20%      NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
100B
R-100
Residence   12,500                     100      NA                 50     30     50     25   NA       15                NA       2½ stories                   45                               NA                20%      NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
100
R-75
Residence   9,375                      75       NA                 50     30     50     20   NA       10                NA       2½ stories                   45                               NA                20%      NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
75
R-10                                   400 on                                                                                                                                                                              50 front and
Residence   10 acres See § 160. 203   county   100                75     50     50     50   NA       50                NA       35 feet                       60                               NA                NA       back: 30 sides    NA     35     20     35     25                25       25                25
10                                     road
C.R.
Cluster     1 acre 43,500 square feet  160      NA                 75     50     75     30   NA       30                NA       30 feet                       NA                               NA                NA       NA                NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                NA       NA                NA
Residential
N.B.
Neighbor-   12,500                     100      100                50     30     20     20   25       8                 25       2½ stories                   80                               NA                NA       8                 NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                25       NA                25
hood
Business
G.B.
General     12,500                     100      100                50     30     20     20   25       8                 25       2½ stories                   80                               NA                NA       8                 NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                25       NA                25
Business
G.B.-       50 acres See also §
2 General   160.269                    NA       100                50     50     25     25   25       25                25       160 feet                      75                               NA                NA       NA                50     35     25     25     25                25       25                25
Business 2
H.B.
Highway     12,500                     100      100                50     30     20     20   25       8                 25       2½ stories                   80                               NA                NA       8                 NA     NA     NA     NA     NA                25       NA                25
Business
R.H.B.
Restricted  5 acres                    400      100                50     35     50     50   100      30                100      50 feet                       70% See § 160.307               75% See § 160.307NA       NA                50     35     25     25     25                50       25 See § 160.307 50
Highway
Business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100 or
                                                                                             15                         15                                                                                        500
T.C.        Tract: 350 acres Lot:      100                                                   residen-                   residen-                                                                                  square                                                                   25                         25
Township    1,000 square feet to       except   100                50     30     15     15   tial: 25 15 See § 160.327 tial: 25 75 to 200 feet See § 160.327 30 of tract area: See § 160.327 NA                feet per 30                ­     ­     ­     ­     ­                commer-  ­                commer-
Center      10,000 square feet         town-                                                 commer-  (I)               commer-  (K)                           (C)                                                unit                                                                     cial                       cial
                                       houses                                                cial                       cial                                                                                      whatever
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  greater
I.Z.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25 See § 160.344
Industrial  1 acre See § 160.344      100      100                50     50     50     50   100      25                100      50 feet                       75                               80                NA       NA                50     50     50     50     25                100      (I)               100
Zone
O-1 Office  12,500                     100      100                50     30     50     30   30       10                25       2½ stories                   75                               80                NA       NA                50     20     20     20     15 See § 160.388 25       10 See § 160.388 25
1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (H)                        (H)
O-2 Office  2 acres                    200      100                50     30     50     50   50       25                50       35 feet                       65                               70                NA       NA                45     20     20     20     25                50       12.5 See §       50
2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   160.407
O-3 Office  3 acres                    200      100 See § 160.463 50     50     50     50   100      50                100      50 feet                       70 See § 160.463(H)             75 See § 160.463 NA       30 See § 160.463 50     25     25     25     50                100      25 See § 160.463 100
3                                               (C)                                                                                                                                             (J)                        (K)                                                                      (I)
S.C.
Shopping    5 acres                    400      100                50     30     50     50   100      30                100      50 feet                       70 See § 160.518                75 See § 160.518 NA       20                50     35     25     35     25                50       25                30
Center
M.F.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20 See § 160.542          10 See § 160.542
Municipal   2 acres                    200      100                50     50     50     30   30       30                30       50 feet                       75                               NA                NA       NA                None   25     20     25     (G)               25       (G)               25
Facilities
1.   The Schedule of Limitations is designed as a quick reference guide to the bulk regulations of the township and is not intended as a complete summation of all such regulations
2.   All uses located on a state or county road of highway, or located on Cooper Road, shall have a front yard setback of not less than 50 feet from the property line
3.   Front yard setback in Elm Tree Farms section shall be 500 feet
APPENDIX C: LAND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW SUBMISSION REQUIREMENT CHECKLIST
   Voorhees Township
   Land Development Review
   Submission Requirements Checklist € Subdivisions, Site Plans, GDP's and
Conditional Uses
Applicant:                        Development Name:               
Application Number:               
          Conditional Minor*             General*    Subdivision*      Site Plan*
  Concept Use/Not     Site   Minor*      Development                                      C I N/ W/
  Plan    Home        Plan   Subdivision Plan        Preliminary Final Preliminary Final      A  V
          Occupation
                             Conditional Minor*               General*    Subdivision*      Site Plan*
                   Concept   Use/Not     Site     Minor*      Development                                      C I N/ W/
                   Plan      Home        Plan     Subdivision Plan        Preliminary Final Preliminary Final      A  V
                             Occupation
   Development
1  review          +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   application
2  Affidavit of    +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   ownership
   Variance
3  application                           +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   form, if
   applicable
4  Application and +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   escrow fees
   Proof of
5  current tax               **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   payment
   Name and
6  address of      +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   owner and
   applicant
   Name,
   signature,
   license number,
   seal and
   address of
7  engineer, land            **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   surveyor,
   architect,
   landscape
   architect, as
   applicable
   Title block
   denoting type
   of application,
   tax map sheet,
8  county,                   **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   municipality,
   block and lot
   and street
   address
   Key map from
   official tax
   map showing
   location of
   tract to
9  surrounding     (general) **          +        +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   streets,        +                                          +
   municipal
   boundaries, and
   the like,
   within 1,000
   feet
   Schedule of
   required and
   proposed zone
   (s)
   requirements
10 for lot area,             **          +        +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   frontage,                                                  +
   setbacks,
   impervious
   coverage,
   parking, and
   the like
   North arrow to
11 top of sheet,             **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   scale and
   graphic scale
   Signature block
   for Board
12 Chairperson,              **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   Secretary,
   Engineer and
   Municipal Clerk
   Certification
13 block as                                       +                       +           +
   required by map
   filing law
   Monumentation
14 as required by                                 +                                   +
   map filing law
15 Date of                   **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   property survey
   One of four
   standard sheet
16 sizes as                  **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   required by map
   filing law
   Metes and
   bounds
   description
   showing
   dimensions,
   bearings, curve
   data, length of
   tangents,
17 radii, arcs,              **                   +                                   +                 +
   chords and
   central angles
   for all
   centerlines and
   rights-of-way
   and centerline
   curves on
   streets
   Acreage of                                                 +
18 tract to                  **          +        +           (nearest    +           +     +           +
   nearest tenth                                              acre)
   Date of
19 original/all    +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   revisions
   Size and
   location of
   existing or
20 proposed        (general) **          +        +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   structures and  +                                          +
   their
   dimensioned
   setbacks
   Minimum zoning
   setback lines
   and lot
   frontage
21 dimensions for  +         **          +        +                       +           +     +           +
   principal
   buildings to be
   shown on all
   lots
   Location and
   dimensions of
22 any existing or (general) **          +        +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   proposed        +                                          +
   rights-of-way
   and cartways
   All proposed
23 lot lines and                         +        +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   area of lots in                                            +
   square feet
   Copy and plan
   delineation of  (exist-                                    (existing)
24 any existing or ing)      **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   proposed deed   +
   restriction
   Any existing or
   proposed
25 easement or     +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   land reserved
   or dedicated
   for public use
   Plan
   delineation of                                             (general)
26 any proposed              **                               +           +           +     +           +
   development
   phasing
   Property owners
   and lot lines
27 within 200 feet           **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   and in correct
   reference to
   subject parcel
   Existing
   streets, other
   rights-of-way
   or easements,
   watercourses,
   wetlands,       (general)             (within              (general)
28 soils,          +         **          50 feet) +           +           +           +     +           +
   floodplains or                        +
   other
   environmentally
   sensitive area
   within 200 feet
   of tract
   Topographical
   features of
29 subject                   **                               +
   property from
   USGS 7.5 minute
   maps
   The proposed
   clearing limits
   along with
   existing and                          (50-foot
30 proposed        (general) **          exten-   +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   contours based  +                     sion)                +
   on USGS datum,                        +
   to extend 200
   feet beyond
   subject tract
   Boundary
   limits, nature
   and extent of
   wooded area,
   trees 5-inch
31 dbh or greater  (general) **          +        +           (general)   +           +     +           +
   within clearing +                                          +
   limits and
   other
   significant
   physical
   features***
   Existing
   drainage
   system,
   including any
32 larger tract of           **                                           +           +     +           +
   which the site
   is a part and a
   drainage divide
   map
   Drainage
   calculations
   for all                                                    (basic
   existing and                                               basin
33 proposed                  **          +                    sizing: SCS +           +     +           +
   inlets, piping,                                            TR-55
   swales,                                                    method)
   detention and
   retention
   basins
   Existing and
   proposed
   utilities:
   sanitary sewer,                                            (general    (no cable or      (no cable or
   water,                                                     availabili  telephone         telephone
34 stormwater                **          +        +           ty)         required)         required)
   management,                                                +           +                 +
   telephone,
   cable
   television and
   electric
                                         5,000
   Soil erosion                          square
35 and sediment                          feet or                          +           +     +           +
   control plan                          more of
                                         disturb-
                                         ance
   Spot and
   finished
   elevations at
   all property
   corners,
36 corners of all            **          +                    (general)   +           +     +           +
   structures,                                                +
   paved areas,
   existing or
   proposed first
   floor
   elevations
   Construction
   details, road                         (no
37 and paving                **          profiles                         +           +     +           +
   cross-sections                        needed)
   and profiles
38 Proposed street           **                                           +           +     +           +
   names
   New block and
39 lot numbers                                    +                                   +
   confirmed by
   tax assessor
40 Lighting plan             **          +                                +           +     +           +
   and details
41 Landscape plan            **          +                    (general)   +           +     +           +
   and details                                                +
   Solid waste
42 management and            **          +                                                  +           +
   recycling
   Locations and
   details of site
   identification
43 signs, traffic-           **          +                                +           +     +           +
   control signs
   and directional
   signs
44 Sight triangles           **          +                                +           +     +           +
   Vehicular and
45 pedestrian      (general) **          +                    (general)   +           +     +           +
   circulation     +                                          +
   patterns
   Parking plan
   indicating
   spaces, size
   and type, aisle
   width, internal
   collectors,
   curb cuts,
   drives and
46 driveways and             **          +                                                  +           +
   all ingress and
   egress areas
   with dimensions
   in accordance
   with federal
   accessibility
   standards, if
   applicable
   Preliminary
47 architectural             **          +                                                  +
   plans and
   elevations
   Environmental
   impact report;
   parcels five
48 acres or larger           **          +                                +                 +
   or those in an
   environmentally
   sensitive area
   All applicable
   outside agency
   approvals,
   including but
49 not limited to            **          +        +                                   +                 +
   County Planning
   Board, NJDEPE,
   County Soil
   Conservation
   District
   Public notice
   required note:
   any application
   which requires
   a variance must
   provide public
   notice.                                                    (variance
   Variances are                                  (when       s for
50 not granted at            **          +        requesting  disclosur   +                 +
   time of final                                  a variance) e only)
   application. If                                +           +
   a variance is
   needed you must
   submit a
   preliminary
   application,
   including
   amended plans
   Existing and
   proposed signs
   and/or fences,
51 details, sign   +         **          +        +           +           +           +     +           +
   areas and
   locations must
   be shown
*   Including amended plans
**   Conditional use applications also must obtain site plan approval. If the development fits the description of a
minor site plan, then those requirements should be followed. If it does not, then preliminary and final site plan
requirements apply.
***   The plan showing wooded areas, significant trees and significant physical features should be superimposed on the
grading plan.
CHAPTER 160: BUILDINGS, UNSAFE
Section
   
160.01   Purpose and authority
   
160.02   Enforcing agency
   
160.03   Procedure
   
160.04   Costs to become lien
   
160.05   Standards
   
160.06   Service of complaint or order
   
160.07   Injunctive relief
   
160.08   Additional powers of Construction Official
   
160.09   Authorization to abate nuisance; lien
   
160.10   Appointment of custodian; receivership action
§ 160.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is hereby determined by the Township Committee and hereby declared
that there exist in the township buildings and other structures which are so
old, dilapidated or have become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use and are
inimical to the welfare and dangerous and injurious to the health and safety of
the people of the township and that a public necessity exists for the repair,
closing or demolition of such buildings or structures.
   (B)   Therefore, this chapter is hereby adopted to give the township,
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.5 et seq., to exercise the township's police power
to repair, close or demolish or cause or require the repairing, closing or
demolition of such buildings, mobile home parks or other facilities, or part or
parts thereof, or to abate any nuisance or correct any condition in accordance
with the terms of N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.12f-l.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.02 ENFORCING AGENCY.
   The Construction Official for the township is hereby designated and
appointed as the public officer authorized to exercise the powers prescribed in
this chapter.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.03 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When a petition is filed with the Construction Official by the
Township Committee or by at least five residents of the municipality charging
that any building, as defined by N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.4, is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use, or whenever it appears to the Construction
Official, on his or her own motion with notice to the Township Committee, that
any such building is unfit for human habitation or occupancy or use, the
Construction Official shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses
a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in the buildings, a complaint stating the charges in that
respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Construction Official, or his or her designated agent, at a place therein
fixed, not less than seven days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to file
an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. The rules of evidence
prevailing in the courts shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Construction Official.
   (B)   If, after notice of hearing, the public officer determines that the
building under construction is unfit for human habitation or use, he or she
shall state, in writing, his or her findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall issue or cause to be served upon the owner thereof or
the parties in interest an order:
      (1)   Requiring the repair, alteration, or improvement of the building to
be made by the owner within a reasonable time, which time shall be set forth in
the order, or at the option of the owner to vacate or have the building vacated
and closed within the times set forth in the order.
      (2)   That if the building is in such a condition as to make it dangerous
to the health and safety of persons on or near the premises, and the owner
fails to repair, alter or improve the building within the time specified in the
order, then the owner shall be required to remove or demolish the building
within a reasonable time as specified in the order of removal.
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the building, the
Construction Official may cause the building to be repaired, altered or
improved, or to be vacated and closed. The Construction Official may cause to
be posted, on the main entrance of any building so closed, a placard with the
following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or
use; the use or occupation of this building is prohibited and unlawful."
   (D)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
building, the Construction Official may cause the building to be removed or
demolished or may contract for the removal of demolition thereof after
advertisement for and receipt of bids therefor.
   (E)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
and the owner elects not to comply with the order or to vacate or cause to be
vacated the premises, the Construction Official may proceed with the
appropriate procedures as set forth below.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.04 COSTS TO BECOME LIEN.
   All costs to the municipality (legal fees, expert fees, search fees and
advertising charges, repairs, alterations or improvements or vacating and
closing or removal or demolition) shall become municipal liens against the real
property upon which the costs were incurred in accordance with the provisions
of N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.5(f).
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.05 STANDARDS.
   The Construction Official may determine that a building is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy or use if he or she finds that conditions exist in the
building that are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the
occupants of such building, the occupants of neighboring buildings or other
residents of the township. Such conditions may include are not limited to
defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other calamities;
lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; dilapidation;
disrepair; structural defects; and uncleanliness.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.06 SERVICE OF COMPLAINT OR ORDER.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Construction Official pursuant to this
chapter shall be served upon persons either by registered mail; or, if the
whereabouts of the person is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the
Construction Official in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the
Construction Official shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the serving
of the complaint or order upon such persons may be made by publishing the same
one time in the official newspaper of the township. A copy of the complaint or
order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the
complaint or order. A copy of the complaint or order shall be duly recorded or
lodged for record with the County Clerk of Camden County.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.07 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Construction Official under
this chapter, may, within 30 days after the posting and service of the order,
bring an action for injunctive relief to restrain the Construction Official
from carrying out the provisions of the order, in accordance with the
provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:48-2.8. The remedy herein provided shall be
exclusive, and no person affected by an order of the Construction Official
shall be entitled to recover any damages for action taken pursuant thereto, or
because of noncompliance by any person with any order of the Construction
Official.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.08 ADDITIONAL POWERS OF CONSTRUCTION OFFICIAL.
   The Construction Official may exercise the following powers as may be
necessary and convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and
provisions of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to those
already granted under this chapter:
   (A)   To investigate the building conditions in the municipality in order to
determine which buildings therein are unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or
use.
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence.
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations,
provided that these entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession.
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter
to officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.09 AUTHORIZATION TO ABATE NUISANCE; LIEN.
   The Township Committee, by resolution, may authorize the Construction
Official to abate a nuisance, correct a defect or put the premises in proper
condition so as to comply with the requirements of any township ordinance or
state law applicable thereto, at the cost of the owner or lessor, and expend
municipal funds for such purposes and charge the same against the premises, and
the amount thereof, as determined by the Township Committee, shall be a lien
against the premises.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
§ 160.10 APPOINTMENT OF CUSTODIAN; RECEIVERSHIP ACTION.
   (A)   The Township Committee may, by resolution, appoint a custodian of any
such building, structure or premises on behalf of the township, who may be
either an officer of the township or any other person specially designated to
enter into and take charge of the premises and supervise abatement of the
nuisance, the correction of the defective condition or the maintenance of the
premises in a proper condition so as to conform to the requirements of all
municipal ordinances and state laws applicable thereto.
   (B)   If the custodian is some person other than a full-time employee of the
township, he or she shall be paid an hourly rate equal to those township
employees paid by the annual salary ordinance receiving the highest hourly
rate. The costs and expenses of the custodian shall be collectible by the
municipality from the owner or lessor of the premises provided in this chapter.
   (C)   In the event that any owner of a building or structure or premises in
the township shall violate the provisions of this chapter, or fail to abate a
condition harmful to the health and safety of the occupants of the premises and
the general public in the municipality after notice and opportunity to do so,
the Construction Official may, by and with the approval of the Township
Committee, bring an action in the Superior Court to be appointed receiver ex
officio of the rents and income of such real property for the purpose of
collecting the rents and income from the property and expend the same for
purpose of abating said conditions. The rents and income so collected by the
receiver shall also be available for the payment of such costs and expensives
of the receivership, as may be adjudged by the court, and for the payment to
the municipality of any fines or penalties which may have been imposed on the
owner for violations of this chapter and which have not been paid by the person
liable therefor. Such receiver shall not be required to give bond and shall be
appointed only for said purpose.
   (D)   Upon his or her appointment, the receiver, by and with the approval of
the governing body of the township in all cases where the property in question
is encumbered by a first mortgage, shall appoint the first mortgagee, if the
mortgagee is a proper person and is willing to accept the appointment, as the
receiver's agent to collect the rents and income from the real property and
manage the same, and in all other cases the receiver, by and with the approval
of the Township Committee, may designate the person in charge or management of
the real property or such other competent person as the receiver's agent to
collect the rents and income from the real property and manage the same, with
mortgagee or other person shall account promptly to the receiver for the rents
and income so collected; provided, however, that if the mortgagee or other
person so designated is derelict in collecting or accounting for the rents and
income or in the management of the real property, the receiver shall apply to
the court for the removal of such designated mortgagee or other person, upon
notice in writing to him or her, and the court, upon removing such designated
mortgagee or other person, in its discretion, may designate another person to
collect the rents and income from the real property and manage the same and
account to the receiver for the rents and income of the real property as
aforesaid.
   (E)   In any receivership, no fees shall be allowed the receiver, or his or
her counsel, for actions as such receiver or counsel.
(Ord. 226-13, passed 1-25-13)
CHAPTER 161: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
161.01   Creditor responsibility
   
161.02   Designated representative of out-of-state creditor; violation
   
161.03   Additional notice required
   
161.04   Abandoned property list
 
   
161.99   Penalty
§ 161.01 CREDITOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of P. L. 2014, c. 35, a creditor filing a summons
and complaint to foreclose a lien on a residential property that is vacant and
abandoned, whether the filing of the summons and complaint is made before or
after the determination that the property is vacant and abandoned, shall be
responsible for the care, maintenance, security and upkeep of the exterior of
the residential property. This obligation applies whether the determination
that the property is vacant and abandoned is made by the public officer
pursuant to the provisions of P.L. 2014, c. 35 and/or the Code of the Township
of Voorhees, pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 2A:50-73 or otherwise.
(Ord. 254-14, passed 10-14-14)
§ 161.02 DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE OF OUT-OF-STATE CREDITOR; VIOLATION.
   An out-of-state creditor shall include the full name and contact information
of the in-state representative or agent in the notice required to be provided
to the Municipal Clerk pursuant to paragraph one of N.J.S.A. 46:10B-51. An out-
of-state creditor found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have violated
this provision shall be subject to a fine of $2,500 for each day of the
violation commencing on the day after the ten day period set forth in paragraph
one of N.J.S.A. 46:10B-51 with respect to notifying the Municipal Clerk that an
action to foreclose on the property as been filed.
(Ord. 254-14, passed 10-14-14)
§ 161.03 ADDITIONAL NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Notice of violations of property maintenance, building or other property
codes for any property declared vacant and abandoned pursuant to this chapter
shall be given to a foreclosing creditor pursuant to the procedures as required
by P.L. 2014, c. 35.
(Ord. 254-14, passed 10-14-14)
§ 161.04 ABANDONED PROPERTY LIST.
   (A)   The township’s Director of Community and Economic Development is
hereby directed to identify abandoned properties within the municipality, place
said properties on an abandoned property list established as provided in
Section 36 of P.L. 1996, c. 62 (C.55:19-55), as amended by Section 28 of P.L.
2003, c. 210, and provide such notices and carry out such other tasks as are
required to effectuate an abandoned property list as provided by law.
   (B)   The abandoned property list shall apply to the township as a whole.
   (C)   The Director of Community and Economic Development is hereby
designated as the public officer for the purpose of carrying out the
responsibilities established by this section, and shall have all the
responsibilities and powers provided by law.
   (D)   The Director of Community and Economic Development shall exercise the
authority granted the municipality pursuant to Section 13 of P.L. 2003, c. 210,
to designate qualified rehabilitation entities to act as the designee of the
municipality with respect to the provisions of that section.
   (E)   The public officer shall provide a report to the Mayor and governing
body every six months, with respect to the number and location of properties on
the abandoned property list, the status of those properties, and any actions
taken by the municipality or by any qualified rehabilitation entity designated
pursuant to the authority granted the public officer with respect to any
property on the list or any other abandoned property within the township.
(Ord. 318-18, passed 2-12-18)
§ 161.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity, including a creditor, required to
care, maintain, secure and keep up a property under this chapter cited in a
notice issued pursuant hereto for violating any provision of this chapter,
shall upon conviction, be punishable and subject to a fine of $1,500 for each
day of the violation.
(Ord. 254-14, passed 10-14-14)
CHAPTER 162: REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED MORTGAGE PROPERTY
Section
   
162.01   Purpose and intent
   
162.02   Definitions
   
162.03   Establishment and administration of registry
   
162.04   Registration, notice, and other creditor requirements
   
162.05   Fees, violations and penalties
§ 162.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter, as further detailed within its enabling
ordinance, to enable the Township of Voorhees to engage in the identification,
registration, monitoring, and migration of properties that are or may become
vacant and abandoned to the fullest extent permitted by P.L. 2021, c. 444, in
order to combat the immeasurable and deleterious effects of blight arising from
residential and commercial properties that become vacant or abandoned during
the foreclosure process.
(Ord. 408-22, passed 9-12-22)
§ 162.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All words, terms, and phrases used within this chapter shall be
defined and interpreted consistent with their meanings as outlined within P.L.
2021, c. 444 as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CREDITOR. A state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association or credit union, any person required to be licensed under the
provisions of the "New Jersey Residential Mortgage Lending Act," sections 1
through 21 39 of P.L. 2009, c. 53 (C.17:11C-51 through C.17:11C-89), and any
entity, agent, or assignee acting on behalf of the creditor named in the debt
obligation including, but not limited to, servicers, who has filed a complaint
in the Superior Court seeking to foreclose upon a residential or commercial
mortgage. A CREDITOR shall not include the state, a political subdivision of
the state, or a state, county, or local government entity, or their agent or
assignee, such as the servicer and excluding governmental entities as assignee
or owner.
      VACANT AND ABANDONED PROPERTY.
         (a)   The property is not legally occupied by a mortgagor or tenant,
and
         (b)   The property is not legally reoccupied, because of at least two
of the following conditions:
            1.    Overgrown or neglected vegetation;
            2.   The accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers, or mail on
the property;
            3.    Disconnected gas, electric, or water utility services to the
property;
            4.   The accumulation of hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials on the property;
            5.   The accumulation of junk, litter, trash or debris on the
property;
            6.   The absence of window treatments such as blinds, curtains or
shutters;
            7.   The absence of furnishings and personal items;
            8.    Statements of neighbors, delivery persons, or government
employees indicating that the property is vacant and abandoned;
            9.   Windows or entrances to the property that are boarded up or
closed off, or multiple window panes that are damaged, broken and unrepaired;
            10.   Doors to the property that are smashed through, broken off,
unhinged, or continuously unlocked;
            11.   A risk to the health, safety or welfare of the public or any
adjoining or adjacent property owners due to acts of vandalism, loitering,
criminal conduct, or the physical destruction or deterioration of the property;
            12.   An uncorrected violation of a municipal building, housing or
similar code during the preceding year, or an order by municipal authorities
declaring the property to be unfit for occupancy and to remain vacant and
unoccupied;
            13.   The mortgagee or other authorized party has secured or
winterized the property due to the property being deemed vacant and unprotected
or in danger of freezing;
            14.   A written statement issued by a mortgagor expressing the
clear intent of all mortgagors to abandon the property; or
            15.   Any other reasonable indicia of abandonment.
(Ord. 408-22, passed 9-12-22)
§ 162.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF REGISTRY.
   (A)   The Township of Voorhees shall create and maintain a registry of all
commercial and/or residential properties within its municipal boundary for
which a summons and complaint in an action to foreclose has been filed with the
New Jersey Superior Court, pursuant to its authority granted by P.L. 2021, c.
444. This registry will be formed and maintained to assist the Township with
regulating the maintenance, security, and upkeep of properties which may become
vacant and abandoned during the foreclosure process, in order to prevent the
deleterious effects of blight associated with vacant and abandoned properties
that are not maintained.
   (B)   The Township of Voorhees may, at its discretion, create, maintain and
administer this registry independently, retain the professional services of a
third party pursuant to the Local Public Contracts Law, N.J.S.A. 40A:11-1 et
seq., or participate in a Shared Services Agreement with other local units,
counties, and/or County Improvement Authorities for the creation, maintenance
and administration of the registry pursuant to the Uniform Shared Services and
Consolidation Act, N.J.S.A. 40A:65-1 et seq.
   (C)   Any third parties retained to create, maintain, and/or administer the
registry shall have the authority, on behalf of the Township to:
      (1)   Identify properties subject to the registration requirement;
      (2)   Maintain and update the registration list;
      (3)   Communicate with creditors and/or in-state representatives;
      (4)   Invoice and collect payment of fees;
      (5)   Monitor compliance; and
      (6)   Such other functions, within the scope of P.L. 2021, c. 444, which
may be deemed necessary to carry out its function on behalf of the Township.
   (D)   Any third parties retained to create, maintain, and/or administer the
registry shall be required to comply with the following reporting and payment
requirements:
      (1)   Any and all amounts collected by the third party as part of its
administration of the Township's registry, including registration fees,
interest, and penalties, shall be paid, in full, directly to the Township or
Camden County, and/or Camden County Improvement Authority as applicable, not
less than once per year, or as otherwise directed by the Township. No fees,
payments, expenses, or other deductions shall be made from this payment;
payment for any third party's services under this chapter shall be made by the
Township or, as applicable, the County/County Improvement Authority, directly
to the third party, under the terms and conditions outlined within the contract
for professional services.
      (2)   Not less than once per year on the first business day of each
calendar year, or as otherwise may be requested by the Tax Collector, any third
party administering the Township's registry shall file with the Tax Collector a
certification identifying:
         (a)   The address, block, lot and contact information of any property
for which registration fees under this chapter are due and owing at the time of
the certification;
         (b)   The amount of the registration fees, and separately, any
interest, fines, and other penalties due and owing at the time of the
certification; and
         (c)   The date on which the property became eligible for inclusion on
the Township's registry.
   (E)   The Township's Clerk or his or her designee shall serve as the
municipal official responsible for notifying creditors, establishing and
maintaining the registry, determining eligibility for designation as a vacant
and abandoned property under this chapter, and for imposing fees, penalties,
and/or violations. The responsibilities herein may be designated to a third
party, pursuant to the terms and conditions of a contract for professional
services consistent with P.L. 2021, c. 444.
(Ord. 408-22, passed 9-12-22)
§ 162.04 REGISTRATION, NOTICE, AND OTHER CREDITOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter, any creditor who
has initiated a summons and complaint with the New Jersey Superior Court in an
action to foreclose on a commercial and/or residential mortgage for a property
located within the Township: (i) prior to the effective date of this chapter,
and (ii) which is pending as of the effective date of this chapter, shall
provide notice in accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Within 10 days of filing a summons and complaint with the New Jersey
Superior Court in an action to foreclose on a commercial and/or residential
mortgage for a property located with the Township, the creditor shall notify
the Township Clerk, or his or her designee, of the action. Such notice shall
include:
      (1)   The address, block, and lot of the subject property.
      (2)   The date the summons and complaint in an action to foreclose on a
mortgage was filed against the subject property, the court in which it was
filed, and the docket number of the filing.
      (3)   Whether the property is vacant and abandoned in accordance with the
definition in this chapter.
      (4)   The full name, address and telephone number for the representative
of the creditor who is responsible for receiving notice of complaints of
property maintenance and code violations.
      (5)   The full name, address, and telephone number of any person or
entity retained by the creditor or a representative of the creditor to be
responsible for any care, maintenance, security, or upkeep of the property; and
      (6)   If the creditor is out-of-state, the full name, address, and
telephone number of an in-state representative or agent who shall be
responsible for any care, maintenance, security or upkeep of the property, and
for receiving notice complaints of property maintenance and code violations.
      (7)   The notice requirements herein represent a continuing obligation
through the pendency of this foreclosure action. After initial notice to the
Township, creditors subject to the notice requirement shall update the
Township's property registration program within ten days of any change in the
information contained in the original or any subsequent notices.
   (C)   Creditors of any commercial and/or residential mortgage required to
notify the Township pursuant to this section shall:
      (1)   Register the property with the Township's property registration
program as a property in foreclosure, within 30 days of notifying the Township.
      (2)   Be subject to the registration fee, notice requirements and
penalties for non-compliance established within this chapter.
      (3)   Update the property registration within ten days of any chance in
the information contained in the original notice to the Township.
      (4)   If an out-of-state creditor, appoint an in-state representative or
agent to act for the foreclosing creditor, whose contact information shall be
contained within the initial notice to the Township.
      (5)   Within ten days of the property becoming vacant and abandoned at
any time during the pendency of the foreclosure action, the creditor shall:
         (a)   Assume responsibility for the care, maintenance, upkeep and
security of the exterior of the property.
         (b)   Secure the property against unauthorized entry.
         (c)   Post a sign on the inside of the property, visible to the
public, containing the name, address, and telephone number of the creditor, or
an out-of-state creditor's in-state representative or agent, for the purpose of
receiving service of process.
         (d)   Acquire and maintain a vacancy insurance policy which covers any
damage to any person, or any property caused by any physical condition of the
property while registered with the Township's property registration program.
         (e)   Provide proof, within ten days of receiving a request by the
Township or its designee, that the above conditions have been satisfied.
         (f)   Cure any violations of the above requirements within 30 days of
receiving a notice of violation, or if deemed to present an imminent threat to
public health and safety, within ten days of receiving such notice.
      (6)   Update the property registration within ten days of the creditor
becoming aware that the property is deemed vacant and abandoned as defined
herein.
      (7)   Each individual property on the Registry that has been registered
for six months or more prior to the effective date shall have 30 days to renew
the registration and pay the non-refundable annual registration fee. Properties
registered less than six months prior to the effective date shall renew the
registration every 12 months from the expiration of the original registration
renewal date and shall pay the non- refundable annual registration fee.
   (D)   If at any time the creditor is deemed to be in violation of the above
requirements, and/or if the property is deemed to be in violation of any other
applicable local or state maintenance, health or safety codes, the Code
Official or his or her designee shall notify the creditor using the contact
information provided in the property registry established by this chapter.
(Ord. 408-22, passed 9-12-22)
§ 162.05 FEES, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All fees, penalties, and/or fines established within this chapter and
assessable pursuant to the Township's authority outlined within P.L. 2021, c.
444 shall be deemed a municipal charge in accordance with N.J.S.A. 54:5-1 et
seq.
   (B)   Creditors required to notify the Township and register a property as
one in foreclosure shall be required to pay the following annual registration
fee, per property, due at the time of registration of $500.
   (C)   If a property registered with the Township's registration program as a
property in foreclosure is vacant and abandoned at the time of registration, or
becomes vacant and abandoned at any time during the pendency of the foreclosure
proceeding, the creditor shall pay an additional annual registration fee, per
property, due at the time the determination that the property is vacant and
abandoned is made, of $2,000.
   (D)   If the foreclosing or foreclosed property is not registered, or the
registration fee is not paid within 30 days of when the registration or renewal
is required pursuant to this section, a late fee equivalent to 10% of the
annual registration fee shall be charged for every 30-day period, or portion
thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and payable with the
registration.
   (E)   Violations.
      (1)   An out-of-state creditor subject to the notice and registration
requirements of this chapter, found to be in violation of the requirement to
appoint an in-state representative or agent, shall be subject to a fine of
$2,500 for each day of the violation. The violation shall be deemed to commence
on the day after the creditor's initial ten or 30-day requirement to notify the
Township of applicable foreclosure actions.
      (2)   A creditor subject to the notice and registration requirements of
this chapter found to be in violation of any part of this chapter (with the
exception of a violation pursuant to division (E)(1) of this section, shall be
subject to a fine of $1,500 for each day of the violation. The violation shall
be deemed to commence on the thirty-first day following the creditor's receipt
of a notice of violation, or if deemed to present an imminent threat to public
health and safety, on the eleventh day following the creditor's receipt of such
notice.
   (F)   If the Township expends public funds in order to abate a nuisance or
correct a violation on a commercial property in situations in which the
creditor was given notice pursuant to this chapter, but failed to abate the
nuisance or correct the violation as directed, the Township shall have the same
resource against the creditor as it would have against the title owner of the
property, including but not limited to the recourse provided under N.J.S.A. 55:
19-100, et seq.
(Ord. 408-22, passed 9-12-22)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   STREET NAME CHANGES
         
II.   VACATIONS
         
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
         
V.   TAX ABATEMENTS
         
VI.   REDEVELOPMENT PLANS
         
VII.   FAIR SHARE SEWER CONTRIBUTIONS
TABLE I: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
383-1987  12-30-87    Changing Molly Oak Court to Hidden Acres Drive
426-1988  11-28-88    Changing Rolling Tree Court to Treebark Terrace
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Ashbrook Court (within the Three Pond
                      Condominiums) to Ashriver Court
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Chestnut Avenue to American Way (from Preston
                      Avenue to the PATCO high speed line)
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Cooper Court (within the Three Pond
                      Condominiums) to Corbridge Court
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Essex Drive (from Kirkbride Road to Abbey Road)
                      to Spring Drive
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Glen Court (within the Three Pond Condominiums)
                      to Golden Pond Court
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Spruce Street (from Preston Avenue to the PATCO
                      high speed line) to Park Drive
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Stevens Lane (from Hazel Lane extending into the
                      cul-de-sac) to Old Stevens Lane
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Cambridge Drive (in the Staffordshire section of
                      the township) to Westminster Drive
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Fourth Street (from Sycamore Avenue to Somerdale
                      Road) to Preston Avenue
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Fourth Street from (Lippard Avenue to Jefferson
                      Avenue) to Good Intent Road
730-1995  5-8-95      Changing Mercer Avenue (from Atlantic Avenue to Warren
                      Avenue) to Morris Avenue
885-98  8-10-98     Changing Atlantic Avenue (from Osage Avunue to Poplar
                      Avenue) to Rail Road
883-98    8-10-98     Changing Cedar Avenue (from Terrace Boulevard to ITS
                      Terminus) to Whipsering Pine Lane
                      Changing the name of Oak Avenue (located off of Burnt
240-13    11-25-13    Mill Road in the Kirkwood Section of the Township) to Ash
                      Avenue
                      Naming a portion of the unnamed access road at the Virtua
293-16    12-28-16    Health Medical Campus as Samaritan Way, comprised of an
                      access road at the Virtua Health Medical Campus from
                      Route 73 to Howe Boulevard
                     
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
811-97   7-14-97     Vacating portion of Good Intent Rd.
867-98   4-27-98     Vacating Mayberry Ave.
868-98   4-27-98     Vacating Paradise Ave.
911-99   3-8-99      Vacating a portion of Oak Ridge Court.
912-99   3-8-99      Vacating a portion of Tanbark Court.
949-99   9-13-99     Vacating Glenwood Avenue.
19-02    10-28-02    Vacating a portion of Second Street.
21-02    11-25-02    Vacating a portion of Sixth Avenue.
36-03    11-10-03    Vacating a portion of Lippard Avenue.
37-03    11-10-03    Vacating a portion of Sandy Lane.
40-04    1-26-04     Vacating a portion of Rockingham Drive.
60-05    3-7-05      Vacating a portion of Sussex Avenue.
75-05    12-29-05    Vacating a portion of Elm Avenue.
94-06    12-11-06    Vacating a portion of Seventh Avenue.
101-07   4-10-07     Vacating a portion of Lotus Avenue.
108-07   6-25-07     Vacating a portion of Elm Lane.
134-08   8-11-08     Vacating a portion of Fifth Avenue.
139-08   12-8-08     Vacating a portion of Locust Avenue.
151-09   9-8-09      Vacating a portion of Eighth Avenue.
162-10   5-24-10     Vacating Cedar Lake Drive.
175-10   12-13-10    Vacating a portion of Boundary Lane.
196-11   9-12-11     Vacating a portion of Comp Lane.
200-11   12-28-11    Vacating a portion of Paul Street.
292-16   12-12-16    Vacating a portion of Haddon Avenue.
302-17   5-8-17      Vacating a portion of West End Avenue.
324-18   5-29-18     Vacating a 10-foot sewer and drainage easement on Eighth
                     and Ninth Avenues.
332-18   9-17-18     Vacating a portion of Laurel Road.
338-18   12-10-18    Vacating a portion of Third Street.
392-21   12-13-21    Vacating a portion of Eleventh Avenue.
393-21   12-13-21    Vacating a portion of Twelfth Avenue.
422-23   3-27-23     Vacating a portion of Third Street.
424-23   4-11-23     Vacating a portion of Chasemoor Drive.
427-23   4-24-23     Vacating a portion of Antietam Road.
428-23   5-8-23      Vacating a portion of Crofton Court.
456-24   7-8-24      Vacating a portion of property bordering Chippenhan Drive
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
20-   12-22- One parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1975  75
8-    5-24-  One parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1976  76
33-   5-9-77 One parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1977
35-   5-9-77 One parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to RD-2 Zone
1977
42-   12-12- Kestrel Drive Subdivision changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A
1977  77     Residence Zone
45-   12-27- Section of Kirkwood changed from O-2 Office Zone to R.R. Rural
1977  77     Zone
56-   3-27-  Parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1978  78
57-   3-27-  Parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1978  78
65-   8-14-  One parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1978  78
67-   8-14-  One parcel changed from C.R. Commercial Recreation Zone to R.R.
1978  78     Rural Zone
68-   8-14-  One parcel changed from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
1978  78
90-   5-29-  Property located on Old Berlin - Milford Road changed from S.C.
1979  79     Shopping Center Zone to R.R. Rural Zone
98-   7-9-79 Property located on Old Berlin - Milford Road changed from C.R.
1979         Commercial Recreation Zone to R.R. Rural Zone
104-  8-13-  Property located on Old Berlin - Milford Road changed from R.R.
1979  79     Zone to R-100A Zone
105-  8-13-  Property located on Cooper Road changed from R.R. Zone to R-100A
1979  79     Zone
113-  12-10- Property located on N.J.S.H. Route 73 changed from R.R. Rural Zone
1979  79     to H.B. Highway Business Zone
114-  12-10- Properties located on Cooper Road changed from I. Industrial Zone
1979  79     to R.R. Rural Zone
115-  12-26- Property located on Haddonfield-Berlin Road changed from O-
1979  79     2 Office Zone to H.B. Highway Business Zone
116-  12-26- Property located on Haddonfield-Berlin Road changed from R.R.
1979  79     Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
125-  3-10-  Property known as Block 206, Lots 13 and P/O 6, changed from R.R.
1980  80     Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
128-  4-28-  Property known as Block 218, P/O Lot 6, changed from R.R. Rural
1980  80     Zone to G.B. General Business Zone
131-  7-28-  Property known as Block 206, Lot 13, changed from R.R. Rural Zone
1980  80     to R-100A Residence Zone
132-  8-11-  Property located on Signal Hill Drive changed from I. Industrial
1980  80     Zone to M.F. Municipal Facilities Zone
133-  9-8-80 One parcel changed from I Industrial Zone to R.R. Rural Zone
1980
134-  9-8-80 One parcel changed from I. Industrial Zone to H.B. Highway
1980         Business Zone
146-  12-22- Property known as Blocks 256, 257, 258, 252, 260 and 261 from I.
1980  80     Industrial Zone to R.R. Rural Zone
148-  2-9-81 Property known as Block 206, Lots 13 and P/O 6, changed from R.R.
1981         Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
156-  8-10-  Property known as Block 120, Lots 1 and 2, from M.F. Municipal
1981  81     Facilities Zone to R.R. Rural Zone
185-  11-22- Property known as Block 206, Lot 8, changed from R.R. Rural Zone
1982  82     to R-100A Residence Zone
             Creation of R.H.B. Restricted Highway Business Zone; property
199-  6-13-  known as lots 4B, 6, 7, 8 and P/O 4 and 5, Block 272, changed from
1983  83     R.R. Rural Zone and H.B. Highway Business Zone to R.H.B.
             Restricted Highway Business Zone
200-  6-13-  Property known as Block 272, P/O Lots 4 and 5, Plate 37, changed
1983  83     from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
215-  2-13-  Property known as Block 202, Lot 1, changed from R.R. Rural Zone
1984  84     to 0-1 Office Zone
216-  2-13-  Property known as Block 202, Lot 1.3, changed from R.R. Rural Zone
1984  84     to O-1 Office Zone
217-  2-13-  Property known as Block 202, Lot 1.3, changed from R.R. Rural Zone
1984  84     to R-100A Residence Zone
218-  3-12-  Property known as Plate 20, Block 202, Lot 6, Cooper Road from
1984  84     R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
229-  6-25-  Property known as Block 102, Lot 1, from O-1 Office Zone to N.B.
1984  84     Neighborhood Business District
262-  2-25-  Property known as Block 304, Lots 5, 12 and 20, and Block 305,
1985  85     Lots 13 and 14, from M.F. Municipal Facilities Zone to R-100A
             Residence 100A Zone
274-  5-28-  Property known as Block 272, Lots 1, 2 and 3, from R.R. Rural Zone
1985  85     to R-100A Residence Zone
             Property known as Block 218, Lot 1, from R-100A Residence Zone to
             R-75 Residence Zone; Block 207, Lots 1, 2, 5 and 14 and parts of
279-  7-8-85 Lots 3 and 15, from R-100A Residence Zone to O-2 Office Zone;
1985         Block 207, Lot 4, Block 213, Lot 10, and a portion of Block 207,
             Lot 3, from R-100A Residence Zone to GB-2 General Business-Planned
             Development Zone
280-  7-8-85 Property known as Block 199, Lot 2, from R.R. Rural Zone to O-
1985         1 Office Zone
293-  11-12- Property known as Block 248, Lots 1.1 and 1.2, from R.R. Rural
1985  85     Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
             Property known as Block 209, Lot 1, Block 210, Lots 1 and 2, Block
295-  11-25- 211, Lot 1, Block 212, Lots 1 and 2, Block 213, Lots 12, 12.1 and
1985  85     22, Block 214, Lot 1, Block 215, Lot 1, Block 216, Lot 1, and
             Block 217, Lot 1, from C.R. Commercial Recreation Zone to R-100B
             Residence Zone
296-  11-25- Property known as Block 199, part of Lot 4, from R-100A Residence
1985  85     Zone to O-1 Office Zone
297-  11-25- Property known as Block 226, part of Lot 22, and Block 230.15,
1985  85     Lots 22.2, 22.3 and 22.4, from I. Industrial Zone to R-100A
             Residence Zone
301-  12-23- Property known as Block 304, Lot 7, from M.F. Municipal Facilities
1985  85     Zone to I. Industrial Zone
303-  12-23- Property known as a portion of Block 206, Lot 6, from I.
1985  85     Industrial Zone to R-100A Residence Zone
319-  4-14-  Property known as that portion of Lot 9, Block 220, to be zoned O-
1986  86     1 Office Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 17, Block 229.01 to be zoned
             O-1 Office Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 1, Block 229.01, to be zoned
             O-1 Office Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 17, Block 229.01, to be
             zoned R.R. Rural Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 1, Block 229.01, to be zoned
             R.R. Rural Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 9, Block 252, to be zoned O-
             2 Office Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 9, Block 252, to be zoned R-
             100A Residence Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 4, Block 272, to be zoned
             R.H.B. Restricted Highway Business Zone
           Property known as that portion of Lot 5, Block 272, to be zoned
             R.H.B. Restricted Highway Business Zone
332-  7-28-  Property known as Block 199, part of Lot 7; Block 200, Lots 1, 2,
1986  86     17 and 18, from C.R. Commercial Recreation Zone to O-3 Office Zone
             III
             Property known as Block 151, Lots 1, 2 and 3; Block 152, Lots 1
             through 6; Block 153, Lots 1 through 5; Block 154, Lot 1; Block
             155, Lot 1; Block 156, Lot 1; Block 157, Lots 1 through 5; Block
             158, Lot 1; Block 159, Lot 1; Block 160, Lots 1.1,
336-  9-22-  1.2,
1986  86     1.3, 1.4 and 1.5; Block 167, Lots 1, 1.1 and 2; Block 169, Lots 1
             and 1.1; Block 170, Lots 1 through 7; Block 171, Lots 1 through 7;
             Block 172, Lot 1; Block 173, 1 and 2; Block 174, Lots 1 through 3;
             Block 175, Lot 1; Block 176, Lot 1; Block 198, Lots 5 through 10,
             10.01, 10.02, 10.03, 10.04, 11 and P/O 13, to be zoned O-3 Office
             Zone III
338-  9-22-  Property known as Block 227, Lot 6, from R.R. Rural Zone to R-100A
1986  86     Residence Zone
425-  11-14- Property known as Block 201, Lot 1, from O-3 Office 3 Zone to H.B.
1988  88     Highway Business Zone
             Property known as Block 202.27, Lots 8, 9, 10 and 11; Block 206,
458-  7-10-  Lots 7.01, 7.02 and 7.03; Block 207, Lots 7, 7.1, 9, 10, 11, 12
1989  89     and 28; Block 207.27, Lots 8, 9, 10 and 11; Block 213, Lots 1,
             1.01, 2, 2.01, 3, 3.01 and 4, from I.Z. Industrial Zone to O-
             3 Office 3 Zone
           Property known as Block 213, Lot 5, from I.Z. Industrial Zone to
             GB-2 General Business 2 Zone
           Property known as Block 213, Lots 7, 7.01>, 8 and 9, from R10
             Residence 10 Zone to GB-2 General Business 2 Zone
           Property known as Block 213, Lot 20.1, from R-10 Residence 10 Zone
             to R-100 A Residence 100 A Zone
           Property known as a point common to Block 207, Lots 8, 11 and 12,
             from GB-2 General Business 2 Zone to 0-3 Office 3 Zone
           Property known as Block 213, Lots 11 and 11A, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to GB-2 General Business 2 Zone
465-  8-14-  Property known as Block 272, Lots 5.1 and part of 5.2, from R-100
89    89     Residence 100 Zone to R.H.B. Restricted Highway Business Zone
472-  10-10- Property known as Blocks 27, 28, 32, 33, 37 and 38 and Block 41,
89    89     Lot 1.1, from R-100 Residence 100 Zone to R-75 Residence 75 Zone
475-  11-13- Property known as Blocks 27, 23, 32, 33, 37 and 38 and Block 41,
89    89     Lot 1.1, from R-100 Residence 100 Zone to R-75 Residence 75 Zone
518-  10-9-  Property known as Block 227, Lot 13, from C.R. Cluster Residential
90    90     Zone to R-100A Residence 100 A Zone
523-  12-27- Property known as Area Number One of Block 213, Lots 11 and 11.01,
90    90     from R-100 Residence 100 Zone to GB-2 General Business 2 Zone
             Property known as Area Number Three of Block 213, Lots 11 and
           11.01, from R-100 Residence 100 Zone to GB-2 General Business 2
             Zone
524-  12-27- Property known as Area Number Two of Block 213, Lots 11 and 11.01,
90    90     from GB-2 General Business 2 Zone to 100 Residence 100 Zone
531-  12-27- Property known as Block 161, Lots 1.1, 2 and 4, from R-100
90    90     Residence 100 Zone tool Office 1 Zone
           Property known as Block 180, Lots 3, 4 and 9, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to O-1 Office 1 Zone
           Property known as Block 180, part of Lot 1, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to O-1 Office 1 Zone
           Property known as Block 180, part of Lot 2, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to O-1 Office 1 Zone
           Property known as Block 180, part of Lot 7, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to O-1 Office 1 Zone
           Property known as Block 180, part of Lot 5, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to O-1 Office 1 Zone
           Property known as Block 180, part of Lot 6, from R-100 Residence
             100 Zone to O-1 Office
547-  5-13-  Property known as Lot 34, Block 139, from R.R. Rural Residence
1991  91     Zone to O-1 Office Zone
551-  5-28-  Property known as Block RR 218, Lot 6.3, from R.R. Rural Residence
1991  91     Zone to M.F. Municipal Facilities Zone
579-  11-12- Lots 51 and 52, Block 94, to M.F. Municipal Facilities Zone
1991  91
598-  5-11-  Lots 19 and 20, Block 229.01, to RR Rural Residential Zone
1992  92
618-  9-14-  Property described on Exhibit A, which is filed in the office of
1992  92     the Township Clerk, from O-2 Office 2 Zone to R-100A Residence
             100A Zone
703-  8-8-94 Property described as Block 213, Lot 1, from O-3 Office 3 Zone to
94           R-100B Residence 100B Zone
736-  6-12-  Lots 10 and 10.1, Block 200, to SH Senior Housing Zone
95    95
           Lots 47 and 48, Block 230.27, to TH Residential Townhouse Zone
           Lots 1, 3 and 5 and 8 through 12, Block 305, to R-100A Medium-
             Density Residential Zone
739-  8-14-  Lots 1 and 1.05, Block 160, to H.B. Highway Business Zone
95    95
           Lots 1.01, 1.02, 1.03 and 1.04, Block 160, to O-3 Office 3 Zone
             (TC-1)
           Lots 1 and 5, Block 153, to O-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lot 1, Block 156, to O-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lot 1, Block 159, to O-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lots 1, 5 and 6, Block 152, to 0-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lot 1, Block 155, to O-3 Office 3 Zone
           Lots 1, 1.01, 2 and 3, Block 155 to O-3 Office Zone (TC-1)
           Lots 2 and 3, Block 160, to O-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lots 5 and 7, Block 198, to 0-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lots 1, 2 and 3, Block 172.01, to O-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
           Lots 1 and 2, Block 171, to O-3 Office 3 Zone (TC-1)
752-  12-28- Lots 34, 35 and 36, Block 199.06, to O/SH Office Senior Housing
95    95     Zone
           Lots 2, 2.01, 2.02, 2.03, 8 and 17, Block 200, to O/SH Office
             Senior Housing Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, Block 252,
             to EIB Economic Industrial Business Zone
           1, 2, 3, 4, Block 255, to EIB Economic Industrial Business Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, Block 251, to EIB Economic
             Industrial Business Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 3, Block 249, to EIB Economic Industrial Business Zone
           Lot 1, Block 253, to EIB Economic Industrial Business Zone
           Lots 6, 7, 7.01, Block 300, to EIB Economic Industrial Business
             Zone
           Lots 10, 21, Block 304.01, to EIB Economic Industrial Business
             Zone
           Lot 3, Block 1000, to ELB Economic Light Business Zone
           Lots .01, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 15, and part of 13 Block 150,
             to ELB Economic Light Business Zone
           Lot 14, Block 247, to ORB Office Retail Business Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, Block 246, to ORB Office Retail
             Business Zone
           Lots 11.01, 12, 13, Block 247, to EB Economic Business Zone
           Lots 41, 44, 45, 46, 47, Block 227.01, to EB Economic Business
             Zone
           Lots 9, 9.01, Block 252, to EB Economic Business Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 2.2, 3, 4, 5, Block 228, to EB Economic Business Zone
           Lots 2, 3, 4, 4.01, Block 229, to and part of 70, to EB Economic
             Business Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17, Block
             225, to O-3 (EE-2) Office 3 Zone
           Lots 6, 8, 9, 15, Block 229, to O-3 (EE-2) Office 3 Zone
           Lot 18, Block 229.01, to O-3 (EE-2) Office 3 Zone
           Lots 1.01, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 8.01, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15.01, 13, 14,
             15, 18, 21, Block 224, to O-3 (EE-3) Office 3 Zone
           Lots 19, part of 10, 10.03, 10.02, 9, 7, 15.01, Block 200, to IZ
             (EE-4) Industrial Zone
           Lots 1, 2, 3, 2.01, Block 206, to IZ (BE-4) Industrial Zone
           Lots 33, 34, 35, 36, Block 202.23, to IZ (EE-4) Industrial Zone
           Lots 30, 31, 32, 29, Block 202.23, to O-3 (EE-4) Office 3 Zone
           Lots 7.01, 7.02, 7.03, Block 206, to O-3 (EE-4) Office 3 Zone
           Lots 6, 7, 7.01, 8, 13, 28, 28.01, 9, 10, 11, 12, Block 207, to O-
             3 (EE-4) Office 3 Zone
           Lots 1, 1.01, 2, 2.01, 3, 3.01, 4, Block 213, to O-3 (EE-4) Office
             3 Zone
760-  4-9-96 Lots 4, 6 and 7, Block 305, to R-100A
96
771-  8-12-  Lots 1 and 17, Block 229.01, to RD-2 Residence District 2 Zone
96    96
779-  12-9-  Lots 10.03 and 19, Block 200, to O/SH
96    96
           Lots 32, 33, 34, 35 and 36, Block 202.23, to CR
           Lots 4, 5, 6, 31, 32 and 33, Block 206, to CR
           Lot 4, Block 276, to HB
846-  10-27- Block 230-27, Lot 47 from TH Residential Townhouse Zone to 03
97    97     Office 3 Zone and eliminating TH Residential Townhouse Zone from
             Zone Plan
859-  2-9-98 Block 105, Lot 4 to General Business
98
955-  10-26- Block 213.04, Lots 127 and 128 from RR-Rural Residential Zone to
99    99     CP-Community Property.
             Amending zoning district boundary line for the CR-Cluster
1-    1-24-  Residential Zone applicable to Block 227, Lot 15 to run along the
2000  00     center of the Bortons Branch Stream running through the western
             portion of Lot 15.
             Block 230.27, Lot 48 and a portion of Lot 47, shall be rezoned
22-02 12-30- from 03 Office 3 Zone for inclusion in Medium Density Residential
      02     District (MDR) Zone to be used and developed in accordance with §
             152.011.
135-  8-11-  Block 27, Lots 21 and 22 to MDR Zone.
08    08
195-  8-8-11 Block 147, Lots 3 through 7 to TC Zone.
11
             Block 27, Lots 24 and 25 from OI (Office) to Special Business and
             Service Overlay District of OI (Office 1).
             Block 39, Lots 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 from OI (Office) to
             Special Business and Service Overlay District of OI (Office 1).
266-  5-11-  Block 44, Lots 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 from OI (Office) to Special
15    15     Business and Service Overlay District of OI (Office 1).
             Block 202.26, Lots 3, 3.01, 3.03, 14 and 15 from RR (Rural
             Residential) to TC-1 Overlay District within O-3 (Office 3).
             Block 220, Lot 9 from RR (Rural Residential) to MB (Major
             Business).
            
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
908-99   1-25-99     Authorizing the sale of the Ashland Fire station property
                     to Jivan L. Patel and Pashi J. Patel.
                     Authorizing grant of easement to James and Robbin Lawson
938-99   7-12-99     for retaining wall and driveway within right-of-way of
                     Tanbark Court.
                     Authorizing the sale of the old post office building on
940-99   7-26-99     White Horse Road to be converted into a new Police
                     Department facility.
941-99   8-9-99      Approving the acquisition of Winfield Place Basin.
21-00    9-11-00     Authorizing the purchase of Block 224, Part of Lot 20.
36-00    12-28-00    Approving the acquisition of the Country Lane Detention
                     Basin.
                     Authorizing the exchange of certain municipal lands being
8-02     3-11-02     Block 85, part of Lot 5 for certain adjacent lands being
                     Block 85, part of Lot 5.01.
11-02    5-28-02     Authorizing the sale of certain municipal lands being
                     Block 202.23, Lot 29.
                     Accepting various easements on a portion of Block 227, Lot
161-10   5-24-10     15; Block 227, Lot 22; Block 224, Lot 16; Block 222, Lot 8
                     and Block 222, Lot 8.04 to the Township.
181-11   2-28-11     Authorizing the acquisition of real property located at
                     Block 47, Lot 5.
198-11   11-3-11     Authorizing the acquisition of real property located at
                     Block 14, Lots 14.00 and 14.01.
215-12   9-10-12     Authorizing the acquisition of real property located at
                     Block 228, Lot 7.02.
224-12   12-26-12    Authorizing the acquisition of real property located at
                     Block 220, Lot 5.01.
290-16   11-28-16    Approving easements relative to certain properties located
                     along Somerdale Road between Burnt Mill and Eichelon Road.
                     Authorizing transfer and acceptance of properties and
300-17   4-24-17     execution of documents, including quit claim deeds to cure
                     title discrepancies and close surveying gaps, located in
                     Block 147, Lots 1, 3, 5, 6, and 7.
                     Authorizing transfer and acceptance of property and
                     execution of documents from Shurgard Storage Ctr., Inc,
301-17   4-24-17     #08103, including a quit claim deed to cure title
                     discrepancies and close surveying gaps, located in Block
                     147, Lot 6.
                     Authorizing a second amendment to the Master Deed creating
309-17   9-25-17     Voorhees Town Center Mixed Use Condominium and a quit
                     claim deed.
320-18   3-5-18      Authorizing the sale of property at 620 Haddonfield-
                     Berlin Road and execution of related documents.
344-19   4-9-19      Authorizing the sale of property at 1225 Walnut Avenue and
                     execution of related documents.
362-20   3-9-20      Authorizing a land lease for solar PV generation system at
                     the Buzby Landfill.
423-23   3-27-23     Authorizing an easement agreement with Eagle Plaza, LLC.
425-23   4-10-23     Authorizing the purchase of a tax lien for property
                     located at 3 Sheppard Road.
                    
 
TABLE V: TAX ABATEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing execution of tax abatement agreement between
966-99   12-13-99    the Township and H.C. Steenland, for premises Block 228,
                     Lot 7.
317-18   2-12-18     Authorizing five-year tax exemption and abatement
                     agreement with Rizzieri Salon, for Block 115, Lot 1.
                     Authorizing a financial agreement pursuant to the five
357-19   12-2-19     year exemption and abatement law with Brandywine
                     Acquisition and Development, LLC.
                     Authorizing execution of a financial agreement between the
358-19   12-2-19     Township and Brandywine Acquisition and Development, LLC,
                     and approving an application thereof pursuant to the long
                     term tax exemption law, N.J.S.A. 40A:20-1 et seq.
                    
 
TABLE VI: REDEVELOPMENT PLANS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Adopting a redevelopment plan for the parcels known as
86-06    5-22-06     Block 150.01, Lots 1, 2, 2.01, 3, 3.01, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
                     10 and 11.
339-19   1-28-19     Adopting a redevelopment plan for Block 150.01, Lots 1, 2,
                     5 and 5.01.
352-19   9-10-19     Adopting certain amendments to the redevelopment plan as
                     adopted by Ord. 339-19.
381-21   6-14-21     Adopting a redevelopment plan for Block 207, Lots 4, 4.08,
                     4.09 and 4.24.
407-22   9-12-22     Adopting amendments to the redevelopment plan adopted by
                     Ord. 339-19.
                    
 
TABLE VII: FAIR SHARE SEWER CONTRIBUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Implementing a requirement for a fair share contribution
                     from future development for the construction costs
160-10   5-10-10     incurred for upgrading of the Cooper Road Interceptor,
                     Dutchtown Road Pump Station and the Dutchtown Road Force
                     Main Projects.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to New Jersey Statutes
References to 1974 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEW JERSEY STATUTES
N.J.S.A. Section Code Section
N.J.S.A. Section            Code Section
2A:50-73                    161.01
2A:58-1 et seq.             94.08,
                            94.09
2A:58-10 et seq.            94.08
2B:12-1 et seq.             33.01
2B:24-1 et seq.             33.20
2B:24-2                     33.21
2C                          119.02
2C:7-2                      130.95,
                            130.96
2C:34-3                     130.75
2C:35-7                     38.05
2C:35-7.1                   38.05
4:1C-1 et seq.              154.017
4:19-15.16                  92.20,
                            92.25
4:24-39 et seq.             154.017
5:8-78 - 5:8-119            101.01
5:8-78 - 5:8-99             101.09
5:8-100 - 5:8-119           101.09
7:4-7.2(c)                  51.03
7:14A                       51.27
8:23A-2.1 - 2.5             118.01
11A-1 et seq.               35.01
13:1B-15.147 - 12:1B-15.150 154.017
13:1D-1 et seq.             34B.08
13:1E-1 et seq.             34B.08
Title 15A                   114.02
18A:18A-16                  156.014
19:25-10.1 - 19:25-10.14    150.10
26:3-1 et. seq.             32.140,
                            32.146
26:3-31                     32.147
26:3-31(c)                  119.08
26:3-32-26:3-34             32.147
26:3-35                     32.147
26:3-44                     32.146
26:3-45-26:362              32.147
26:3-64-26:3-36.5           32.148
26:3-70-26:3-82             32.148
26:8-1 et seq.              38.30,
                            38.32
30:6D-13 et seq.            150.10
Title 33                    111.31
33:1-1 et seq.              111.20
33:1-12.21                  111.30
34:13A-3                    37.01
37:1-1 et seq.              38.31
                            31.11,
Title 39                    76.02,
                            76.08,
                            76.10
Title 39, Subtitle 1        70.01,
                            70.03
39:1-1 et seq.              90.02
39:3-43 et seq.             76.03
39:4-46                     76.03
39:4-56.6                   76.08
39:4-138                    72.01
                            71.18,
                            71.22,
39:4-140 et seq.            71.24;
                            Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                            III,
                            IV
                            71.18,
                            71.19,
39:4-183.27                 71.21,
                            71.22,
                            71.23 -
                            71.33
39:4-197.5                  72.05
                            71.18,
39:4-198                    71.19,
                            71.21 -
                            71.33
39:5A-1 et seq.             154.010
39:10A-1 - 7                76.08
40:48-2.12f- l              160.01
40:48-2.4                   160.03
40:48-2.46                  72.05,
                            72.06
40:48-2.49 et seq.          76.08
40:48-2.49 - 2.50           76.08
40:48-2.50                  76.10
40:48-2.5 et seq.           160.01
40:48-2.5(f)                160.04
40:48-2.8                   160.07
40:48F-1                    34.50
                            Adopting ordinance,
40:49-4                     10.25,
                            10.37
40:49-5                     159.06
40:49-5.1                   151.01
40:52-1                     110.02
40:55-D et seq.             156.008
                            30.081,
                            150.02,
                            150.05,
                            150.10,
                            152.004,
                            152.014,
                            154.017,
                            152.093,
40:55D-1 et seq.            152.134,
                            152.135 
                            156.002,
                            156.010,
                            156.019,
                            156.021,
                            156.022,
                            156.023,
                            156.037
40:55D-1                    156.001
40:55D-10(g)(2)             156.012
40:55D-23 and 23.1          156.001
40:55D-26a                  156.002
40:55D-29 - 40:55D-31       152.154
40:55D-32                   150.10
40:55D-40.4                 154.008
40:55D-41                   156.021
40:55D-42                   150.10
                            152.003,
40:55D-43 et seq.           152.035,
                            152.095
40:55D-45 et seq.           152.03
40-55D-45.1                 152.03
40:55D-45.1a                152.03,
                            156.025
40:55D-45.1(b)              152.03
40:55D-48.1                 156.016
40:55D-48.2                 156.016
40:55D-49(d)                152.143
40:55D-51                   152.137
40:55D-52(b)                152.143
40:55D-53                   152.191,
                            154.017
40:55D-53 - 53.5            156.044
40:55D-54                   156.022
40:55D-60                   156.021
40:55D-65                   152.03
40:55D-67                   156.023
40:55D-70                   156.027
40:55D-70a,b,c              156.028
40:55D-70c                  152.137
                            156.016,
40:55D-70d                  156.021,
                            156.023
40:55-70d(5)                153.028
40:55D-76                   156.005
40:55D-1                    156.05
40:56-65 et seq.            34A.11
40:56-79                    34A.02,
                            34A.20
40:56-80                    34A.11
40:56-85                    34A.11
40:56-88                    34A.23
40:56A-1                    156.001
40:56A-1 et. seq.           32.035
40:65-12                    103.02
40A:5 et seq.               34.77
40A:5-9                     34.75
                            37.01,
40A:9-22.1 et seq.          37.03,
                            37.05
40A:9-140 et seq.           30.111
                            34.01 ,
40A11-1 et seq.             34.18,  
                            162.03
40A:12A-1 et seq.           152.137
40A:12A-3                   152.137
40A:12A-6                   34B.04,
                            34B.06
40A:12A-7                   152.137
40A:12A-8                   152.137
40A:12A-9                   152.137
40A:12A-10                  152.137
40A:12A-13                  152.137
40A:12A-22                  152.137
40A:12A-27                  152.137
40A:12A-37                  152.137
40A:12A-38                  152.137
40A:12A-39                  152.137
40A:12A-43                  152.137
40A:14-7 et seq.            31A.19
40A:14-9                    31A.15
40A:14-9.2                  31A.22
40A:14-9.4                  31A.24
40A:14-10.1a                31A.21
40A:14-12                   31A.23
40A:14-17                   31A.16
40A:14-118 et seq.          31.04
40A:14-118                  31.02
40A:14-146 et seq.          31.11
40A:14-146.14               31.11
40A:20-1 et seq.            T.S.O. V
40A:21-1 et seq.            34B.03,
                            34B.14
40A:21-3g                   34B.09
40A:21-9                    34B.06,
                            34B.07
40A:21-10                   34B.06,
                            34B.07
40A:26A-1 et seq.           51.15
40A:65-1 et seq.            162.03
45:22-2                     117.015
45:22-4                     117.065
45:22-5                     117.066
45:22-7                     117.067
45:22-8                     117.068
45:22-10                    117.069
45:22-11                    117.070
45:22-12                    117.071
45:22-13                    117.072
45:22-14                    117.073
45:22-15                    117.074
45:22-16                    117.074
45:22-17                    117.074
45:22-19                    117.074
45:22-22                    117.074
45:22-24                    117.074
45:22-25                    117.075
45:22-26                    117.075
45:22-31                    117.050
45:22-33                    117.076
45:22-34                    117.085
45:22-35                    117.087
45:22-36                    117.088
45:22-38                    117.086
45:22-39                    117.999
45:24-1 et seq.             114.05
45:24-5                     114.05
45:24-6                     114.05
45:24-9                     114.03
45:24-10                    114.03
46:8B-8                     156.037
46:8D-5                     156.037
46:10B-51                   161.02
                            156.019,
46:23-9.9 et seq.           156.022.
                            156.030
51:5-1 et seq.              115.02,
                            115.06
51:6-1 et seq.              115.02,
                            115.06
51:6-1                      115.02
51:6A-1 et seq.             115.02
51:6A-1                     117.052
51:6A-5                     115.02
52:27BB-26 et seq.          30.112
52:27D-20.1                 34.18
52:27D-119 et seq.          30.065,
                            30.081
52:27D-192 et seq.          94.08
52:27D-202                  94.01
52:27D-206                  94.06
52:27D-208                  94.06
52:27D-301 et seq.          153.028
52:27D-330                  150.10
Title 54                    34A.11
54:4-3.30 et seq.           38.70
54:4-3.31                   38.71
54:4-3.32                   38.71
54:4-8:40 et seq.           36.06
54:4-23.1 et seq.           152.002
54:5-1 et seq.              162.05
54:32B-3                    34.50
54:32B-8.2                  114.05
54:32B-9                    34.50
54:32B-15                   114.05
55:19-69                    154.017
55:19-100 et seq.           162.05
58:10-23.11 et seq.         34B.08
58:10A-1 et seq.            34B.08
58:16A-55.5                 154.017
59:8-6 et seq.              38.60
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1974 CODE
1974 Code Section 1998 Code Section
1974 Code Section 1998 Code Section
1-14              10.37
3-1               30.001
3-2               30.002
3-3               30.003
3-4               30.004
3-5               30.005
3-6               30.006
4-1               30.020
4-2               30.021
4A-1              30.050
4A-2              30.051
4A-3              30.052
4A-4              30.053
4A-5              30.054
4B-1              30.065
4B-2              30.066
4B-4              30.067
4C-1              30.080
4C-2              30.081
6-1               34.01
6-2               34.02
6-3               34.03
6-4               34.04
6-5               34.05
6A-1              30.035,
                  30.037
6A-2              30.036
6A-4              30.038
6C-1              38.01
6C-2              38.02
6C-3              38.03
6C-4              38.04
6C-5              38.05
7-1               30.095
7-2               30.096
9-1               37.01
9-2               37.02
9-4               37.04
9-5               37.05
9-11              37.06
10-1              30.110
10-2              30.111
10-3              30.112
12-1              32.002
12-2              32.003
12-3              32.001
15-1              34.15
15-2              34.16
15-3              34.17
16-1              35.02
16-14             35.03
16-15             35.04
16-15.1           35.05
20-1              33.20
20-2              33.21,
                  33.22
20-3              33.23
21-1              32.115
21-2              32.116
21-3              32.117
21-4              32.118
21-5              32.119
Ch. 23            35.06
36-1              111.20
36-4              111.22
36-5              111.23
36-6              111.01
36-7              111.24,
                  111.25
36-8              111.02
36-9              111.03
36-18             111.99
36-19             111.40
36-22             111.41
36-23             111.99
43-1              91.01
43-2              91.02
43-3              91.03
43-4              91.04
43-5              91.05
43-6              91.05
43-7              91.05
43-8              91.99
47-1              98.35
47-2              98.36
47-3              98.37
47-4              98.38
47-5              98.39
47-6              98.40
47-7              98.99
50-1              116.02
50-2              116.03
50-3              116.04
50-4              116.05
50-5              116.05
50-6              116.06
50-7              116.01
50-8              116.07
50-9              116.08,
                  116.99
53-1              130.25
53-2              130.26
53-3              130.27
54-1              92.01
54-2              92.02
54-3              92.03
54-4              92.04
54-5              92.05
54-6              92.06
54-7              92.07,
                  92.08
54-9              92.09
54-10             92.50,
                  92.99
54-11             92.20
54-12             92.21
54-13             92.22
54-14             92.23
54-15             92.24
54-16             92.25
54-17             92.26
54-18             92.27
54-19             92.28
54-20             92.29
54-21             92.50,
                  92.99
54-22             92.51
61-1              36.02
61-3              36.03
61-7              36.04
61-8              36.05
62A-1             130.40
62A-2             130.41
62A-3             130.42
62A-4             130.99
69-1              112.01
69-2              112.02
69-3              112.03
69-4              112.04
69-5              112.05
69-6              112.06
69-7              112.07
69-8              112.08
69-9              112.09
69-10             112.10
69-11             112.11
69-12             112.12
70-1              50.01
70-2              50.02
70-3              50.03
70-4              50.04
70-5              50.04
70-6              50.05
70-8              50.07
70-9              50.09
70-10             50.99
74-1              113.01
74-16             113.02
89-1              95.01
89-2              95.02
89-3              95.03
89-4              95.30
89-5              95.31
89-6              95.31
89-7              95.31
89-8              95.34
89-9              95.35
89-10             95.15
89-11             95.16
89-12             95.04
89-13             95.32
89-14             95.33
89-15             95.17
89-16             95.17
89-17             95.18
89-18             95.18
89-19             95.19
89-20             95.19
89-21             95.19
89-22             95.99
89-23             95.36
95-1              96.01
95-2              96.02
95-3              96.03
95-4              96.05
95-5              96.04
95A-1             97.01
95A-2A            97.20
95A-2A.(1)        97.21
95A-2A.(7)        97.22
95A-2A.(9)        97.23
95A-2A.(11)       97.24
95A-2A.(14)       97.25
95A-2A.(16)       97.26
95A-2A.(19)       97.27
95A-2A.(22)       97.28
95A-2A.(24)       97.29
95A-2A.(28)       97.30
95A-2A.(29)       97.31
95A-2A.(30)       97.32
95A-2A.(32)       97.33
95A-2A.(34)       97.34
95A-3             97.02
95A-4             97.03
95A-5             97.06
95A-6             97.99
95A-7             97.04
95A-9             97.05
96-2              115.02
96-11             115.06
96-12             115.08
97-1              50.45
97-2              50.46
97-3              50.47
97-4              50.48
97-5              50.49
97-6              50.50
97-7              50.51
97-8              50.52
97-9              50.53
97-10             50.54
97-11             50.99
97-12             50.55
100-13            51.01
100-15            51.02
100-16            51.02
100-17            51.02
108-1             98.15
108-2             98.16
108-3             98.17
108-4             98.18
108-5             98.18
108-6             98.19
108-7             98.20
108-8             98.21
108-9             98.22
108-13            98.01
108-14            98.01
122-1             70.01
122-2             70.02
122-4             70.99
122-5             72.01
122-6             Ch. 75, Sch. I
122-7             Ch. 75, Sch. II
122-8             Ch. 75, Sch. III
122-9.1           72.02
122-9.2           72.03
122-10            Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
122-10.1          71.01
122-11            Ch. 74, Sch. I
122-12            Ch. 74, Sch. II
122-13            Ch. 74, Sch. III
122-14            Ch. 74, Sch. IV
122-19            Ch. 74, Sch. V
122-20            Ch. 74, Sch. VI
122-21            Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
122-22            72.04
122-23            72.04
122-24            72.04
122-25            72.04
122-26            Ch. 74, Sch. IX
122-27            Ch. 74, Sch. IX
122-28            Ch. 74, Sch. X
122-29            70.03
122-30            Ch. 74, Sch. XI
122-30.1          72.05
122-30.2          72.05
122-30.3          72.05
122-30.4          72.05
122-30.5          72.99
122-30.5.1        72.05,
                  72.99
122-30.6          72.06
122-30.7          72.06
122-30.8          72.06
122-30.9          72.06
122-30.10         72.06
122-30.11         72.06
122-30.12         72.99
122-30.13         71.10
122-30.14         71.10
122-30.15         71.10
122-30.16         71.10
122-30.17         71.10
122-30.18         71.10
122-30.19         71.10
122-30.20         71.10
122-30.21         71.10
122-30.22         71.10
122-30.24         71.11
122-30.25         71.11
122-30.26         71.11
122-30.27         71.11
122-30.28         71.11
122-30.29         71.11
122-30.30         71.11
122-30.31         71.11
122-30.32         71.11
122-30.33         71.11
122-30.35         71.12
122-30.36         71.12
122-30.37         71.12
122-30.38         71.12
122-30.39         71.12
122-30.40         71.12
122-30.41         71.12
122-30.42         71.12
122-30.43         71.12
122-30.44         71.12
122-30.46         71.13
122-30.47         71.13
122-30.48         71.13
122-30.49         71.13
122-30.50         71.13
122-30.51         71.13
122-30.52         71.13
122-30.53         71.13
122-30.54         71.13
122-30.55         71.13
122-30.57         71.14
122-30.58         71.14
122-30.59         71.14
122-30.60         71.14
122-30.61         71.14
122-30.62         71.14
122-30.63         71.14
122-30.64         71.14
122-30.65         71.14
122-30.66         71.14
122-30.68         71.15
122-30.69         71.15
122-30.70         71.15
122-30.71         71.15
122-30.72         71.15
122-30.74         71.16
122-30.75         71.16
122-30.76         71.16
122-30.77         71.16
122-30.78         71.16
122-30.79         71.16
122-30.80         71.16
122-30.81         71.16
122-30.82         71.16
122-30.83         71.16
122-30.84         71.16
122-30.86         70.04
122-30.87         70.04
122-30.88         70.99
122-30.89         70.04
122-30.90         70.05
122-30.91         70.05
122-30.92         70.05
122-30.93         70.05
122-30.94         70.05
122-30.95         70.05
122-30.96         70.05
122-30.97         70.99
122-30.98         71.17
122-30.99         71.17
122-30.100        71.17
122-30.101        71.17
122-30.102        71.17
122-30.103        71.17
122-30.105        71.18
122-30.106        71.18
122-30.107        71.18
122-30.108        71.18
122-30.109        71.18
122-30.110        71.18
122-30.111        71.18
122-30.112        71.18
122-30.113        71.18
122-30.114        71.18
122-30.115        71.19
122-30.116        71.19
122-30.117        71.19
122-30.118        71.19
122-30.119        71.19
122-30.120        71.19
122-30.122        71.20
122-30.123        71.20
122-30.124        71.20
122-30.125        71.20
122-30.126        71.20
122-30.128        71.21
122-30.129        71.21
122-30.130        71.21
122-30.131        71.21
122-30.132        71.21
122-30.134        71.23
122-30.135        71.23
122-30.136        71.23
122-30.137        71.23
122-30.138        71.23
122-30.139        71.23
122-30.140        71.23
122-30.141        71.23
122-30.142        71.23
122-30.143        71.23
122-30.144        71.23
122-30.145        71.23
122-30.147        71.24
122-30.148        71.24
122-30.149        71.24
122-30.150        71.24
122-30.151        71.24
122-30.152        71.24
122-30.153        71.24
122-30.154        71.24
122-30.156        71.22
122-30.157        71.22
122-30.158        71.22
122-30.159        71.22
122-30.160        71.22
122-30.161        71.22
122-30.163        72.07
122-30.164        72.07
122-30.165        72.99
122-30.166        71.25
122-30.167        71.25
122-30.169        71.25
122-30.170        71.25
122-30.171        71.25
122-30.172        71.25
122-30.173        71.25
122-31            Ch. 75, Sch. I
122-32            Ch. 75, Sch. II
122-33            Ch. 75, Sch. III
122-35            Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
122-36            Ch. 74, Sch. I
122-37            Ch. 74, Sch. II
122-38            Ch. 74, Sch. III
122-39            Ch. 74, Sch. IV
122-44            Ch. 74, Sch. V
122-45            Ch. 74, Sch. VI
122-46            Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
122-48            Ch. 74, Sch. IX
122-49            Ch. 74, Sch. X
122-50            Ch. 74, Sch. XI
122-51            Ch. 75, Sch. IV
122-52            Ch. 74, Sch. XII
122-53            Ch. 74, Sch. VII
122-54            Ch. 75, Sch. V
123-1             90.01
123-2             90.02
123-3             90.03
123-4             90.04
123-5             90.05
123-6             90.06
123-7             90.08
123-8             90.09
123-9             90.10
123-10            90.11
123-11            90.07
123-12            90.12
123-13            90.99
123-14            90.13
123A-1            99.01
123A-2            99.02
123A-3            99.03
123A-4            99.03
123A-5            99.04
123A-6            99.99
124-1             73.01
124-2             73.02
124-3             73.03
124-4             73.04
124-5             73.05
124-6             73.06
124-7             73.07
124-8             73.99
126-1             38.30
126-2             38.31
126-3             38.32
128-5             52.01
128-6             52.02
128-7             52.03
128-8             52.04
128-9             52.99
131-72            153.001
131-75            153.002
131-76            153.004
131-77            153.005
131-78            153.006
131-79            153.007
131-80            153.008
131-81            153.009
131-82            153.010
131-83            153.011
131-84            153.012
131-85            153.013
131-86            153.014
131-87            153.015
131-88            153.016
131-89            153.017
131-90            153.018
131-91            153.019
131-92            153.020
131-93            153.021
131-94            153.022
131-95            153.023
131-96            153.024
131-97            153.025
131-98            153.026
131-99            153.027
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Ch. 74, Schs. II,
                     III,
­       - -         VI,
                     VII;
                     Ch. 75, Schs. I,
                     III
                     50.01 -
                     50.05,
­       - -         50.07 -
                     50.09,
                     50.99
                     111.01 -
                     111.03,
­       5-1-46      111.20,
                     111.22 -
                     111.25,
                     111.99
                     91.01 -
                     91.05,
                     91.99,
­       8-1-51      98.15 -
                     98.18,
                     98.20,
                     98.22
­       11-11-59    113.01
­       9-12-62     111.02
­       4-8-65      111.02
­       4-28-66     98.16 -
                     98.18
­       1-12-67     34.15 -
                     34.17
­       12-28-67    98.18,
                     98.19
                     73.01 -
1971-18  12-14-71    73.07,
                     73.99
­       1-23-73     30.001 -
                     30.006
15-1973  7-24-73     30.050 -
                     30.054
                     10.37,
                     50.99,
                     98.18,
19-1974  12-30-74    98.21,
                     111.03,
                     111.22,
                     111.99
8-1975   5-27-75     30.095,
                     30.096
9-1975   6-9-75      30.020,
                     30.021
15-1975  8-11-75     153.001 -
                     153.027
20-1975  12-22-75    T.S.O. III
3-1976   4-12-76     50.99
                     111.40,
4-1976   4-26-76     111.41,
                     111.99
8-1976   5-24-76     T.S.O. III
12-1976  8-9-76      30.054
16-1976  11-22-76    30.065 -
                     30.067
                     70.01 -
                     70.03,
                     70.99,
28-1977  3-14-77     72.01,
                     72.04;
                      Ch. 74, Sch. XIII;
                     Ch. 75, Schs. I -
                     III
33-1977  5-9-77      T.S.O. III
35-1977  5-9-77      T.S.O. III
42-1977  12-12-77    T.S.O. III
45-1977  12-27-77    T.S.O. III
46-1977  12-27-77    34.01 -
                     34.05
56-1978  3-27-78     T.S.O. III
57-1978  3-27-78     T.S.O. III
60-1978  4-24-78     Ch. 75, Sch. II
64-1978  6-26-78     30.003,
                     30.005
65-1978  8-14-78     T.S.O. III
67-1978  8-14-78     T.S.O. III
68-1978  8-14-78     T.S.O. III
90-1979  5-29-79     T.S.O. III
92-1979  5-29-79     96.01 -
                     96.05
98-1979  7-9-79      T.S.O. III
104-1979 8-13-79     T.S.O. III
105-1979 8-13-79     T.S.O. III
106-1979 8-13-79     Ch. 75, Sch. I
108-1979 10-9-79     Ch. 74, Sch. X
110-1979 11-12-79    Ch. 75, Sch. III
113-1979 12-10-79    T.S.O. III
114-1979 12-10-79    T.S.O. III
115-1979 12-26-79    T.S.O. III
116-1979 12-26-79    T.S.O. III
119-1980 2-11-80     Ch. 75, Sch. III
120-1980 2-11-80     Ch. 74, Sch. X
125-1980 3-10-80     T.S.O. III
128-1980 4-28-80     T.S.O. III
131-1980 7-28-80     T.S.O. III
132-1980 8-11-80     T.S.O. III
133-1980 9-8-80      T.S.O. III
134-1980 9-8-80      T.S.O. III
146-1980 12-22-80    T.S.O. III
148-1981 2-9-81      T.S.O. III
149-1981 3-9-81      35.02 -
                     35.04
150-1981 3-9-81      30.035 -
                     30.038
156-1981 8-10-81     T.S.O. III
160-1981 9-28-81     Ch. 74, Sch. X
                     115.02,
165-1981 11-9-81     115.06,
                     115.08
169-1982 2-22-82     Ch. 75, Sch. III
179-1982 7-26-82     Ch. 75, Sch. III
182-1982 9-13-82     Ch. 74, Sch. XI
183-1982 10-12-82    Ch. 74, Sch. X
184-1982 10-12-82    Ch. 74, Sch. X
185-1982 11-22-82    T.S.O. III
                     97.01 -
                     97.06,
186-1982 11-22-82    97.20 -
                     97.34,
                     97.99
199-1983 6-13-83     T.S.O. III
200-1983 6-13-83     T.S.O. III
206-1983 10-11-83    Ch. 74, Sch. XI
215-1984 2-13-84     T.S.O. III
216-1984 2-13-84     T.S.O. III
217-1984 2-13-84     T.S.O. III
218-1984 3-12-84     T.S.O. III
232-1984 5-14-84     Ch. 74, Sch. X
227-1984 6-11-84     111.22
229-1984 6-25-84     T.S.O. III
235-1984 9-10-84     51.01
237-1984 11-26-84    Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
240-1984 12-10-84    Ch. 74, Sch. XII
241-1984 12-10-84    Ch. 74, Sch. VII
250-1984 12-27-84    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                     95.01 -
                     95.04,
                     95.15 -
259-1985 1-14-85     95.19,
                     95.30 -
                     95.36,
                     95.99
262-1985 2-25-85     T.S.O. III
273-1985 5-28-85     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
274-1985 5-28-85     T.S.O. III
277-1985 7-8-85      30.110 -
                     30.112
279-1985 7-8-85      T.S.O. III
280-1985 7-8-85      T.S.O. III
288-1985 9-30-85     112.01 -
                     112.12
292-1985 11-12-85    113.02
293-1985 11-12-85    T.S.O. III
295-1985 11-25-85    T.S.O. III
296-1985 11-25-85    T.S.O. III
297-1985 11-25-85    T.S.O. III
301-1985 12-23-85    T.S.O. III
303-1985 12-23-85    T.S.O. III
                     50.45 -
307-1986 1-27-86     50.55,
                     50.99
                     50.46,
313-1986 2-24-86     50.49,
                     50.50
316-1986 4-14-86     Ch. 75, Sch. III
319-1986 4-14-86     T.S.O. III
332-1986 7-28-86     T.S.O. III
336-1986 9-22-86     T.S.O. III
337-1986 9-22-86     Ch. 74, Sch. I
338-1986 9-22-86     T.S.O. III
340-1986 10-14-86    32.001 -
                     32.003
349-1986 10-27-86    Ch. 74, Sch. I
                     37.01,
355-1987 2-23-87     37.02,
                     37.04 -
                     37.06
                     72.05,
356-1987 2-23-87     72.99,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
                     153.001,
369-1987 7-27-87     153.002,
                     153.004 -
                     153.027
373-1987 9-14-87     Ch. 75, Sch. I
378-1987 11-23-87    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
                     90.01 -
382-1987 12-30-87    90.13,
                     90.99
383-1987 12-30-87    T.S.O. I
                     98.35 -
387-1988 2-22-88     98.40,
                     98.99
                     99.01 -
391-1988 3-28-88     99.04,
                     99.99
394-1988 4-25-88     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
395-1988 4-25-88     Ch. 75, Sch. I
407-1988 5-23-88     71.01,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. XIII
414-1988 9-12-88     38.01 -
                     38.05
417-1988 9-26-88     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
418-1988 9-26-88     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
419-1988 9-26-88     Ch. 74, Sch. II
425-1988 11-14-88    T.S.O. III
426-1988 11-28-88    T.S.O. I
433-1988 12-29-88    90.10
438-1989 2-27-89     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
440-1989 3-13-89     36.04
441-1989 3-13-89     30.110 -
                     30.112
444-1989 3-27-89     Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
445-1989 3-27-89     Ch. 75, Sch. I
446-1989 3-27-89     Ch. 74, Sch. VIII;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III
457-1989 6-12-89     Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
458-1989 7-10-89     T.S.O. III
459-1989 7-24-89     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
460-1989 7-24-89     Ch. 75, Sch. I
461-1989 7-24-89     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
463-1989 8-14-89     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
464-1989 8-14-89     Ch. 74, Sch. XIII;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III
                     Ch. 74, Schs. II,
464-1989 8-14-89     VI,
                     IX,
                     X
465-1989 8-14-89     T.S.O. III
                     Ch. 74, Schs. I,
468-1989 9-11-89     III,
                     VII
470-1989 9-11-89     Ch. 75, Sch. IV
471-1989 9-25-89     Ch. 75, Sch. I
472-1989 10-10-89    T.S.O. III
473-1989 10-23-89    Ch. 75, Sch. III
475-1989 11-13-89    T.S.O. III
478-1989 11-27-89    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
479-1989 11-27-89    Ch. 75, Sch. I
480-1989 11-27-89    Ch. 75, Sch. III
                     72.06,
485-1990 2-26-90     72.99;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. V
                     52.01 -
486-1990 2-26-90     52.04,
                     52.99
525-1990 2-27-90     30.080,
                     30.081
488-1990 3-12-90     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
489-1990 3-12-90     Ch. 74, Sch. XI
493-1990 4-23-90     Ch. 74, Sch. XI
502-1990 7-9-90      71.01 
                     Ch. 75, Sch. XIII
506-1990 7-23-90     72.02,
                     72.03
507-1990 7-23-90     71.10
508-1990 7-23-90     71.11
509-1990 7-23-90     71.12
510-1990 7-23-90     71.13
511-1990 7-23-90     71.14
517-1990 9-24-90     Ch. 74, Sch. XI
518-1990 10-9-90     T.S.O. III
519-1990 10-9-90     Ch. 74, Sch. XI
523-1990 12-27-90    T.S.O. III
524-1990 12-27-90    T.S.O. III
526-1990 12-27-90    Ch. 74, Sch. XI
529-1990 12-27-90    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
530-1990 12-27-90    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
531-1990 12-27-90    T.S.O. III
535-1991 2-25-91     36.04
536-1991 2-25-91     Ch. 75, Sch. III
537-1991 2-25-91     Ch. 74, Sch. II
538-1991 3-11-91     32.115 -
                     32.119
539-1991 3-11-91     36.03
545-1991 4-22-91     36.04
547-1991 5-13-91     T.S.O. III
551-1991 5-28-91     T.S.O. III
561-1991 7-8-91      38.30 -
                     38.32
571-1991 9-10-91     Ch. 75, Sch. III
                     Ch. 74, Schs. II,
572-1991 9-10-91     III,
                     IV
830-1997 9-10-91     Ch. 74, Sch. II
                     37.01,
578-1991 9-23-91     37.02,
                     37.04 -
                     37.06
579-1991 11-12-91    T.S.O. III
580-1991 12-3-91     Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
586-1991 12-16-91    36.05
589-1992 1-27-92     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
598-1992 5-11-92     T.S.O. III
608-1992 7-13-92     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
                     37.02,
616-1992 8-10-92     37.04,
                     37.05
618-1992 9-14-92     T.S.O. III
629-1992 12-30-92    36.05
630-1992 12-30-92    72.99
631-1992 12-30-92    Ch. 74, Sch. II
644-1993 3-8-93      71.15
645-1993 3-8-93      71.16
656-1993 5-24-93     Ch. 74, Sch. II
663-1993 7-12-93     Ch. 75, Sch. II
672-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
673-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 75, Sch. IV
674-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 74, Sch. V
675-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 74, Sch. V
676-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 75, Sch. III
678-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 74, Sch. I
679-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 75, Sch. II
680-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 75, Sch. III
681-1993 12-13-93    70.04,
                     70.99
682-1993 12-13-93    71.17
683-1993 12-13-93    70.05,
                     70.99
684-1993 12-13-93    Ch. 74, Sch. V
677-1993 12-30-93    Ch. 75, Sch. I
692-94   3-14-94     Ch. 75, Sch. I
693-94   3-14-94     130.25 -
                     130.27
694-94   3-14-94     33.20
695-1994 4-25-94     98.01
                     153.001,
699-94   6-13-94     153.002,
                     153.004 -
                     153.027
702-1994 7-11-94     111.22
703-94   8-8-94      T.S.O. III
                     130.40 -
716-94   11-28-94    130.42,
                     130.99
722A-94  12-12-94    51.02
723-94   12-29-94    Ch. 75, Sch. V
730-1995 5-8-95      T.S.O. I
731-95   5-22-95     Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
733-95   5-22-95     71.16
734-95   5-22-95     71.18
736-95   6-12-95     T.S.O. III
739-95   8-14-95     T.S.O. III
745-95   10-10-95    Ch. 74, Sch. V
750-95   12-11-95    71.19
752-95   12-28-95    T.S.O. III
755-96   2-26-96     72.05,
                     72.99
757-96   3-11-96     71.20
760-96   4-9-96      T.S.O. III
771-96   8-12-96     T.S.O. III
                     91.01 -
773-96   10-14-96    91.05,
                     91.99
774-96   11-11-96    Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
775-96   11-25-96    Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
779-96   12-9-96     T.S.O. III
786-97   2-10-97     Ch. 74, Sch. XI
791-97   3-10-97     50.04
793-97   4-28-97     119.01 - 119.08,
                     119.99
794-97   4-28-97     35.05
797-97   4-28-97     71.18,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
804-97   5-19-97     50.08
                     130.75 -
805-97   5-19-97     130.78,
                     130.99
806-97   5-19-97     98.16
809-97   6-9-97      38.30 -
                     38.32
811-97   7-14-97     T.S.O. II
812-97   7-14-97     153.002,
                     153.003
                     92.01 -
                     92.09,
                     92.20 -
841-97   10-13-97    92.29,
                     92.50,
                     92.51,
                     92.99
828-97   9-8-97      Ch. 74, Sch. XI
829-97   9-8-97      Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
                     71.18,
830-97   9-8-97      Ch. 74, Schs. VIII,
                     IX,
                     XI
831-97   9-8-97      38.60
833-97   9-8-97      72.07,
                     72.99
835-97   10-13-97    71.21
836-97   10-13-97    71.23
837-97   10-13-97    71.22
838-97   10-13-97    71.24
839-97   10-13-97    71.10
846-97   10-27-97    T.S.O. III
                     32.130,
847-97   11-10-97    32.131,
                     38.50
850-97   11-24-97    Ch. 74, Sch. XI
852-97   12-8-97     71.25
                     71.10,
                     71.11 -
853-97   12-8-97     71.17,
                     71.19,
                     71.20 -
                     71.25
854-97   12-8-97     36.08
855-97   12-29-97    Ch. 74, Sch. II
857-97   1-26-98     71.25,
                     71.26
858-98   1-26-98     38.20
859-98   2-9-98      T.S.O. III
860-98   2-9-98      31.01 -
                     31.15
861-98   2-9-98      38.40 -
                     38.42
867-98   4-27-98     T.S.O. II
868-98   4-27-98     T.S.O. II
871-98   5-1-98      30.120 -
                     30.122
                     32.055 -
873-98   5-11-98     32.062,
                     153.005
877-98   5-26-98     71.26
875-98   6-8-98      Ch. 74, Sch. XI
876-98   6-8-98      33.20 -
                     33.23
877-98   6-8-98      71.26
881-98   8-10-98     T.S.O. II
882-98   8-10-98     T.S.O. II
883-98   8-10-98     T.S.O. I
885-98   8-10-98     T.S.O. I
889-98   9-14-98     Ch. 75, Sch. I
890-98   9-14-98     130.01 -
                     130.05
893-98   9-28-98     T.S.O. II
894-98   9-28-98     T.S.O. II
896-98   10-26-98    Ch. 118
902-98   12-15-98    T.S.O. III
905-98   12-30-98    38.01 -
                     38.05
906-99   1-25-99     30.036
907-99   1-25-99     51.17
908-99   1-25-99     T.S.O. IV
909-99   2-22-99     36.01
910-99   2-22-99     Adopting Ordinance
911-99   3-8-99      T.S.O. II
912-99   3-8-99      T.S.O. II
915-99   3-22-99     36.01
916-99   3-22-99     Ch. 75, Sch. I
917-99   3-22-99     Repeals
                     Ch. 117
919-99   4-12-99     154.015
920-99   4-12-99     71.27
921-99   4-12-99     71.28
922-99   4-12-99     71.29
923-99   4-12-99     71.30
924-99   4-12-99     71.31
                     10.99,
929-99   4-12-99     70.06,
                     71.02
931-99   4-26-99     36.01
932-99   4-26-99     Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
933-99   4-26-99     31.11
935-99   6-28-99     112.03
936-99   7-12-99     71.32
937-99   7-12-99     71.33
938-99   7-12-99     T.S.O. IV
940-99   7-26-99     T.S.O. IV
941-99   8-9-99      T.S.O. IV
                     37.01,
942-99   8-9-99      37.07 -
                     37.09
                     150.01 -
                     150.10,
                     150.12,
                     152.001 -
                     152.006,
                     152.011 -
                     152.016,
                     152.021 -
                     152.025,
                     152.031 -
                     152.036,
                     152.051 -
                     152.056,
                     152.061 -
                     152.066,
                     152.071 -
                     152.076,
945-99   9-13-99     152.080 -
                     152.085,
                     152.090 -
                     152.096,
                     152.101,
                     152.131 -
                     152.136,
                     152.141 -
                     152.146,
                     152.151 -
                     152.154,
                     153.002 -
                     153.027,
                     156.001 -
                     156.044,
                     158.02,
                     158.03,
                     159.01 -
                     159.05
                     150.10,
946-99   9-13-99     152.041 -
                     152.046
949-99   9-13-99     T.S.O. II
951-99   9-27-99     36.01
953-99   10-26-99    Ch. 74, Sch. XII
955-99   10-26-99    T.S.O. III
                     150.10,
956-99   11-8-99     152.002,
                     156.020,
                     156.999
957-99   11-8-99     32.035 -
                     32.043
958-99   11-8-99     111.99
959-99   11-8-99     Ch. 74, Sch. III
960-99   11-8-99     Ch. 74, Sch. XII
961-99   11-8-99     Ch. 74, Sch. III
962-99   11-8-99     151.01 -
                     151.26
                     70.07,
                     71.10,
                     71.20,
963-99   11-22-99    71.23,
                     71.25,
                     71.99, 73.08,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. XIII,
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
964-99   11-22-99    92.29,
                     92.50
965-99   12-13-99    152.043
966-99   12-13-99    T.S.O. V
1-2000   1-24-00     152.035,
                     T.S.O. III
                     150.10,
2-2000   1-24-00     152.131 -
                     152.136
                     152.025,
                     152.033,
3-2000   1-24-00     152.063,
                     152.076,
                     152.146
04-2000  1-24-00     35.07
05-2000  2-14-00     51.17
6-2000   2-28-00     152.135
                     152.053,
                     152.063,
                     152.073 -
07-2000  3-13-00     152.076,
                     152.083,
                     152.093,
                     152.143
08-2000  3-13-00     32.140 -
                     32.148
10-2000  4-10-00     32.146
11-2000  4-24-00     152.142,
                     152.143
13-2000  4-24-00     100.04 
19-00    2-22-00     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
21-00    9-11-00     T.S.O. IV
22-00    9-11-00     152.062
23-00    9-11-00     Ch. 75, Sch. I
24-00    9-11-00     154.010,
                     156.005
                     92.01 -
                     92.09,
                     92.20 -
26-00    10-10-00    92.29,
                     92.50 -
                     92.51,
                     92.99
28-00    10-10-00    150.12
30-00    10-23-00    36.01
32-00    11-13-00    34.01
33-00    11-27-00    Ch. 74, Sch. VII,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
34-00    11-27-00    51.17
                     32.043,
35-00    12-28-00    158.04,
                     156.001,
                     156.016
36-00    12-28-00    T.S.O. IV
3-01     2-26-01     111.26 -
                     111.30
6-01     3-12-01     31.13
                     130.45,
11-01    4-23-01     130.46,
                     130.99
12-01    5-14-01     130.40
                     110.01 -
16-01    9-10-01     110.23,
                     110.99
17-01    9-10-01     31.13
                     50.01,
                     50.04,
18-01    9-24-01     50.05,
                     50.07 -
                     50.11
19-01    10-9-01     154.006
20-01    10-9-01     154.006
21-01    10-9-01     152.141 -
                     152.146
22-01    10-22-01    154.006
24-01    12-10-01    152.003,
                     152.004
                     152.003,
25-01    12-10-01    152.004,
                     152.143
1-02     1-28-02     51.17
2-02     1-28-02     Repealing
                     152.133
3-02     1-28-02     158.02
8-02     3-11-02     T.S.O. IV
9-02     4-8-02      Ch. 74, Sch. VII
                     100.03,
10-02    4-8-02      100.06,
                     100.07
11-02    5-28-02     T.S.O. IV
12-02    6-24-02     156.030
17-02    10-28-02    Ch. 75, Sch. I
                     130.85 -
18-02    10-28-02    130.88,
                     130.99
19-02    10-28-02    T.S.O. II
21-02    11-25-02    T.S.O. II
22-02    12-30-02    T.S.O. III
24-03    2-10-03     Ch. 75, Sch. I
25-03    3-10-03     Ch. 75, Sch. I
32-03    9-9-03      71.03
33-03    9-9-03      34.50,
                     34.99
34-03    9-22-03     111.22
36-03    11-10-03    T.S.O. II
37-03    11-10-03    T.S.O. II
38-03    12-29-03    35.07
40-04    1-26-04     T.S.O. II
41-04    1-26-04     51.17
42-04    3-8-04      154.015
43-04    3-22-04     153.001 -
                     153.027
48-04    5-10-04     34.65 -
                     34.69
49-04    5-10-04     32.115 -
                     32.119
60-05    3-7-05      T.S.O. II
61-05    3-7-05      158.03
68-05    5-9-05      Ch. 75, Sch. I
                     110.02,
69-05    6-27-05     110.04,
                     110.05
70-05    6-27-05     92.01,
                     92.02
                     119.01 -
71-05    6-27-05     119.04,
                     119.99
73-05    11-14-05    130.95,
                     130.96
75-05    12-29-05    T.S.O. II
77-06    2-13-06     71.03
                     51.26,
                     51.27,
                     92.30,
                     150.08,
                     150.10,
                     150.11,
                     150.12,
                     152.003,
                     152.004,
                     152.005,
                     152.014,
                     152.015,
                     152.033,
                     152.063,
                     152.067 -
85-06    4-24-06     152.070,
                     152.075,
                     152.085,
                     152.086,
                     152.101,
                     152.102,
                     152.131 -
                     152.136,
                     152.142,
                     152.143,
                     152.145,
                     154.013,
                     154.015 -
                     154.017,
                     156.034,
                     156.037,
                     158.01   
86-06    5-22-06     152.137,
                     T.S.O. VI
                     150.10,
                     150.11,
                     152.033,
90-06    7-24-06     152.069,
                     152.102,
                     152.135,
                     152.143
91-06    10-10-06    152.101
94-06    4-24-06     T.S.O. II
97-07    2-26-07     32.160 -
                     32.166
101-07   4-10-07     T.S.O. II
102-07   4-10-07     36.09,
                     36.10
                     50.01 -
                     50.11,
103-07   5-14-07     50.45 -
                     50.55,
                     50.99
108-07   6-25-07     T.S.O. II
                     152.102,
110-07   7-9-07      152.103,
                     154.015 -
                     154.017
112-07   9-24-07     159.03
116-07   12-27-07    130.95,
                     130.96
124-08   4-14-08     51.25,
                     158.02
125-08   4-28-08     152.083
132-08   5-12-08     35.07
133-08   5-27-08     111.26
134-08   8-11-08     T.S.O. II
135-08   8-11-08     T.S.O. III
136-08   9-8-08      35.07
137-08   12-8-08     35.07
139-08   12-8-08     T.S.O. II
                     111.26,
142-09   3-9-09      111.27,
                     111.30,
                     111.31
144-09   5-11-09     35.07
149-09   6-8-09      71.34
                     117.001,
                     117.002,
                     117.015 -
                     117.024,
                     117.035 -
                     117.037,
150-09   9-8-09      117.050 -
                     117.054,
                     117.065 -
                     117.076,
                     117.085 -
                     117.089,
                     117.999
151-09   9-8-09      T.S.O. II
152-09   9-21-09     Ch. 74, Sch. III
154-09   10-12-09    51.03,
                     51.99
155-09   10-12-09    51.04,
                     51.99
156-09   10-26-09    153.028
160-10   5-10-10     T.S.O. VII
161-10   5-24-10     T.S.O. IV
162-10   5-24-10     T.S.O. II
171-10   10-12-10    71.35
172-10   10-12-10    92.50
175-10   12-13-10    T.S.O. II
                     51.26,
                     51.27,
                     130.55 -
177-10   12-30-10    130.60,
                     131.01 -
                     131.04,
                     131.99,
                     150.07
181-11   2-28-11     T.S.O. IV
                     150.10,
182-11   3-28-11     152.102,
                     152.103,
                     152.104
183-11   4-11-11     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
185-11   4-11-11     101.01 -
                     101.10
186-11   4-26-11     152.004,
                     152.014
195-11   8-8-11      T.S.O. III
196-11   9-12-11     T.S.O. II
198-11   11-3-11     T.S.O. IV
200-11   12-28-11    T.S.O. II
                     119.01 -
202-11   12-28-11    119.04,
                     119.99
203-12   2-13-12     Ch. 74, Sch. XII
205-12   2-13-12     32.161,
                     32.162
207-2012 2-27-12     70.05
213-12   5-29-12     92.28
215-12   9-10-12     T.S.O. IV
218-12   9-24-12     Ch. 74, Sch. III
221-12   11-26-12    34.75 -
                     34.81
223-12   12-10-12    36.10,
                     110.16
224-12   12-26-12    T.S.O. IV
225-13   2-11-13     30.030,
                     30.031
226-13   1-25-13     160.01 -
                     160.10
229-13   4-22-13     130.89,
                     130.99
231-13   5-28-13     111.30
                     115.01 -
238-13   10-14-13    115.08,
                     115.99
240-13   11-25-13    T.S.O. I
242-13   12-26-13    71.36
243-13   12-26-13    71.37
245-14   4-28-14     102.01 -
                     102.06
246-14   5-12-14     110.05,
                     110.10
                     76.01 -
247-14   5-12-14     76.11,
                     Ch. 76, App. A
252-14   6-9-14      71.38
253-14   6-9-14      71.39
                     161.01 -
254-14   10-14-14    161.03,
                     161.99
257-14   12-8-14     51.26
260-15   2-23-15     92.31
                     93.01,
                     150.07,
                     150.08,
                     150.10,
                     150.12,
                     150.13,
                     150.14,
                     150.15,
                     150.16,
                     150.17,
                     151.01,
                     151.21,
                     151.26,
                     152.003,
                     152.004,
                     152.005,
266-15   5-11-15     152.015,
                     152.022,
                     152.035,
                     152.092,
                     152.093,
                     152.102,
                     152.103,
                     152.104,
                     153.001 -
                     153.028,
                     154.006,
                     154.007,
                     154.015,
                     156.037,
                     159.03,
                     159.05,
                     T.S.O. III
268-15   8-10-15     Ch. 75, Sch. I
269-15   10-13-15    92.32
272-15   12-29-15    Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
                     114.01 -
273-16   2-22-16     114.13,
                     114.99
                     103.01 -
274-16   2-22-16     101.03,
                     103.99
275-16   2-22-16     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                     156.016,
277-16   3-28-16     158.02,
                     158.05
278-16   3-28-16     50.08,
                     50.09
                     50.46,
279-16   3-28-16     50.47,
                     50.49 -
                     50.52
287-16   9-12-16     152.132
288-16   10-17-16    113.02
289-16   10-17-16    152.137
290-16   11-28-16    T.S.O. IV
291-16   11-14-16    35.06
292-16   12-12-16    T.S.O. II
293-16   12-28-16    T.S.O. I
294-17   2-13-17     71.40
299-17   3-27-17     31.13
300-17   4-24-17     T.S.O. IV
301-17   4-24-17     T.S.O. IV
302-17   5-8-17      T.S.O. II
308-17   9-11-17     32.015 -
                     32.020
309-17   9-25-17     T.S.O. IV
310-17   10-10-17    Ch. 74, Sch. XIII
                     31A.01,
                     31A.02,
                     31A.15 -
311-17   12-27-17    31A.28,
                     31A.40 -
                     31A.55,
                     31A.70 -
                     31A.72
                     94.01 -
312-17   12-27-17    94.12,
                     94.25 -
                     94.31
317-18   2-12-18     T.S.O. V
318-18   2-12-18     161.04
320-18   3-5-18      T.S.O. IV
322-18   3-5-18      32.146,
                     32.147
324-18   5-29-18     T.S.O. II
                     34A.01,
                     34A.02,
                     34A.10 -
325-18   5-29-18     34A.12,
                     34A.20 -
                     34A.24,
                     34A.30,
                     34A.31
331-18   8-13-18     10.99,
                     130.99
332-18   9-17-18     T.S.O. II
                     101.01,
335-18   10-15-18    101.02,
                     101.09
338-18   12-10-18    T.S.O. II
339-19   1-28-19     T.S.O. IV
344-19   4-9-19      T.S.O. IV
350-19   7-23-19     152.161 -
                     152.165
352-19   9-10-19     T.S.O. VI
353-19   9-23-19     130.89
354-19   9-23-19     113.02
355-19   10-28-19    34B.01 -
                     34B.23
356-19   10-28-19    31A.03
357-19   12-2-19     T.S.O. V
358-19   12-2-19     T.S.O. V
362-20   3-9-20      T.S.O. IV
364-20   6-22-20     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
366-20   7-13-20     104.01 -
                     104.06
373-20   11-9-20     152.053
375-21   1-21-21     Ch. 74, Sch. VII
380-21   3-23-21     154.017
381-21   6-14-2   T.S.O. VI
                     150.10,
386-21   8-9-21      152.171 -
                     152.175
387-21   8-9-21      34.51
389-21   10-12-21    70.05
390-21   10-12-21    104.02,
                     104.03
                     150.14,
391-21   10-12-21    150.17,
                     154.006
392-21   12-13-21    T.S.O. II
393-21   12-13-21    T.S.O. II
                     152.172,
394-21   12-29-21    152.175,
                     152.176
396-22   2-28-22     32.170 -
                     32.177
397-22   3-14-22     152.175,
                     152.176
399-22   3-14-22     38.70,
                     38.71
407-22   9-12-22     T.S.O. VI
408-22   9-12-22     162.01 -
                     162.05
                     31A.01,
                     31A.02,
                     31A.15 -
411-22   10-24-22    31A.28,
                     31A.40 -
                     31A.55,
                     31A.70 -
                     31A.72
414-22   10-24-22    Ch. 75, Sch. I
415-22   10-24-22    Ch. 74, Sch. IX
416-2023 2-13-23     Ch. 74, Sch. III
417-2023 2-13-23     32.035 -
                     32.044
418-2023 2-13-23     32.115
419-2023 2-13-23     32.015 -
                     32.020
422-23   3-27-23     T.S.O. II
423-23   3-27-23     T.S.O. IV
424-23   4-11-23     T.S.O. II
425-23   4-10-23     T.S.O. IV
                     31A.01,
                     31A.02,
                     31A.15 -
426-23   4-23-23     31A.28,
                     31A.40 -
                     31A.55,
                     31A.70 -
                     31A.72
427-23   4-24-23     T.S.O. II
428-23   5-8-23   T.S.O. II
436-23   6-26-23     150.15
437-23   6-26-23     34.51
438-23   7-24-23     159.06
439-23   8-14-23     Ch. 74, Sch. III
440-23   9-11-23     34.18
441-23   10-10-23    Ch. 74, Sch. III
442-2023 10-10-23    34.51
                     110.04,
444-23   12-27-23    110.08,
                     110.09,
                     110.16
                     150.10,
448-24   3-25-24     150.13,
                     150.14,
                     152.083
455-24   7-8-24      154.006
456-24   7-8-24      T.S.O. II
                    
 
 
