TOWN OF GILBERT, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through 4-15-2025
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
325 Vine Street, Ste. 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   General definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
10.07   Conflicting provisions
   
10.08   Separability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory references
Authority to impose penalties, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-2(11)
Codification of ordinances, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-4(b)
Maximum penalty permitted, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-5(57)
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, chapters, subchapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Codified Ordinances of Gilbert, West Virginia, 2024,” for which designation
“codified ordinances” may be substituted. Code, chapter, subchapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
codified ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, chapters, subchapters, and sections are
to such components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified.
      (2)   Any component code may be referred to and cited by its name, such
as the “traffic code.”
      (3)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§”
followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”
§ 10.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Mingo County, West Virginia.
   LAND or LANDS and REAL ESTATE or REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements,
and hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein except chattel
interests.
   LAWS OF THE STATE. The Constitution of the state and the Constitution of the
United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Gilbert, West Virginia.
   OFFENSE. Includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture, or
punishment is imposed by law.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER. Includes corporations, societies, associations, and
partnerships, and other similar legal business organizations.
   PERSONAL ESTATE or PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes goods, chattels, real and
personal, money, credits, investments, and the evidences thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PRECEDING, SUCCEEDING, or FOLLOWING. Used in reference to any section or
sections of a chapter or subchapter, and means next preceding, next succeeding,
or next following that in which such reference is made.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and building.
   PROPERTY or ESTATE. Embraces both real and personal estate.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia or any department, division, commission,
board, educational, or other institution of the state.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises alone or with others.
   W. VA. CODE. The West Virginia Code.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters, or
figures, whether by printing, engraving, writing, or otherwise. But when the
signature of any person is required, it must be in his or her own proper
handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved, or acknowledged.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (C)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, or if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday it shall also be excluded.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-3)
   (D)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (E)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-9)
   (B)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-8)
   (C)   The repeal by any provision of the codified ordinances of an ordinance
validating previous acts, contracts, or transactions shall not affect the
validity of such acts, contracts, or transactions, but the same shall remain as
valid as if there had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-11)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group of sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (C)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters in the series are deemed to be included.
§ 10.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-5)
§ 10.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, subchapters, or sections of
the codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void, or ineffective for any cause does
not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part
thereof.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
Section
Meetings
   
30.01   Time and place of meetings
   
30.02   Order of business
   
30.03   General rules of order
   
30.04   Meetings; other types of meetings
Mayor
   
30.15   Town’s affairs
   
30.16   Town’s contracts
MEETINGS
§ 30.01 TIME AND PLACE OF MEETINGS.
   The governing body shall hold regular monthly meetings at 7:00 p.m. on the
third Thursday of each month at the Town Hall building.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 30.02 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   At each meeting of the governing body of the town, the following regular
order of business shall be observed unless dispensed with by a majority vote of
the members present:
   (A)   Call to order by the Mayor;
   (B)   Roll call by the Recorder;
   (C)   Reading of minutes of the previous meeting by the Recorder and
approval of correction;
   (D)   Grievance of citizens;
   (E)   Communications from the Mayor;
   (F)   Reports from committees, members of the governing body, and other
officers;
   (G)   Old business;
   (H)   New business; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 30.03 GENERAL RULES OF ORDER.
   The rules of order and parliamentary procedure contained in Robert’s Rules
of Order Revised shall govern the transaction of business by and before the
governing body at its meeting in all cases to which they are applicable and in
which they are not inconsistent with provisions of the charter of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code Ch. 8
§ 30.04 MEETINGS; OTHER TYPES OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The rules established in and by this section are mandated by and
promulgated pursuant to W. Va. Code § 6-9A, 1931, as amended (herein called the
“Act”), and other applicable provisions of law.
   (B)   It is hereby found, determined, and declared as follows.
      (1)   Section 3 of the Act requires each governing body, as defined in
the Act, to promulgate rules by which the time and place of all regularly
scheduled meetings and the time, place, and purpose of all special meetings are
made available, in advance, to the public and news media.
      (2)   The Council of the town (herein called the “Council”) is a
governing body within the meaning of the Act.
      (3)   Accordingly, it is hereby ordered that the rules set out in
division (C) below be promulgated and established as rules of procedure of the
Council.
   (C)   The following are hereby promulgated and established as rules of
procedure of the Council:
      (1)   Rule No. 1: Notice of regularly scheduled meetings.
         (a)   Immediately after adoption of this section and in July of each
year thereafter, the Council shall instruct the Recorder to, and the Recorder
shall, post and leave posted throughout the year to which it applies, at the
regular meeting place where notices customarily are posted, a notice setting
forth the times and places of the Council’s regularly scheduled meetings for
the ensuing year. Such notice shall be of a size and style sufficient to give
notice and shall be of a quality sufficient to withstand deterioration
throughout the year to which it applies. Additional copies of the notice shall
be delivered to the Recorder. Also, immediately after adoption of this section
and in July of each year thereafter, the Council shall instruct the Recorder
to, and the Recorder shall, distribute to each of the newspapers, television
stations, radio stations, and other news media listed below a notice identical
to that posted.
News Media Address
News Media            Address
The Gilbert Times     P.O. Box 1135 Gilbert, WV 25621
Williamson Daily News 100 East 3rd Avenue Williamson, WV 25661
WBTH-AM               P.O. Box 261 Williamson, WV 25661
WCHS-TV               911 5th Avenue Huntington, WV 25701
WOWK-TV               P.O. Box 13 Huntington, WV 25706-0013
WSAZ-TV               645 5th Avenue Huntington, WV 25701
WXCC-FM               P.O. Box 261 Williamson, WV 25661
 
         (b)   A notice shall be considered distributed to a news medium when
it has been addressed to such news medium at the address listed above, or at
such other address as the news medium has in writing requested be used, marked,
or stamped with first class postage and deposited in the United States mail. In
June of each year after the adoption of this section, the Council shall review
the above list and shall amend such list as needed, in the opinion of the
Council, to reflect properly all the newspapers, television stations, radio
stations, and other news media that customarily cover news of the area served
by the Council
         (c)   In the event of any modification in the time or place of a
regularly scheduled meeting of the Council, notice of such modification shall
be given to the public and news media by posting at the place and distributing
to the news media in the manner set forth above, not less than three days prior
to the date of such regularly scheduled meeting, or, if such regularly
scheduled meeting has been rescheduled for an earlier time, prior to the date
of such rescheduled meeting, a notice setting forth such modification in the
time or place of such regularly scheduled meeting. A copy of such notice shall
be attached to and made a part of the minutes of the meeting for which such
notice was given.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, notice of the recess
or adjournment of a regularly scheduled meeting and of the time and place for
the continuation or reconvening thereof publicly given during such regularly
scheduled meeting shall be adequate notice to the public and news media of the
time and place thereof.
         (e)   Provided, failure of the Recorder to comply exactly with the
posting and distribution requirements hereof shall not invalidate the actions
taken at the meeting for which such notice was posted and distributed if the
Council shall determine that such posting and distribution were in substantial
compliance herewith.
      (2)   Rule No. 2: Notice of special meeting. Not less than three but not
more than eight days prior to the date set for any special meeting of the
Council, the Council shall instruct the Recorder to, and the Recorder shall,
post on the door of the regular meeting place of the Council, and at such other
place, if any, where notices customarily are posted a notice setting forth the
time, place, and purpose or purposes of such special meeting. Business at such
special meeting shall be limited to the purpose or purposes specified in said
notice.
         (a)   As soon as practical after the posting of said notice, but not
less than three days prior to the date set for such special meeting, the
Recorder shall distribute to each of the newspapers, television stations, radio
stations, and other news media listed in division (C)(1) above, Rule No. 1, a
notice identical to that posted. Amendments made to such list, as provided for
in said division (C)(1) above, Rule No. 1, shall be incorporated by reference
in this division (C)(2), Rule No. 2. A notice shall be considered distributed
to a news medium when it has been addressed to such news medium at the address
listed in said division (C)(1) above, Rule No. 1, or at such other address as
the news medium has in writing requested be used, marked, or stamped with first
class postage and deposited in the United States mail.
         (b)   A copy of such notice posted and distributed pursuant to this
division (C)(2), Rule No. 2, shall be attached to and made a part of the
minutes of the meeting for which such notice was given.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, notice of the recess
or adjournment of any special meeting and of the time and place for the
continuation or reconvening thereof publicly given during such special meeting
shall be adequate notice to the public and news media of the time and place
thereof, the purpose or purposes therefor remaining the same.
         (d)   Provided, failure of the Recorder to comply exactly with the
posting and distribution requirements hereof shall not invalidate the actions
taken at the meeting for which such notice was posted and distributed if the
Council shall determine that such posting and distribution were in substantial
compliance herewith.
      (3)   Rule No. 3: Emergency meetings. A meeting as of the Council may be
held without the notice to the public and news media required by division (C)
(1) above, Rule No. 1, and division (C)(2) above, Rule No. 2, only in the event
of any emergency requiring immediate official action. The existence for such an
emergency requiring immediate official action shall be determined by the
Council and shall be attested to in a certificate by the Recorder describing
such emergency and setting forth the reason or reasons immediate official
action is required, which certificate shall be attached to and made a part of
the minutes of such emergency meeting.
(Res. passed 3-15-1994)
MAYOR
§ 30.15 TOWN’S AFFAIRS.
   The Mayor shall have general supervision of all the affairs of the
municipality and may require such reports from the various officers and
employees of the municipality as he or she may reasonably deem necessary to
carry out his or her executive responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 30.16 TOWN’S CONTRACTS.
   The Mayor shall execute all contracts authorized by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Employees
   
31.001   Applicability
   
31.002   Vacation leave
   
31.003   Leave records
   
31.004   Hiring of employees
   
31.005   Emergency hiring
   
31.006   Disciplinary procedures
   
31.007   Policies, procedures
   
31.008   Employee evaluation
   
31.009   Dismissal of employees
   
31.010   Tax return security
Recorder, Clerk
   
31.025   To be bonded
   
31.026   To keep minutes
   
31.027   General administrative duties
Town Administrator
   
31.040   Purpose
   
31.041   Qualifications
   
31.042   Powers, duties
   
31.043   Absence of Town Administrator
   
31.044   Administrative departments
   
31.045   Directors of departments
   
31.046   Department divisions
   
31.047   Town Clerk
   
31.048   Secondary employment
Town Attorney
   
31.060   Authority, duties
Social Security
   
31.075   Policy, purpose
   
31.076   Necessary agreements to be executed
   
31.077   Withholdings from salaries, wages
   
31.078   Appropriations for employer’s contributions
   
31.079   Records, reports to be made
Restrictions on Personnel
   
31.090   Business dealings
   
31.091   Acceptance of gratitude
   
31.092   Political activity
   
31.093   Use of municipal time, facilities, and the like
   
31.094   Use of position
   
31.095   Strikes, unions
 
   
31.999   Penalty
EMPLOYEES
§ 31.001 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all employees, except those operating under
the jurisdicition of a school or other separate board or commission.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.002 VACATION LEAVE.
   (A)   All officers and employees shall be given one week of vacation leave
with pay for a full year of employment, two weeks for each two full years of
employment, and three weeks of vacation leave with pay for five years of
employment. Such vacation leave shall be taken at a time approved by the
Council.
   (B)   At no time shall an employee’s total vacation leave exceed three
weeks; nor shall they include sick leave with vacation leave:
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.003 LEAVE RECORDS.
   The Recorder shall cause to be kept for each employee a record currently up
to date showing vacation time taken and accrued vacation time.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.004 HIRING OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Opportunity for employment shall be open to any person who is
qualified for the desired position. Offers of employment shall be made by the
posting of the position at the Town Hall and in local newspapers capable of
carrying legal advertising.
   (B)   A written job description shall be written for each position. All
positions shall be posted and advertised at least three weeks in advance of
hiring. All applicants will be considered by the Council or by a committee of
three Council members appointed by the Mayor. All positions shall be posted and
advertised at least three weeks in advance of hiring. All applicants will be
considered by the Council or by a committee of three Council members appointed
by the Mayor. All persons hired by committee shall have their employment
confirmed by a majority vote of the Council. The town shall observe all aspects
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the Americans with Disabilities
Act.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.005 EMERGENCY HIRING.
   (A)   In the event of an emergency, the Mayor shall call a special meeting
of the Council to temporarily fill the vacancy until the procedures in §
31.004 can be carried out.
   (B)   In the event that a vacancy must be filled before an special meeting
can be conducted, the Mayor shall fill the vacancy pending ratification by the
Council at either a special or regular meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.006 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES.
   Any employee that is found in need disciplinary action shall be notified in
writing of any infraction of procedure or lack of performance thereof. Any
employee receiving three written notices of infraction within a six-month
period shall be terminated. The written notice, also known as a reprimand,
shall be made on a preprinted form with due space given for written
instructions for improvement written upon the face of the form. An employee
shall be immediately dismissed upon conviction of a felony. Convictions of a
misdemeanor that would seriously impair the Council’s confidence in the
employee’s ability and/or integrity to carry out job duties shall also result
in dismissal by the Mayor pending ratification by the Council at the next
regular meeting.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.007 POLICIES, PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Policies and procedures shall be in writing with a signed
acknowledgment by the employee that such written polices and procedures have
been read and understood.
   (B)   Written instructions, policies, and procedures shall be crafted by the
Mayor or by a committee of three elected members of town government appointed
by the Mayor in accordance with the ordinance enacted by the Council.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.008 EMPLOYEE EVALUATION.
   (A)   Once per year, or at any other such intervals as may be fixed by
ordinance, the Mayor shall conduct an evaluation of each employee’s performance
and shall make the results known to the Council in executive session in
accordance with the State Open Meetings Act of 1975 as it pertains to employee
matters.
   (B)   The Mayor may opt to appoint a committee of three elected members of
town government to conduct and report employee evaluations.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
§ 31.009 DISMISSAL OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   If an employee’s work becomes unsatisfactory, the Mayor shall have the
right to immediately suspend or terminate that employee, and the Mayor’s action
shall be ratified or disapproved at the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting or during a specially called session for that purpose.
   (B)   In the event the Mayor’s action with regard to the suspension of
termination is ratified by vote of the Council, such action is final.
   (C)   The Council shall have the power to rescind the initial action by the
Mayor and to take any action necessary concerning that particular employee.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.010 TAX RETURN SECURITY.
   (A)   (1)   Any officer or employee of this town who requests or receives
tax information under the reciprocity agreement is bound to protect the
confidentiality of that information.
      (2)   It shall be the primary responsibility of the Town Recorder to ask
for tax information and supply information covered under the reciprocal
agreement.
   (B)   (1)   Except when required in an official investigation into the
amount of tax due under any article administered under this section, or in any
proceeding before a court of competent jurisdiction to collect or ascertain the
amount of such tax and except as provided in subsections (f), (g), and (h) it
shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of this town to divulge or make
known in any manner the tax return, or any part thereof, of any individual,
firm, or corporation, or disclose information concerning the personal affairs
of any individual or the business of any single firm or corporation, or
disclose the amount of income, or any particulars set forth or disclose in any
report, declaration, or return required to be filed with the Tax Commissioner
by any portion of this section imposing any tax imposing any tax administered
under this section or by any rule or regulation of the Tax Commissioner issued
thereunder.
      (2)   Any person protected by the provisions of this section may, in
writing, waive the secrecy provisions of this section for such purpose and such
period as he or she shall therein state, and the Commissioner, if he or she so
determines, any thereupon release to designated such taxpayer’s return or other
particulars filed under the provisions of the tax articles administered under
the provisions of this section.
      (3)   This division (B) shall not be construed to prohibit the
publication or release of statistics so classified as to prevent the
identification of particular reports and the items thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-23-1987; Ord. passed 2-2-1987) Penalty, see §
31.999
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Ch. 35
RECORDER, CLERK
§ 31.025 TO BE BONDED.
   The Recorder shall be bonded in the sum of $3,500, with surety acceptable to
the governing body, before assuming the duties of this office.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 31.026 TO KEEP MINUTES.
   The Recorder shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the governing body
and shall preserve the original copy of all ordinances in a separate ordinance
book.
(Prior Code, § 1-302)
§ 31.027 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.
   The Recorder shall perform all administrative duties for the governing body
and for the municipality which are not expressly assigned by the charter or
this code to another corporate officer. He or she shall also have custody of,
and be responsible for maintaining, all corporate bonds, records, and papers in
such fireproof vault or safe as the municipality shall provide.
(Prior Code, § 1-303)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds required of police officers, see W. Va. Code § 61-7-5
   Bonds required of public officers generally, see W. Va. Code § 6-2-1
   Requirement that municipal officers who handle public funds give bond, see
W. Va. Code § 6-2-11
   State law as to authority of the town to require official bonds of town
officers, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(46)
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the town with a Town
Administrator who shall report directly to the Town Council and act on behalf
of the Council in the administration of all town departments and employees.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.041 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Town Administrator shall be chosen by the Town Council solely based on
his or her executive and administrative qualifications with special reference
to his or her actual experience and knowledge of accepted practice in respect
to the duties of the office as hereinafter set forth. At the time of his or her
appointment, he or she need not be a residence of the town, but during his or
her tenure of office, he or she shall reside in the county.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.042 POWERS, DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall be the chief executive officer and head
of the administrative branch of the town government.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible to the Town Council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the town and to that end, shall have the power
and shall be required to:
      (1)   Assist in preparing the budget annually and submit it to the Town
Council and be responsible for its administration after adoption;
      (2)   Prepare and submit to the Town Council a monthly financial report
and at the end of the fiscal year a complete report on the finances and
administrative activities of the town for the preceding year;
      (3)   Keep the Town Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the town and make such recommendations as may seem to him or her
desirable;
      (4)   Authorize expenditures in the amount of _________ or less for the
purpose of purchasing, maintenance, and repairs; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.043 ABSENCE OF TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator may designate, by letter filed with Town Council, the
Town Clerk as a qualified administrative officer of town, to perform duties
during his or her temporary absences or disability. In the event of the failure
of the Town Administrator to make such designation, the Town Council may, by
resolution, appoint an officer of the town to perform the duties of the Town
Administrator until he or she shall return or this disability shall cease, or
may abolish the position.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.044 ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS.
   There shall be a Police Department, Water Department, Sewer Department, and
such other administrative departments as may be established by ordinance upon
the recommendation of the Town Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.045 DIRECTORS OF DEPARTMENTS.
   The head of each department shall have supervision and control of the
department. The head of each department shall report to the Town Administrator,
who shall then report to Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.046 DEPARTMENT DIVISIONS.
   (A)   The work of each department may be distributed among such divisions
thereof as established by ordinance upon recommendation of the Town
Administrator.
   (B)   Pending the passage of an ordinance distributing the work of
departments under the supervision and control of the Town Administrator among
specific divisions thereof, the Town Administrator may establish temporary
divisions.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.047 TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Administrator shall supervise and direct the Town Clerk and aid in
the preparation of the annual budget.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2025)
§ 31.048 SECONDARY EMPLOYMENT.
   All administrators of various departments for the town are prohibited from
engaging in any secondary employment whatsoever in order to avoid any potential
conflicts of interest and appearances of impropriety.
(Res. passed 7-18-1994)
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.060 AUTHORITY, DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Attorney shall be the legal advisor and counselor of the town
and for all officers of the town.
   (B)   He or she shall represent the town in all courts and all proceedings
in which the town, or any town officer or employee in his or her official
capacity, is a party, and he or she shall perform all such duties incidental to
his or her office as may be required of him or her by the Town Council and
Mayor.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall receive such regular compensation, and such
fees for special services, as may be agreed upon by the Town Council and the
Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 31.075 POLICY, PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of this
municipality to provide for all eligible employees and officials of the
municipality, whether employed in connection with a governmental or proprietary
function, the benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors
insurance.
   (B)   In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the municipality
shall take such action as may be required by applicable state and federal laws
or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
§ 31.076 NECESSARY AGREEMENTS TO BE EXECUTED.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute all the necessary
agreements and amendments thereto with the State Executive Director of Old Age
Insurance, as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as
provided in §
31.075.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
§ 31.077 WITHHOLDINGS FROM SALARIES, WAGES.
   Withholdings from the salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purpose provided in §
31.075 are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may
be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and shall be
paid over to the state or federal agency designated by said laws or
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
§ 31.078 APPROPRIATIONS FOR EMPLOYER’S CONTRIBUTIONS.
   There shall be appropriated from available funds such amounts as such times
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for
employer’s contributions, and the same shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
§ 31.079 RECORDS, REPORTS TO BE MADE.
   The municipality shall keep such records and make such reports as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
RESTRICTIONS ON PERSONNEL
§ 31.090 BUSINESS DEALINGS.
   Except for the receipt of such compensation as may be lawfully provided for
the performance of his or her municipal duties, it shall be unlawful for any
municipal officer or employee to be privately interested in, or to profit,
directly or indirectly, from, business dealings with the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-901) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.091 ACCEPTANCE OF GRATITUDE.
   No municipal officer or employee shall accept any money or other
consideration or favor from anyone other than the municipality for the
performance of an act which he or she would be required or expected to perform
in the regular course of his or her duties; nor shall any officer or employee
accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity, or favor of any kind which
might reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to influence his or her actions
with respect to town business.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
§ 31.092 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Municipal officers and employees may individually exercise their right
to vote and privately express their political views as citizens.
   (B)   No municipal officer or employee shall solicit political campaign
contributions or engage in or actively participate in any political campaign.
These restrictions shall not apply to elective officials.
(Prior Code, § 1-903) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.093 USE OF MUNICIPAL TIME, FACILITIES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No municipal officer or employee shall use or authorize the use of
municipal time, facilities, equipment, or supplies for private gain or
advantage to himself or herself, or any other private person or group.
   (B)   Provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply where the
governing body has authorized the use of such time, facilities, equipment, or
supplies, and the municipality is paid at such rates as are normally charged by
private sources for comparable services.
(Prior Code, § 1-904) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.094 USE OF POSITION.
   No municipal officer or employee shall make or attempt to make private
purchases, for cash or otherwise, in the name of the municipality, nor shall he
or she otherwise use or attempt to use his or her position to secure
unwarranted privileges or exemptions for himself or herself, or others.
(Prior Code, § 1-905) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.095 STRIKES, UNIONS.
   No municipal officer or employee shall participate in any strike against the
municipality, nor shall he or she join, be a member of, or solicit any other
municipal officer or employee to join any labor union which authorizes the use
of strikes by government employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-906) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any officer or employee of this town who violates §
31.010(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both,
together with the costs of prosecution.
      (2)   Any officer or employee of this town who violates §
31.010(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or
both, together with the cots of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 1-907)
   (C)   A violation of any section of §§
31.090 through
31.095 shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for each separate
violation.
(Ord. passed 1-23-1987; Ord. passed 2-2-1987)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Commissions
Convention and Visitor’s Bureau
   
32.15   Creation
   
32.16   Purpose
   
32.17   Government of Bureau
   
32.18   Legal conduct of Bureau
   
32.19   Finance
   
32.20   Contracting with others
   
32.21   Reports by Bureau
Planning Commission
   
32.35   Creation
   
32.36   Purpose
   
32.37   Composition and membership; vacancies
   
32.38   Original appointments
   
32.39   Offices, facilities, and expenses
   
32.40   Meetings; quorum
   
32.41   Powers and duties
   
32.42   West Virginia Code adopted
Cross-reference:
   Utility Board, see §§
50.01 through
50.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COMMISSIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the authority to appoint committees composed of
three elected members of town government for the purpose of carrying out
administrative duties necessary for the well being of the community and/or as
may be necessary to comply with the state code.
   (B)   Committees shall have the administrative authority subject to approval
subject to approval by the Mayor, in the interim of regularly scheduled
meetings, to ratification of the Council during regularly scheduled Council
meetings.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1993)
CONVENTION AND VISITOR’S BUREAU
§ 32.15 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Town Convention and Visitor’s Bureau. This
Bureau shall be a non-stock, non-profit corporation formed under the corporate
laws of the state.
   (B)   The Bureau shall be governed by a Board of Directors consisting of
seven members. The Directors shall be distributed as follows:
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee;
      (2)   Two members of Town Council, or designees appointed by the Council
to act as its designees;
      (3)   (a)   Two persons who represent the interests of businesses owners
in the town who derive a portion of their income from tourism. These persons
shall be nominated by the Mayor and approved by the Town Council. The first
person nominated under this section after the enactment of this subchapter
shall be for a term of two years.
         (b)   The second person nominated under this section after the
enactment of this subchapter shall be for a term of four years. This will
create overlapping terms of membership. Thereafter, all appointments shall be
for a term of four years. Members are eligible for reappointment.
      (4)   (a)   1.   Two persons who are citizens of the town. The first
person nominated under this section after the enactment of this subchapter
shall be for a term of two years; and
            2.   The second person nominated under this section after the
enactment of this subchapter shall be for a term of four years.
         (b)   This will create overlapping terms of membership. Thereafter,
all appointments shall be for a term of four years. Members are eligible for
reappointment.
      (5)   All persons appointed under the provisions of this section shall
serve until their successors shall be duly appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The Bureau shall elect a Chairperson, Secretary-Treasurer, and other
officers from among its membership. It shall also adopt bylaws and rules of
procedure which are consistent with this subchapter and with state law. The
bylaws and rules of procedure are subject to the approval of Town Council.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
§ 32.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose or purposes for the Town Convention and Tourist’s Bureau are:
   (A)   To operate a Convention and Visitor’s Bureau for the town; to advance,
stimulate, and promote exhibits, conferences, conventions, and visitors in the
town; to assist generally in the promotion of exhibits, conferences,
conventions, and visitors in the town; to do all and everything necessary,
suitable, and proper for the accomplishment of any of the foregoing purposes or
for the furtherance of any of the foregoing purposes;
   (B)   To cooperate and act in conjunction with other organizations, federal,
state, or local in the promotion and advancement of conventions and tourism
within the town;
   (C)   To receive, accept, hold, and acquire any gifts, bequests, donations,
monies, funds, or properties of any type or nature whatsoever including
personal and real, from any public or private source, in the furtherance of the
purposes set forth; and
   (D)   To do any other act or thing lawfully permitted to be done by non-
stock, non-profit corporations formed under the state corporate law incidental
to and connected with the advertisement, promotion, and advancement of enticing
conventions and visitors to the town.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
§ 32.17 GOVERNMENT OF BUREAU.
   (A)   The Town Convention and Visitor’s Bureau shall be governed by its
articles of incorporation, amended articles of incorporation, and by-laws
approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Bureau shall conduct and operate its business on a day-to-day
basis through the direction of its board of directors.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
§ 32.18 LEGAL CONDUCT OF BUREAU.
   The Bureau shall have the right and power to contract and be contracted
with, to sue and be sued, and shall be authorized to conduct itself in all
regards as a non-profit corporation as set forth in W. Va. Code §§ 31-1-1 et
seq., 1931, as amended.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
§ 32.19 FINANCE.
   The Bureau shall be primarily funded by the town hotel occupancy tax, but
may accept further appropriations from the general budgets of the town, and may
accept gifts and donations or appropriations from other sources, whether public
or private.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Hotel occupancy tax, see § 
35.01
§ 32.20 CONTRACTING WITH OTHERS.
   (A)   The Bureau may contract with other public or private organizations to
advance and promote the purposes set forth in this subchapter, and may further
enter into agreements among and between various taxing authorities as provided
in W. Va. Code §§ 8-23-1 et seq., 1931, as amended, for such purposes.
   (B)   The Bureau may enter into an agreement with the State Tax
Commissioner, for auditing services as provided in W. Va. Code §§ 8-23-1 et
seq., 1931, as amended, for auditing services to be performed by the tax
commissioner; provided, that the bureau shall pay to the Tax Commissioner the
reasonable cost of such audits.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
§ 32.21 REPORTS BY BUREAU.
   (A)   Each year, on or before August 15, the Convention and Visitor’s Bureau
shall file with the town a statement, including an income statement and balance
sheet, showing all amounts of hotel occupancy tax, and other funds appropriated
to the Convention and Visitor’s Bureau, and all expenditures of hotel occupancy
and other funds tax made by the Convention and Visitor’s Bureau for the prior
fiscal year.
   (B)   The Bureau shall provide the town with other statements at any time
upon request of Town Council.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2007)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.35 CREATION.
   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Planning Commission for
the town.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.36 PURPOSE.
   It is the object of this subchapter to improve the present health, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the residents of the Town and to plan for the
future development of the town to the end that highway systems be carefully
planned, that new community centers grow only with adequate highway, utility,
health, educational, and recreational facilities, that the needs of industry
and business be recognized in future growth, that residential areas provide
healthy surroundings for family life, and that the growth of the community is
commensurate with and promotive of the efficient and economical use of public
funds.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.37 COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission of the town shall consist of five members, all
of whom shall be residents of the town, who shall be qualified by knowledge and
experience in matters pertaining to the development of the town and who shall
include representatives of business, industry, and labor. Three-fifths of all
members shall have been residents of the municipality for at least ten years
prior to nomination.
   (B)   One member of the Municipal Planning Commission shall also be a member
of Town Council, and one member shall also be a member of the administrative
department of the town. The term of these two members shall be coextensive with
the term of office to which he has been elected or appointed, unless the Mayor
and Council, at the first regular meeting of each year, appoint others to serve
as the town’s representatives. The remaining three members shall be appointed
for terms of three years each, except those members first appointed as provided
in this section. They shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by the Town
Council.
   (C)   Vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term only.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.38 ORIGINAL APPOINTMENTS.
   For the original appointment of the three members of the Municipal Planning
Commission provided for in this subchapter, one member shall be appointed for
one year, one member for two years, and one member for three years.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.39 OFFICES, FACILITIES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Municipal Planning
Commission shall elect from its members a president and vice-president. It
shall designate a member of the Planning Commission to act as an advisory
member of the County Planning Commission and it may appoint a secretary.
   (B)   The Town Council shall provide the Municipal Planning Commission with
suitable offices and facilities and shall provide by appropriation a sum
sufficient to defray the reasonable expenses of the Planning Commission to
enable it to carry out its duties.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.40 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Municipal Planning Commission shall fix the time for holding
regular meetings, but it shall meet at least once in the months of January,
April, July, and October.
   (B)   The provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 8A-2-7 and 8A-2-8 et seq. shall
govern special meetings and quorums.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.41 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Municipal Planning Commission shall have all powers and perform all
duties provided for in W. Va. Code § 8A-2-11 and such provisions are
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
§ 32.42 WEST VIRGINIA CODE ADOPTED.
   There is included, and incorporated, by reference, into this subchapter
provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 8A, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-21-2024)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
33.01   Town court
   
33.02   Town judge
   
33.03   Maintenance of docket
   
33.04   Issuance of arrest warrants
   
33.05   Issuance of summonses
   
33.06   Issuance of subpoenas
   
33.07   Trial, disposition of cases
   
33.08   Appearance bonds authorized
   
33.09   Imposition, remission of fines and costs
   
33.10   Appeals
   
33.11   Bond amounts, conditions, forms
   
33.12   Disposition, report of fines, costs
   
33.13   Disturbance of proceedings
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 TOWN COURT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a court which shall be called the town
court.
   (B)   The town judge of the town shall preside over said court.
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
§ 33.02 TOWN JUDGE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-10-2 the Mayor may appoint a
qualified person to the office of the town judge. The town judge and town court
shall have jurisdiction, exercise the powers, and perform the duties specified
for mayors, municipal courts, and municipal judges respectively, in W. Va. Code
§§ 8-10-1 and 8-10-2, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-502)
§ 33.03 MAINTENANCE OF DOCKET.
   The town judge shall keep, or cause to be kept, a complete docket of all
matters coming before him or her in his or her judicial capacity. The docket
shall include for each defendant such information as his or her name, warrant
and/or summons numbers, alleged offense, disposition, fines and costs imposed
and whether collected, whether committed to the town or county jail, and all
other information that may be relevant.
(Prior Code, § 1-503)
§ 33.04 ISSUANCE OF ARREST WARRANTS.
   In addition to the town judge, the Mayor and the Town Recorder shall have
the authority as herein set forth to issue warrants for all offenses committed
against this chapter and its amendments hereinafter adopted.
(Prior Code, § 1-504)
§ 33.05 ISSUANCE OF SUMMONSES.
   (A)   When a complaint of an alleged ordinance violation is made to the town
judge or such other official as specified in §
33.04, the judge may in his or her discretion, in lieu of issuing an arrest
warrant, issue a summons, ordering the alleged offender to personally appear
before the town court at a time specified therein to answer to the charges
against him or her.
   (B)   The summons shall contain a brief description of the offense charged
but need not be set out verbatim the provisions of the ordinance alleged to
have been violated.
   (C)   Upon failure of any person to appear before the town court as
commanded in a summons lawfully served onto him or her, the cause may be
proceeded with ex parte, and the judgment of the court shall be valid and
binding subject to the defendant’s right of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1-505)
§ 33.06 ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS.
   The town judge, or those officials as specified in §
33.04, may subpoena as witnesses all persons whose testimony he or she believes
will be relevant and materials to matters coming before his or her court, and
it shall be unlawful for any person lawfully served with such a subpoena to
fail or neglect to comply therewith.
(Prior Code, § 1-506) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 TRIAL, DISPOSITION OF CASES.
   (A)   Every person charged with violating a municipal ordinance shall be
entitled to an immediate trial and disposition of his or her case, provided the
town court is in session or the town judge is reasonably available.
   (B)   However, the provisions of this section shall not apply when the
alleged offender, by reason of drunkeness or other incapacity, is not in a
proper condition or is not able to appear before the court.
(Prior Code, § 1-507)
§ 33.08 APPEARANCE BONDS AUTHORIZED.
   When the town judge is not available or when an alleged offender requests
and has reasonable grounds for a delay in the trial of his or her case, he or
she may, in lieu of remaining in jail pending disposition of his or her case,
be allowed to post an appearance bond with the town judge or, in the absence of
the judge, with the ranking police officer on duty at the time; provided, such
alleged offender is not drunk or otherwise in need of protective custody.
(Prior Code, § 1-508)
§ 33.09 IMPOSITION, REMISSION OF FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   All fines and costs shall be imposed and recorded by the town judge on
the town court docket in open court.
   (B)   After any fine and costs have been imposed and recorded, the town
judge shall have no power to remit or release the same or any part thereof
except when necessary to correct an error.
(Prior Code, § 1-509)
§ 33.10 APPEALS.
   Any defendant who is dissatisfied with any judgment of the town court
against him or her, within the ten days next after such judgment is rendered,
Sundays and legal holidays excepted, may appeal to the next term of the circuit
court upon posting an appeal bond as set forth in §
33.11.
(Prior Code, § 1-510)
Statutory reference:
   State law as to appeals from judgment of a municipal judge, see W. Va. Code
§ 8-34-1
§ 33.11 BOND AMOUNTS, CONDITIONS, FORMS.
   An appearance bond in any case before the town court shall be in such amount
as the town judge shall prescribe and shall be conditioned that the defendant
shall appear for trial before the town court at the stated time and place. An
appeal bond in any case shall be in the sum of $200 and shall be conditioned
that if the circuit court shall find against the appellant the fine and all
costs of the trial and appeal shall be promptly paid by the defendant and/or
his or her sureties. An appearance or appeal bond in any case may be made in
the form of a cash deposit or by any corporate surety company authorized to do
business in the state, or by two private persons who individually own real
property located within the county. No other type bond shall be acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 1-511)
§ 33.12 DISPOSITION, REPORT OF FINES, COSTS.
   All funds coming into the hands of the town judge in the form of fines,
costs, and forfeitures shall be recorded by him or her and paid over daily to
the municipality. At the end of each month, he or she shall submit to the
governing body a report accounting for the collection or non-collection of all
fines and costs imposed by his or her court during the current month and to
date for the current fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-512)
§ 33.13 DISTURBANCE OF PROCEEDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance of any trial
before the town court by making loud or unusual noises, by using indecorous,
profane, or blasphemous language, or by any distracting conduct whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 1-513) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any section of this chapter shall punishable by a fine of not
more than $50 for each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-514)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Chief of Police
   
34.02   Police officers subject to Chief’s orders
   
34.03   Police officers to preserve law and order
   
34.04   When police officers to make arrests
   
34.05   Police officers to make arrests
   
34.06   Police officers may require assistance in making arrests
   
34.07   Disposition of persons arrested
   
34.08   Police Department records
   
34.09   Certification of full-time police personnel
Fire Department
   
34.20   Establishment, equipment, membership
   
34.21   Objectives
   
34.22   Organization, rules, regulations
   
34.23   Records and reports
   
34.24   Tenure, compensation of members
   
34.25   Chief responsible for training
   
34.26   Equipment only to be use inside, outside corporate limits
 
   
34.99   Penalty
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The office of the Chief of Police is hereby established. The Chief of Police
shall be the commanding officer of the Police Department and the Chief of
Police will be under the general direction of the Mayor. The Chief of Police
shall be responsible to the Mayor for the general administration of his or her
Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
§ 34.02 POLICE OFFICERS SUBJECT TO CHIEF’S ORDERS.
   All police officers shall obey and comply with such orders and
administrative rules and regulations as the Police Chief may officially issue.
(Prior Code, § 1-402)
§ 34.03 POLICE OFFICERS TO PRESERVE LAW AND ORDER.
   Police officers shall preserve law and order within the municipality. They
shall patrol the municipality and shall assist the town court during the trial
of cases. Police officers shall also promptly serve any legal process issued by
the town court.
(Prior Code, § 1-403)
§ 34.04 WHEN POLICE OFFICERS TO MAKE ARRESTS.
   All police officers shall wear such uniform and badge as the governing body
shall authorize and shall carry a service pistol at all times while on duty
unless otherwise expressly directed by the Chief for a special assignment.
(Prior Code, § 1-404)
§ 34.05 POLICE OFFICERS TO MAKE ARRESTS.
   Unless otherwise authorized or directed in this code or other applicable
law, an arrest of the person shall be made by a police officer in the following
cases:
   (A)   Whenever he or she is in possession of a warrant for the arrest of the
person;
   (B)   Whenever an offense is committed or a breach of the peace is
threatened in the officer’s presence by the person; and/or
   (C)   Whenever a felony has in fact been committed and the officer has
reasonable cause to believe the person has committed it.
(Prior Code, § 1-405)
§ 34.06 POLICE OFFICERS MAY REQUIRE ASSISTANCE IN MAKING ARRESTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse to aid a police
officer in making a lawful arrest when such person’s assistance is requested by
the police officer and is reasonably necessary to effect the arrest.
(Prior Code, § 1-406) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.07 DISPOSITION OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by law, when any person is arrested for
any offense other than one involving drunkeness he or she shall be brought
before the town court for immediate trial or allowed to post bond.
   (B)   When the arrested person is drunk or when the town judge is not
immediately available or the alleged offender is not able to post the required
bond, he or she shall be confined.
(Prior Code, § 1-407)
§ 34.08 POLICE DEPARTMENT RECORDS.
   The Police Department shall keep a comprehensive and detailed daily record
in permanent form, showing:
   (A)   All known or reported offenses and/or crimes committed within the
corporate limits;
   (B)   All arrests made by police officers; and
   (C)   All police investigations made, fire calls answered, and other
miscellaneous activities of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-408)
§ 34.09 CERTIFICATION OF FULL-TIME POLICE PERSONNEL.
   The town hereby requires all full-time police personnel be certified by the
State Department of Public Safety no later than May 1, 1995, and that any new
full-time officers hired by Council be certified within one year of the date of
employment.
(Res. passed 7-18-1994)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.20 ESTABLISHMENT, EQUIPMENT, MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Fire Department to be supported and
equipped from appropriations by the governing body of the municipality.
   (B)   All apparatus, equipment, and supplies shall be purchased by or
through the municipality and shall be and remain the property of the
municipality. The Fire Department shall be composed of a Chief appointed by the
Mayor and approved by the governing body, and such number of physically-fit
subordinate officers and firefighters as the Chief shall appoint.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 34.21 OBJECTIVES.
   The Fire Department shall have as its objectives:
   (A)   To prevent uncontrolled fires from starting;
   (B)   To prevent the loss of life and property in case a fire does start;
   (C)   To confine a fire to the place of origin;
   (D)   To extinguish uncontrolled fires;
   (E)   To prevent loss of life from asphyxiation or drowning; and
   (F)   To perform such rescue work as its equipment and/or the training of
its personnel makes practicable.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 34.22 ORGANIZATION, RULES, REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall set up the organization of the
Department, make definite assignments to individuals, and shall formulate and
enforce such rules and regulations as shall be necessary for the orderly and
efficient operation of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
§ 34.23 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep adequate records of all fires,
inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel, and work of the Department. He or
she shall submit a written report on such matters to the Mayor once each month,
and at the end of the year a detailed annual report shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 5-204)
§ 34.24 TENURE, COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   The Chief shall hold office so long as his or her conduct and efficiency are
satisfactory to the Mayor. However, so that adequate discipline may be
maintained, the Chief shall have the authority to suspend or discharge any
other member of the Fire Department when he or her deems such action to be
necessary for the good of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
§ 34.25 CHIEF RESPONSIBLE FOR TRAINING.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be fully responsible for the training
of the firefighters, and the minimum training shall consist of having the
personnel take the fire apparatus out for practice operations not less than
once a month.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
§ 34.26 EQUIPMENT ONLY TO BE USE INSIDE, OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Equipment of the Fire Department shall be used for fighting any fire outside
the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of any section of §§
34.01 through
34.09 shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for each separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-409)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Hotel taxes
   
35.02   Head tax; dogs
Business and Occupation Taxes
   
35.15   Short title; purpose and intent
   
35.16   Definitions
   
35.17   Imposition of tax
   
35.18   Natural resource production
   
35.19   Manufacturing
   
35.20   Selling tangible property
   
35.21   Public service or utility business
   
35.22   Contracting
   
35.23   Amusements
   
35.24   Service business or calling not otherwise classified
   
35.25   Rentals and royalties
   
35.26   Banking and other financial businesses
   
35.27   Health maintenance organizations
   
35.28   Quarterly credit
   
35.29   Additional credits
   
35.30   Exempt activities
   
35.31   Tax cumulative
   
35.32   Administration generally
   
35.33   Returns; computation and payment of tax
   
35.34   Taxpayer records
   
35.35   Tax return information confidentiality
   
35.36   Erroneous computation of tax
   
35.37   Investigations
   
35.38   Assessments
   
35.39   Notice of assessment; petition for reassessment
   
35.40   Hearing procedure; decision; review
   
35.41   Injunction
   
35.42   Unpaid tax a lien; delinquency notice filing and release
   
35.43   Successor liability
   
35.44   Revocation; non-renewal of licenses and permits
   
35.45   Settlement agreements and compromises
   
35.46   Additional administrative provisions concerning contracting
   
35.47   Claims for refund or credit
   
35.48   Interest and penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tax on sale of alcohol, see §
111.01
   Town’s policy on tax security for employees and officers of the town, see §
31.010
§ 35.02 HOTEL TAXES.
   A privilege tax on the occupancy of hotel rooms within the corporate limits
of the town is hereby imposed at a rate of 6%.
(Ord. passed - -2017)
§ 35.03 HEAD TAX; DOGS.
   (A)   The Assessor and his or her deputies, at the time they are seeking the
assessment of personal property, must assess and collect a head tax of $3 on
each male and female dog above the age of six months found within their
jurisdiction. Any such head tax on dags as may be levied by the ordinances of
each municipality within the county must also be collected. The rate shall be:
      (1)   County: $3; and
      (2)   Municipality: $3.
   (B)   In the event that the owner, keeper, or person having in his or her
possession, or allowing to remain on any premises under his control, any dog
above the age of six months, fails or refuses to pay such tax when the same is
assessed, or within 15 days thereafter, to the Assessor or Deputy Assessor,
then the Assessor or Deputy Assessor must certify such tax to the County Dog
Warden or, if there be no County Dog Warden, to the County Sheriff, who shall
take charge of the dog for which the tax is delinquent and impound the same for
a period of 15 days. For this service, he or she shall be allowed a fee of
$1.50 to be charged against the delinquent taxpayer in addition to the taxes
herein provided for.
   (C)   In case the tax and impounding charge are not paid within the period
of 15 days, the County Sheriff may sell or kill such dog.
   (D)   In addition to the head tax on dogs, the owner of any dog, regardless
of age, must place a value on the dog and have it assessed as other personal
property is assessed.
(Ord. passed - -)
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 35.15 SHORT TITLE; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Short title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Gilbert Municipal
Business and Occupation Tax Ordinance.”
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to impose a
municipal business and occupation tax pursuant to W. Va. Code § 8-13-5 to the
fullest extent allowable under the operative laws of the state and the United
States unless a more restrictive application is required by an express
limitation set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANKING BUSINESS or FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION. Any bank, banking association,
trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company, or licensee,
building, and loan association, savings and loan association, credit union,
finance company, investment company, investment broker or dealer, and any other
similar business organization in which at least 90% of the assets of which
consists of intangible personal property and at least 90% of the gross receipts
of which consists of dividends, interest, and other charges derived from the
use of money or credit.
   BUSINESS. All activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in with the
object of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect. The production
of raw materials or manufactured products which are used or consumed in the
main business shall be deemed a BUSINESS engaged in taxable in the class for
which it falls.
   CONTRACTING. The furnishing of work, or both materials and work, in the
fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration, repair, decoration,
or improvement of a new or existing building or structure, or any part thereof,
or for the alteration, improvement, or development of real property.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of the taxpayer, other than a banking or
financial business, received as compensation for personal services and the
gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from hade, business, commerce, or sales
and the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible property, real
or personal, or service, or both, and all receipts by reason of the investment
of the capital of the business engaged in, including interest, discount,
rentals, royalties, fees, reimbursed costs, or expenses or other emoluments
however designated and without any deductions on account of the cost of
property sold, the cost of materials used, labor costs, taxes, royalties,
interest, and discount paid, or sums paid to independent contractors,
subcontractors, or persons furnishing services or property used in the
operation of any business to produce gross income, or any other expense
whatsoever. GROSS INCOME of a banking or financial business is specified in §
35.26.
   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES. The value actually proceeding from the sale of
tangible property without any deduction on account of the cost of property sold
or expenses of any kind. The words “gross income” and GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES
shall not be construed to include cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
the proceeds of sale of goods, wares, or merchandise returned by customers when
the sale price is refunded either in cash or by credit; or the sale price of
any article accepted as part payment on any new article sold, if the full sale
price of the new article is included in the gross income or GROSS PROCEEDS OF
SALES; excise taxes imposed by the state; money or other property received or
held by a professional person for the sole use and benefit of a client or
another person or money received by the taxpayer on behalf of a bank or other
financial institution for repayment of a debt of another; and excise taxes
imposed by the federal government upon the consumer, not manufacturer, and
which are held in trust by the vendor as agent for the federal government.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Gilbert.
   OFFICIAL. The municipality’s Town Recorder, and his or her agents,
delegates, or representatives.
   PERSON or COMPANY. Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, joint
adventure, association, corporation, limited liability company, trust, estate,
or any other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as
the singular number. The word “it” shall also include the pronouns “he” and
“she”.
   RETAIL SALES or SELLING AT RETAIL. All sales other than wholesale sales,
including, but not limited to, sales to persons for use in any activity not
subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter, all sales of real property, and
sales to consumers.
   SALE(S). Any transfer of the ownership of or title to property, whether for
money or in exchange for other property.
   SERVICES, BUSINESS, or CALLING. Includes all activities engaged in for other
persons for a consideration, which involve the rendering of a service as
distinguished from the production or sale of tangible property, but shall not
include the services rendered by an employee to his or her employer.
   TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. Either the calendar year or the taxpayer’s fiscal
year when permission is obtained in writing from the Town Recorder to use such
fiscal year in lieu of the calendar year.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax hereunder.
   WHOLESALE SALES or SELLING AT WHOLESALE. Only sales of tangible personal
property for the purpose of resale in the form of tangible personal property;
sales of machinery, supplies, or materials which are to be directly consumed by
the purchaser in the conduct of any business or activity which is subject to
the tax imposed by this subchapter; or sales of tangible personal property to
the United States, its agencies and instrumentalities, or to the state, its
institutions, and political subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.17 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   There are hereby levied and imposed and shall be collected annual
privilege taxes, against the persons, on account of the business and other
activities and in the amounts to be determined by the application of rates
against values or gross income or gross proceeds as set forth in §§
35.18 through
35.27 inclusive.
   (B)   If any person liable for any tax under §§
35.18 or
35.19 shall ship or transport its products, or any part thereof, out of the
municipality without making sale of such products, the value of the products in
the condition or form in which they exist immediately before transportation out
of the municipality shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax imposed in
those sections. Gross income included in the measure of the tax under §§
35.18 or
35.19 shall neither be added nor deducted in computing the tax levied under the
other sections of this subchapter. In determining value, however, as regards
sales from one to another of affiliated companies or persons, or under other
circumstances where the relation between the buyer and the seller is such that
the gross proceeds from the sale are not indicative of the hue value of the
subject matter of the sale, the value upon which such privilege tax shall be
levied shall correspond as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the
sale of similar products of like quality or character where no common interest
exists between the buyer and the seller but where the circumstances or
conditions are otherwise similar.
   (C)   (1)   The municipal business and occupation tax is imposed on each
person engaged in privileges taxable under this subchapter if such person is
engaged in purposive revenue generating activities within the municipality’s
limits and such person has sufficient contacts to sustain the municipality’s
taxing jurisdiction.
      (2)   By way of example (but not limitation), if a person’s activities
within the municipality contributes to the establishment and maintenance of a
market, such contacts are considered to be sufficient to sustain the
municipality’s taxing jurisdiction assuming federal constitutional nexus
standards are satisfied.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.18 NATURAL RESOURCE PRODUCTION.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in
the business of severing, extracting, mining, quarrying, reducing to possession
and/or producing for sale, profit or commercial use any natural resource
products, the amount of such tax shall be equal of the value of the articles
produced as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer, except as hereinafter provided, multiplied by the respective rates as
follows:
      (1)   Coal: 0.05%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall be 0.05%; provided further, that beginning July 1,
2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.06%;
      (2)   Sand/gravel: 1.10%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall
be 1.15%; provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the
rate shall be 1.20%;
      (3)   Oil slag, 1.10%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall be 1.15%; provided further, that beginning July 1,
2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 1.20%;
      (4)   Natural gas: 0.68%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate
shall be 0.68%; provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter
the rate shall be 0.68%;
      (5)   Limestone or sandstone quarried or mined: 0.68%; provided, that
beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.70%; provided
further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.75%;
and
      (6)   Timber, 0.68%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall be 0.70%; provided further, that beginning July 1,
2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.75%.
   (B)   The measure of this tax is the value of the entire production in the
municipality, regardless of the place of sale or the fact that delivery may be
made to points outside the municipality.
   (C)   A person exercising privileges taxable under this section and using or
consuming the natural resources so produced in his business or transferring or
delivering the natural resources as any royalty paid, in kind, or the like,
shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of producing natural resources
and shall be required to make returns on account of the production of the
business, showing the gross proceeds or equivalent in accordance with uniform
and equitable rules for determining the value upon which privilege taxes shall
be levied, corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the
sale of similar products of like quality or character by other taxpayers.
   (D)   (1)   Persons who produce natural resources outside the municipality
and who make sale of those products within the municipality shall not pay the
tax imposed by this section but shall pay the tax imposed by §
35.20 for the privilege of selling such products within the municipality.
      (2)   A person exercising any privilege taxable under this section and
engaging in the business of selling its natural resource products in the
municipality shall be required to make returns of the gross proceeds of such
sales and pay the tax imposed in §
35.20 for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling such natural
resource products in the municipality.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.19 MANUFACTURING.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in
the business of manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit, or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others, in whole or
part, any article or articles, substance or substances, commodity or
commodities, or newspaper publishing (including all gross income or proceeds of
sale from circulation and advertising), the amount of the tax shall be equal to
the value of the article, substance, commodity, or newspaper manufactured,
compounded, or prepared for sale, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from
the sale thereof by the manufacturer or person compounding or preparing the
same, except as otherwise provided, multiplied by a rate of 0.13%; provided,
that beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.15%;
provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be
0.16%.
   (B)   (1)   The measure of the tax in this section is the value of the
entire product manufactured, compounded, or prepared in the municipality for
sale, profit, or commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or the fact
that deliveries may be made to points outside the municipality.
      (2)   It is further provided, however, that in those instances in which
the same person partially manufactures, compounds, or prepares products within
the municipality and partially manufactures, compounds, or prepares such
products outside the municipality, the measure of tax under this section shall
be that proportion of the sales price of the product that the payroll costs of
manufacturing within the municipality bears to the entire payroll costs of
manufacturing the product.
   (B)   If any person shall ship or transport its products or any part thereof
out of the state without making sale of such products, the value of the
products in the condition or form in which they exist immediately before
transportation out of the state shall be the basis for the assessment of the
tax imposed. The Town Recorder may prescribe equitable and uniform rules of
ascertaining such value; provided that, in the absence of such rules, the
person manufacturing the products within the municipality shall report the
value in a consistent and reasonable manner.
   (C)   The dressing and processing of food intended for human consumption by
a person, or the cooking and serving of food by a restaurant which food is to
be sold in the municipality by such person, shall not be considered
manufacturing or compounding or preparing for sale, but the sale of these
products shall be reported under §
35.20 either as wholesale or retail sale, as the case may be.
   (D)   Persons who manufacture, compound or prepare products outside the
municipality and who make sale of such product within the municipality shall
not pay the tax imposed by this section but shall pay tax imposed by §
35.20 for the privilege of selling such product within the municipality.
   (E)   A person exercising any privilege taxable under this section and
engaging in the business of selling its product in the municipality shall be
required to make returns of the gross proceeds of such sales and pay the tax
imposed by this section at the rate set forth in §
35.20 for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling such
manufactured goods in the municipality.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.20 SELLING TANGIBLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in
the business of selling any tangible property whatsoever, real or personal,
including the sale of food in hotels, restaurants, cafeterias, confectioneries
and other public eating houses and wholesale sales from a rolling stockpile,
except sales of any person engaging or continuing in the business of
horticulture, agriculture, or glazing, or selling stocks, bonds, or other
evidence of indebtedness, there is hereby levied, and shall be collected, a tax
equal to 0.018%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the
rate shall be 0.19%; provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and
thereafter the rate shall be 0.20% of the gross income of the business; except,
therein the case of selling at wholesale, the tax shall be equal to 0.07%;
provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall be
0.74%; provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate
shall be 0.77% of the gross income of the business.
   (B)   Gross income or gross proceeds of sales derived from sales within the
state that is not taxed or taxable by any other municipality are included in
the measure of municipal business and occupation tax if the sales are either
directed from a location within the municipality or the taxpayer’s principal
state office is located in the municipality. Without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, when the taxpayer has only one office location and this office
is located within the municipality and its activities elsewhere in the state
are neither taxed nor taxable by another municipality, the gross income or
gross proceeds from those activities are taxable by this municipality.
   (C)   Persons domiciled outside the municipality who solicit sales within
the municipality and sell tangible personal property within the municipality
are doing business in the municipality, irrespective of the domicile of such
persons and irrespective of whether or not such persons maintain a permanent
place of business in the municipality and irrespective of how a sales order is
transmitted or processed. If an order is placed in connection with solicitation
by a representative (regardless whether there is an employment or agency
relationship or whether acting as an independent contractor) who solicits
orders within the municipality, and the tangible personal property is to be
delivered in the municipality, then the gross proceeds of such sales are
included in the measure of the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.21 PUBLIC SERVICE OR UTILITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in
any public service or utility business, except railroad, railroad car, express,
pipeline, telephone and telegraph companies, water earners by steamboat or
steamship and motor carrier’s, there is levied, and shall be collected, taxes
on account of the business engaged in equal to the gross income of the business
multiplied by the respective rates as follows:
      (1)   Water companies: 2%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall be 2%; provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008,
and thereafter the rate shall be 2%;
      (2)   Electric light and power companies: 2.70%; provided, that beginning
October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall be two and 2.70%; provided
further, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 2.70%;
      (3)   Other electric: 2.15%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007,
and thereafter the rate shall be 2.15%; further provided, that beginning July
1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 2.15%;
      (4)   Natural gas: 2.15%; provided, that beginning October l, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall be 2.15%; further provided, that beginning July 1,
2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 2.15%;
      (5)   Toll bridge: 0%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and
thereafter the rate shall be 0%; provided further, that beginning July 1, 2008,
and thereafter the rate shall be 0%; and
      (6)   Other utilities: 1.45%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007,
and thereafter the rate shall be 1.45%; further provided, that beginning July
1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 1.45%.
   (B)   The measure of this tax shall not include gross income derived from
commerce between the state and other states of the United States. The measure
of the tax under this section shall include only gross income received from the
supplying of public service. The gross income of the taxpayer from any other
activity shall be included in the measure of the tax imposed upon such other
activity by the appropriate section of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.22 CONTRACTING.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in the
business of contracting, the tax shall be equal to 0.69%; provided, that
beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.72%; further
provided, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.76%.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.23 AMUSEMENTS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in the
business of operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville,
amusement park, carnival, circus, dance hall skating rink, racetrack, radio
broadcasting station, or any other place al which amusements are offered to the
public, the tax shall be equal to 0.20%; provided, that beginning October 1,
2007, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.21%; further provided, that beginning
July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.22% of the gross income of the
business.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.24 SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING NOT OTHERWISE CLASSIFIED.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in
any service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this
subchapter, there is hereby levied, and shall be collected, a tax equal to
0.35%, Provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall
be 0.37%; further provided, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the
rate shall be 0.39% of the gross income of any such business.
   (B)   Gross income or gross proceeds of sales derived from services within
the state that is not taxed or taxable by any other municipality are included
in the measure of tax under this subchapter if the services are either directed
from a location in the municipality or the taxpayer’s principal state office is
located in the municipality. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
when a taxpayer has only one office location and this office is located within
the municipality and its activities elsewhere in the state are neither taxed
nor taxable by another municipality, the gross income or gross proceeds from
those activities are taxable by this municipality.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.25 RENTALS AND ROYALTIES.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in the
business of furnishing 23 any real or tangible personal property which has a
tax situs in the municipality, or any interest therein, for hire, loan, lease
or otherwise, whether the return is in the form of rentals, royalties, fees, or
otherwise, the tax shall be 0.35%; provided, that beginning October 1, 2007,
and thereafter the rate shall be 0.37%; further provided, that beginning July
1, 2008, and thereafter the rate shall be 0.39% of the gross income of any such
activity. The term “tangible personal property”, as used herein, shall not
include money or public securities.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.26 BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the municipality in
the business of banking or financial business, the tax shall be equal to 0.35%;
provided, that beginning October 1, 2007, and thereafter the rate shall be
0.37%; further provided, that beginning July 1, 2008, and thereafter the rate
shall be 0.39% of the gross income received from interest, premiums, discounts,
dividends, service fees or charges, commissions, fines, rents from real or
tangible personal property, however denominated, royalties, charges for
bookkeeping or data processing, receipts from check sales, charges or fees, and
receipts from the sale of tangible personal property; provided, that gross
income shall not include:
      (1)   Interest received on the obligations of the United States, its
agencies, and instrumentalities;
      (2)   Interest received on the obligations of this or any other state,
territory, or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision of
any of the foregoing or of the District of Columbia; or
      (3)   Interest received on investments or loans primarily secured by
first mortgages or deeds of trust on residential property occupied by
nontransients.
   (B)   Provided further, that all interest derived on activities exempt under
(A)(3) above shall be reported, as to amounts, on the return of a person
taxable under the provision of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.27 HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS.
   [Reserved for future use.]
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.28 QUARTERLY CREDIT.
   There shall be allowed a quarterly exemption in every case of $_____ in
amount of tax computed under the provisions of this subchapter. A person
exercising a privilege taxable hereunder for a fractional part of a quarter
shall be entitled to an exemption of the sum bearing the proportion to $_____
that the period of time the privilege is exercised bears to a whole quarter.
Only one exemption shall be allowed to any one person, regardless whether that
person exercises one or more privileges taxable hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.29 ADDITIONAL CREDITS.
   (A)   A person taxable under §
35.20 with respect to selling products at wholesale in this municipality shall
be allowed a non-refundable credit against the tax imposed on such wholesale
sales pursuant to §
35.20 for any:
      (1)   Manufacturing taxes paid by such person with respect to the
manufacturing of products so sold at wholesale in this municipality; and/or
      (2)   Extracting taxes paid by such person with respect to the extracting
of products so sold in this municipality or ingredients of products so sold at
wholesale in this municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXTRACTING TAX. A gross receipts tax imposed by a municipality or other
local government unit on the act or privilege of engaging in the business as a
producer of natural resource products and includes the tax imposed in §
35.18 and similar gross receipts taxes paid to other municipalities or other
local government units within the United States (other than state governments)
within the United States.
      GROSS RECEIPTS TAX. A tax which is imposed on or measured by the gross
volume of business in terms of gross receipts or in other terms and in the
determination of which deductions allowed would not constitute the tax an
income tax or value added tax, and which is not, pursuant to law or custom,
separately stated from the sales price.
      MANUFACTURING TAX. A gross receipts tax imposed by a municipality or
other local government unit on the act or privilege of engaging in the business
as a manufacturer and includes the tax imposed in §
35.19 and similar gross receipts taxes paid to other municipalities or other
local government units (other than state governments) within the United States.
   (C)   If imposition of the municipality’s tax would place an undue burden
upon interstate commerce or violate constitutional requirements, a taxpayer
shall be allowed a credit to the extent necessary to preserve the validity of
the tax under this subchapter, and still apply the tax to as much of the
taxpayer’s activities as may be subject to the municipality’s taxing authority.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.30 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Insurance companies which pay the state a tax upon premiums; provided,
that such exemption shall not extend to that part of gross income of insurance
companies which is received for the use of real property, other than property
in which any such company maintains its office or offices, in the municipality,
whether such income is in the form of rentals or royalties;
   (B)   Nonprofit cemetery companies organized and operated for the exclusive
benefit of their members;
   (C)   Fraternal societies, organizations, and associations organized and
operated for the exclusive benefit of their members and not for profit;
provided, that this exemption shall not extend to that part of gross income
arising from the sale of alcoholic liquor, food, and related services of such
fraternal societies, organizations, and associations which are licensed as
private clubs under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq.;
   (D)   Corporations, associations, and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious or charitable purposes;
   (E)   Production credit associations, organized under the provisions of the
federal Farm Credit Act of 1933; provided, that the exemption of this section
shall not apply to corporations or cooperative associations organized under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 19-4-1 et seq.;
   (F)   Any credit union organized under the West Virginia Code; provided,
that the exemptions of this section shall not apply to corporations or
cooperative associations organized under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 19-4-
1 et seq.; and
   (G)   Gross income derived from advertising service rendered in the business
of radio and television broadcasting.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.31 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The tax, interest, and penalty imposed by this subchapter shall be in
addition to all other licenses, taxes, and other revenue measures levied or
collected by the municipality as a condition precedent to the right of any
person to engage or continue in any business, profession, trade, calling, or
other activity within this municipality. A person exercising a privilege
taxable under this subchapter, subject to the payment of all licenses and
charges which are conditions precedent to exercising the privileges taxed, may
exercise the privilege in this municipality for the tax year upon the condition
that he or she shall pay the tax, interest, and penalty imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.32 ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY.
   The administration of this subchapter is vested in and shall be exercised by
the Town Recorder, who shall prescribe forms and may promulgate from time to
time reasonable rules, publications, and instructions for the making of
returns, and for ascertaining, assessment, collection, and administration of
tax, interest, and penalty imposed hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.33 RETURNS; COMPUTATION AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax levied by this subchapter shall be due and payable in
quarterly installments on or before the expiration of one month from the end of
the calendar quarter in which they accrue. The taxpayer shall, within one month
from the expiration of each quarter, make a return reporting the computation of
tax for which it is liable for each quarter, sign and mail the completed
return, together with any remittance to the location specified by the Town
Recorder. In reporting and remitting the amount of the tax, interest, and
penalties due for each quarter, the taxpayer may deduct the quarterly credit
allowed by §
35.28. The Town Recorder may allow return and payment under this section for
periods other than quarterly periods.
   (B)   On or before 31 days after the end of the tax year, each person liable
for the payment of tax under this subchapter shall make a fourth quarter
return, showing the gross proceeds of sale or gross income of business, trade,
calling, or activity, computing the amount of tax, interest, and penalty
chargeable against the person in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter and transmit with the return a remittance in the sum required by
this subchapter, covering the remainder of the tax, interest, and penalty
chargeable against the person for the tax year, to such location or locations
specified by the Town Recorder. Such returns shall be verified by the oath of
the taxpayer, if made by an individual, or by the individual designated by a
taxpayer that is an entity to take the oath on behalf of the taxpayer. All
remittances and payments of tax, interest, and penalty imposed by this
subchapter shall be made to the Town Recorder, in lawful money of the United
States or by bank draft, certified check, cashier’s check, or other
commercially acceptable means specified by the Town Recorder, to be kept,
deposited, and accounted for as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.34 TAXPAYER RECORDS.
   Each person subject to this subchapter shall maintain sufficient records for
review by the Town Recorder as long as the contents of such records may be
material in the administration of tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.35 TAX RETURN INFORMATION CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Except when required in an investigation or proceeding to ascertain or
collect amount of tax, interest, penalty, refund, or credit due, or pursuant to
an exemption in W. Va. Code § 11 -10-5d, it shall be unlawful for any officer,
employee, or agent of the municipality to divulge or make known in any manner
the tax return, or any part thereof, of any person, or disclose information
concerning the personal affairs of any individual or the business of any
person, or disclose the amount of income or any particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report, declaration, or return required to be filed with the
Town Recorder or otherwise obtained by the municipality in an investigation
undertaken by the Town Recorder concerning the tax imposed by this subchapter.
Any person protected by the provisions of this subchapter may, in writing,
waive the confidentiality provisions of this section for such purpose and such
period as he or she shall therein state. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the publication or release of statistics so classified as to prevent
the identification of particular reports and the items thereof.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Recorder may permit the proper
officer, or his or her authorized representative or agent, of the United States
or the state, or any political subdivision of the state, to inspect return
information to or may furnish to such officer or representative a copy of any
such return or any other tax return information; provided, that such other
jurisdiction grants similar privileges to this municipality or if the other
jurisdiction is a party of an intergovernmental agreement authorizing the
exchange of such information.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.36 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION OF TAX.
   If any taxpayer shall make any error in computing the tax, interest, and
penalty under this subchapter, the Town Recorder shall correct such error or
reassess the proper amount of tax, interest, and penalty, and notify the
taxpayer of his or her action by mailing the taxpayer promptly a copy of the
corrected assessment, and any additional tax, interest, and penalty for which
such taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within 15 days after the receipt of
such statement. If the amount already paid exceeds that which should have been
paid on the basis of the tax so recomputed, the excess so paid shall be
immediately refunded to the taxpayer upon the request of the Town Recorder and
shall be payable out of any hinds available for the purpose. The taxpayer may,
at its election, apply an overpayment as credit upon tax subsequently accruing
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.37 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of a tax return,
claim, or assessment or for the purpose of making an estimate of any taxpayer’s
liability for the tax administered under this subchapter, the Town Recorder
shall have the power to examine or cause to be examined any books, papers,
records, memoranda and other documents or data bearing upon the matters
required to be included in the return and may require the attendance of the
person rendering the return or the attendance of any other person having
knowledge of relevant matters. In connection therewith, the Town Recorder may
take testimony and shall have the power to administer oaths.
   (B)   The Town Recorder has the power to issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces
tecum to compel the attendance of witnesses and production of documents for the
purpose of ascertaining the correctness of a return or claim or for performing
an assessment or for any hearing held by the Town Recorder. In case of the
failure or refusal of a witness to appear and testify or to produce evidence,
the Town Recorder may invoke the aid of the County Circuit Court. Upon proper
showing, the Town Recorder may apply for an order requiring the witness to
appear and give testimony and produce evidence concerning the matter in
question.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.38 ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any person who is required by this subchapter to do so shall fail
or refuse to make a return, either in whole or part, or if the Town Recorder
believes the tax imposed by this subchapter has been insufficiently returned by
any taxpayer, the Town Recorder may proceed to assess the tax and shall notify
the person assessed of the amount of the tax, additional tax, interest, and
penalties so assessed.
   (B)   The Town Recorder may, at any time before the assessment becomes
final, amend, in whole or in part, any assessment whenever the Town Recorder
ascertains that such assessment is improper or incomplete in any material
respect. The Town Recorder may, at any time within the period prescribed for
assessment is incorrect in any material respect.
   (C)   The amount of tax, interest, and penalties imposed by this subchapter
shall be assessed within three years after the date the fourth quarter return
for the year in which such tax arose is filed by the taxpayer; provided, that
in the case of a false or fraudulent return filed with the intent to evade the
tax or in case no return is filed, an assessment may be made at any time.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.39 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; PETITION FOR REASSESSMENT.
   The Town Recorder shall give the taxpayer written notice of any assessment
made pursuant to this subchapter. Unless die taxpayer to whom the notice of
assessment is given shall within 30 days after service thereof file with the
Town Recorder a petition for reassessment, the assessment shall become final
and not subject to administrative or judicial review. A petition for
reassessment must be in writing verified under oath by the taxpayer or his duly
authorized agent having knowledge of the facts, setting forth with
particularity the items of the assessment objected to, together with the
reasons for the objections. The total amount of an assessment shall be due and
payable on the day following the date upon which the assessment becomes final.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.40 HEARING PROCEDURE; DECISION; REVIEW.
   (A)   When a petition for reassessment or a petition for refund or credit is
properly filed pursuant to this subchapter within the time prescribed for such
filing, the Town Recorder shall assign a time and a place for a hearing thereon
and shall notify the petitioner of such hearing by written notice at least 20
days in advance thereof. Such hearing shall be held within 90 days from the
date of filing the petition, unless continued by agreement of the parties or by
the Town Recorder for sufficient cause.
   (B)   The hearing shall be informal and shall be conducted in an impartial
manner by the Town Recorder or a hearing examiner designated by the Town
Recorder. The burden of proof shall be upon the taxpayer to show that the
assessment or denial refund or credit is incorrect and contrary to law, in
whole or in part.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Town Recorder shall, within a reasonable time,
give notice in writing to the taxpayer of the Town Recorder’s decision.
   (D)   An appeal may be taken by the taxpayer to the County Circuit Court
within 60 days after service of the Town Recorder’s administrative decision
issued pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.41 INJUNCTION.
   After any delinquency shall have continued 60 days, the Town Recorder may
proceed in the County Circuit Court to obtain an injunction restraining the
further exercise of the privilege until full payment shall have been made of
all tax, interest, and penalty due under this article. In any proceeding under
this section, upon judgment or decree for the municipality, the municipality
shall be awarded its costs.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.42 UNPAID TAX A LIEN; DELINQUENCY NOTICE FILING AND RELEASE.
   Any tax, interest, and penalties due and payable under this subchapter shall
be a debt due the municipality and shall constitute a lien on the real and
personal property of the taxpayer. The Town Recorder, for the more effective
collection of the tax, interest, and penalty imposed by this subchapter, may
file with the Clerk of the County Commission a certified notice of lien for
delinquent taxes, interest, and penalty under this subchapter for recording. If
a lien has been recorded respecting a delinquency, upon full payment of all
delinquent tax, interest, and penalty, the Town Recorder shall attest to the
fact and amount of payment, and shall forward a certificate of release to the
taxpayer. Upon presentment and payment of the recording fee by the taxpayer,
the Clerk of the County Commission shall record such certificate in the book in
which releases are recorded.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.43 SUCCESSOR LIABILITY.
   The tax, interest, and penalty imposed by this subchapter shall be a
continuing lien upon the property of any person subject to the provisions
hereof who shall sell out its business or stock of goods, or shall quit
business, and such person shall be required to make the return provided for in
this subchapter within 30 days after the date it sold out its business or stock
of goods, or quit business, and its successor in business shall be required to
withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase money to cover the amount of such
tax, interest, and penalty due and unpaid until such time as the former owner
shall produce a receipt from the Town Recorder showing that all tax, interest,
and penalty has been paid. If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods
fails to withhold purchase money as hereby provided, and the tax, interest, and
penalty shall be due and unpaid after the 30-day period allowed, the successor
shall be personally liable for the payment of the tax, interest, and penalty
accrued and unpaid on account of the operation of the business by the former
owner.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.44 REVOCATION; NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The Town Recorder has the authority to revoke, deny, and prevent any
and all licenses and permits issued by the municipality in the event a licensee
or permitted fails or refuses to file any return required hereby or fails or
refuses to pay any delinquent tax, interest, or penalty due and owing to the
municipality.
   (B)   In the event of such a revocation or denial, the Town Recorder will
provide written notice to the affected person at least five days prior to the
contemplated revocation or denial and such notice shall be served by certified
mail. The notice shall indicate the time and the place of a revocation/denial
review meeting, the general grounds of said contemplated action, and shall
advise the affected person of its rights to appear at said hearing in person
and represented by legal counsel, and to be heard orally upon the merits of the
person’s defense. The Town Recorder may request legal advice from the Town
Attorney, and adopt such procedures for its decorum and the dispatch of
business at such hearings as the Town Recorder may regard advisable. The
revocation decision of the Town Recorder will be final. Each license or permit
that has been revoked or denied pursuant to this section may be issued or re-
issued upon payment of all delinquent tax, interest, or penalty due and owing
to the municipality and satisfaction of all relevant licensing conditions
otherwise imposed by the municipality.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.45 SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS AND COMPROMISES.
   The Town Recorder, with approval of the Mayor or Town Manager, is authorized
to enter into an agreement in writing with any person relating to the liability
of such person in respect of the tax, interest, and penalty imposed by this
subchapter for any taxable period. If such a closing agreement is duly made and
entered into, such agreement shall be final and conclusive for the periods
covered except upon a showing of fraud, malfeasance, or misrepresentation of a
material fact. The Town Recorder, with approval of the Mayor or Town Manager,
may compromise all or part of any administrative determination or civil case
concerning tax, interest, and penalty or otherwise arising under the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.46 ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS CONCERNING CONTRACTING.
   (A)   Without limiting the generality of the administrative and collection
powers granted to the Town Recorder in this subchapter, the Town Recorder is
also empowered to require any person engaging or continuing within the
municipality in the business of contracting to furnish a list of the names,
addresses and amounts paid by them to any subcontractors employed and suppliers
of materials used upon any job or to do any work within the municipality. The
Town Recorder may also require every person engaging or continuing within the
municipality in the business of contracting who is a nonresident of the state
to pay or guarantee the payment of the amount of the tax imposed by this
subchapter for the privilege of engaging in the business of contracting within
the municipality, such payment of such tax to be based upon the amount of the
building permit issued by the municipality for the work to be performed by such
person, as a condition precedent to the issuance of such building permit. In
lieu of such prior payment in cash of such tax any such nonresident may
guarantee the payment of such privilege tax provided for herein by delivering
to the municipality a bond, with good and adequate surety, payable to the
municipality, and conditioned to pay such tax on or before the estimated date
of the completion of the work to be performed by such person within the
municipality.
   (B)   Any person engaging a contractor or subcontractor within this
municipality shall withhold payment in sufficient amount to cover taxes
assessed by this subchapter in the final settlement of such contracts until the
receipt of a certificate from the Town Recorder to the effect that all taxes
levied and accrued under this subchapter against the contractor have been paid.
If any person fails to withhold as provided herein and the contractor or
subcontractor fails to timely pay such tax, such person shall be personally
liable for the payment of such taxes, and the same shall be recoverable by the
Town Recorder by appropriate legal proceedings.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.47 CLAIMS FOR REFUND OR CREDIT.
   (A)   Any taxpayer claiming to have overpaid any tax, interest, or penalty
imposed by this subchapter shall file its claim with the Town Recorder within
three years after the due date of the return in respect of which the tax was
imposed, and not thereafter.
   (B)   If, as a result of the claim, the Town Recorder shall be of the
opinion that the tax, interest, or penalty, or any part thereof, was overpaid,
the Town Recorder shall refund the same to the taxpayer. If the Town Recorder
denies the claim, the taxpayer may within 30 days after notice of denial file
with the Town Recorder a petition for refund or credit, which shall be heard in
accordance with §
35.40. A taxpayer’s failure to abide by express procedures contained in this
section precludes taxpayer’s right to any refund or credit of tax, interest,
and penalties paid or collected under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
§ 35.48 INTEREST AND PENALTY.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter, if not paid when due, shall bear
interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the due date of the payment until
paid.
   (B)   If any person fails to make the return or any quarterly installment
required by this subchapter, or makes its return but fails to remit, in whole
or in part, the proper amount of tax, there shall be added to the amount of tax
unpaid, from the date such tax should have been paid, a penalty in the amount
of 5% of the tax for the first month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency, and
1% of the tax for each succeeding month, or fraction thereof of delinquency
provided, that if such failure is due to reasonable cause, the Town Recorder
may waive, in whole or in part, these penalties. Additionally, if the failure
to pay is due to fraud or intent to evade any such tax there shall be added an
additional penalty of 25% of the tax owed, exclusive of penalties. Interest and
penalties maybe collected in the same manner as the tax imposed by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   GREASE TRAPS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
Utility Board
   
50.01   Creation
   
50.02   Membership
   
50.03   Administration
UTILITY BOARD
§ 50.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby enacted and created the Town Utility Board to
supervise and control the town’s waterworks and sewage systems.
   (B)   The Town Utility Board shall have all authority in the supervision and
control of the systems as given by the laws of the state of the state and this
subchapter, including the power and authority to acquire, construct, establish,
extend, equip, repair, maintain, and operate the systems, and to construct,
maintain, and operate additions, extensions, betterments, and improvements
thereto, to supervise and control the construction and acquisition of such
additions, extensions, and improvements, and to do any and all things necessary
to collect the revenues generated from the services provided from said systems.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009)
§ 50.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Town Utility Board shall consist of seven members, one of whom
will be the Mayor of the town and the rest appointed by Town Council. All
members of the Board shall be residents and citizens of the town. No employee
of the town shall be eligible to be a member of the Board.
   (B)   The appointed Utility Board member’s terms shall be for four years,
unless earlier revoked by majority vote of Town Council pursuant to the
provision contained herein. Any vacancy in an appointed member’s office shall
be filled by Town Council for the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall serve as Chairperson of the Utility Board. The Board
shall organize promptly after the first appointments and annually thereafter at
its first meeting after January 1 of each year and shall select a Vice
Chairperson, Secretary, and Treasurer. The Secretary and Treasurer need not be
members of the Utility Board and may be the same person. The Vice Chairperson,
Secretary, and Treasurer shall hold office at the will and pleasure of the
Board. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and, in his or her
absence, the Vice Chairperson.
   (D)   The Secretary shall keep all records of proceedings of the Board which
will be available for inspection as public records. The Treasurer shall be
custodian of all funds of the Board and shall make payments on orders
authorized or approved by the Board. The members of the Board and the Secretary
and Treasurer shall provide bond, if any is required, in the amounts fixed by
the Board for the use and benefit of the systems.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009)
§ 50.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Council shall have the authority to remove any member of the Board
for consistent violations of this subchapter or of any other ordinances
regulating or applying to the Board or for reasonable cause which includes, but
is not limited to, continued failure to attend meetings of the Board, failure
to perform any duty prescribed by law or the Board, or misconduct in office;
provided, however, that no member shall be so removed until he or she has had a
full hearing upon written [MISSING TEXT] State Public Service Commission that
it may deem necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Board
and for the operation of the systems.
   (B)   The Board shall collect fees and charges from the customers of the
systems and shall proceed as necessary to collect delinquent fees and charges.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2009)
CHAPTER 51: GREASE TRAPS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
Regulations
   
51.015   General discharge prohibitions
   
51.016   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
51.017   Modification of Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
51.018   State requirements
   
51.019   Town’s right of revision
   
51.020   Excessive discharge
   
51.021   Accidental discharge
Fees
   
51.035   Purpose
   
51.036   Charges and fees
Administration
   
51.050   Wastewater discharges
   
51.051   Monitoring facilities
   
51.052   Inspection and sampling
   
51.053   Pretreatment
   
51.054   Confidential information
Permits
   
51.065   General permits
   
51.066   Permit application
   
51.067   Permit review
   
51.068   Permit modifications
   
51.069   Permit conditions
   
51.070   Permit duration
   
51.071   Permit transfer
Enforcement
   
51.085   Harmful contributions
   
51.086   Revocation of permit
   
51.087   Notification of violation
   
51.088   Show cause hearing
   
51.089   Legal action
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth the uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town, and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the General Pretreatment
Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the wastewater
system.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT OR THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in a NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an
industrial user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of Vice
President, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietorship, respectively; and/or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (B.O.D.). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matters under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the town’s publicly owned treatment works.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standards.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
publicity owned treatment work’s NPDES permit, where the publicly owned
treatment work is designed to treat such pollutants and, in fact, does treat
such pollutants to the degree required by the town’s publicly owned treatment
works’ NPDES permit.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the APPROVAL AUTHORITY, defined hereinabove; or
the town or Sanitary Board, or its authorized agent.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   GENERAL MANAGER OR MANAGER. The person designated by the town or its
supervising authority, who is empowered to supervise the operation of the
publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waster stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS as
defined above.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the town’s publicly owned treatment works (including
holding tank waste discharged into the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the town’s publicly owned
treatment works treatment processes or operations, or which contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the town’s NPDES permit. The term includes
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the town’s publicly owned
treatment works in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any
criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or
more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the town’s publicly owned treatment works.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
federal register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 a the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   PERSONS. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage, sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked, or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the town’s publicly
owned treatment works. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical
chemical or biological processes, or process changes by other means, except as
prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the town.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the town’s publicly owned treatment
works designed to provide treatment to wastewater.
   TERMINOLOGY. The term SHALL is mandatory, and shall be given the mandatory
effect prescribed by law and practice. The term MAY is permissive, and shall be
given the permissive effect prescribed by law and practice.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the town’s wastewater
disposal system who:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the town’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   Has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act of state statutes and rules; or
      (4)   Is found by the town, authorized regulatory agency of the state or
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air
emissions generated by the system.
   STATE. State of West Virginia.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a) or other Acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s publicly owned treatment works.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the town’s publicly owned treatment works.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all underground water, natural or artificial, public or private,
which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any
portion thereof.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. The permit which is described and set forth
in §§
51.065 through
51.071.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
B.O.D. Biochemical oxygen demand
B.O.D. Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
C.O.D. Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
L      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
S.B.   Sanitary Board
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
U.S.C. United States Code, as amended
T.S.S. Total suspended solids
 
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.015 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the town’s publicly owned treatment works. These general
prohibitions apply to all such users of the town’s publicly owned treatment
works, whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   A user may not contribute the following substances to any of the
town’s publicly owned treatment works:
      (1)   (a)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which, by reason of their
nature or quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction
with other substances to cause fire or explosion, or can be injurious in any
other way to the town’s publicly owned treatment works or to the operation of
the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter; and
         (b)   Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to gasoline,
kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones,
aldehydes, peroxides, and sulfides, and any other substances which the town,
the state, or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the
system.
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides, or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste
paper, wood, or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding
or polished wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0, unless the town’s
publicly owned treatment works is specifically designed to accommodate such
wastewater, or wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of
causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and/or personnel of the
town’s publicly owned treatment works;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the town’s publicly
owned treatment works, or to exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical
pretreatment standard. A TOXIC POLLUTANT shall include, but not be limited to,
any pollutant identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry to the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the town’s publicly owned treatment
works’ effluent or any other product of the town’s publicly owned treatment
works such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation
process where the town’s publicly owned treatment works is pursuing a reuse and
reclamation program. In no case shall a substance discharged to the town’s
publicly owned treatment works cause the town’s publicly owned treatment works
to be in non-compliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines, or
regulations developed under § 405 of the Act; any criteria guidelines or
regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or
state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the town’s publicly owned treatment
works to violate its NPDES and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving
water quality standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the town’s publicly owned treatment works treatment plant resulting
in interference, but in no case wastewater with a temperature at the
introduction into the town’s publicly owned treatment works which exceeds 40°C
(104°F) unless the town’s publicly owned treatment works treatment plant is
designed to accommodate such temperatures;
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (B.O.D., and
the like) released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause Interference to the town’s publicly owned
treatment works. In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or for any time
period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration, quantities, or flow during normal operation;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the manager
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulation; and
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance. When the manager determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the town’s publicly owned treatment works, any of the above enumerated
substances in such amounts as to interfere with the operation of the town’s
publicly owned treatment works, the manager shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the
town’s publicly owned treatment works; and
         (b)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for such user to correct the
interference with the town’s publicly owned treatment works.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.016 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard for a
particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The manager
shall notify all affected users of the applicable requirements under 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.12.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.017 MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where the town’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by Federal Pretreatment Standards, the town may
apply to the Approval Authority for modification of specific limits in the
Federal Pretreatment Standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the
amount of a pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the
wastewater treatment system in 95% of the samples taken when measured according
to the procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7(c)(2) of for existing and new
sources of pollution promulgated pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   The town may modify pollution discharge limits in the Federal
Pretreatment Standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7, are
fulfilled and prior approval from the Approval Authority is obtained.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.019 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.020 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the town or state. Dilution may be an acceptable means
of complying with some of the prohibitions set forth in §
51.015 such as the pH prohibition.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.021 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent
accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the S.B. for review, and shall be approved by the S.B. before
construction of the facility. All existing users shall complete such a plan by
January 1, 2008. No user who commences contribution to the town’s publicly
owned treatment works after the effective date of this chapter shall be
permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge
procedures have been approved by the S.B. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the
responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the
responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the town’s
publicly owned treatment works of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste concentration and volume, and corrective
actions.
   (A)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Manager a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measure to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the town’s publicly owned treatment works, fish kills, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, article, or other applicable law.
   (B)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of the dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
FEES
§ 51.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the town’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
in the town’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.036 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The town hereby adopts charges and fees to assist the industry
while the industry establishes a pretreatment program which includes:
         (a)   For monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures, if
necessary: $40 per man hour;
         (b)   For reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction:
$40 per man hour;
         (c)   For permit application: $25;
         (d)   For filing appeals: $125;
         (e)   Fees for treatment of compatible pollutant parameters of B.O.D.
5 and T.S.S., calculated as follows:
   Ci = Vo Vi + Bo Bi + So Si
            1.   “Ci” shall refer to the charge to industrial users per year.
            2.   “Vo” shall refer to the average unit cost of transport and
treatment chargeable to volume in dollars per gallon.
            3.   “Vi” shall refer to the volume of wastewater from industrial
users in gallons per year.
            4.   “Bo” shall refer to the average unit cost of treatment,
chargeable to biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) in dollars per pound.
            5.   “Bi” shall refer to the weight from industrial users in pounds
per year.
            6.   “So” shall refer to the average unit cost of treatment
(including sludge treatment) chargeable to total solids in dollars per pound.
            7.   “Si” shall refer to the weight of total solids from industrial
users in pounds per year.
         (f)   Other fees as the S.B. may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
      (2)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the town or Sanitary Board.
   (B)   (1)   The general manager may, at his or her discretion, waive the
preliminary permit fee for tapping for users already in operation.
      (2)   This waiver only applies to said fee and not to any additional
charges.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a town or Sanitary Board permit to
any natural outlet within the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of
said town or Sanitary Board, and/or in the town’s publicly owned treatment
works, any wastewater except as authorized by the general manager in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town or Sanitary Board shall require, to be provided and operated
at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling,
and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems.
The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but
the town or Sanitary Board may, when such a location would be impractical or
cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the
public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town or Sanitary
Board’s requirement, and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the town or Sanitary Board.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.052 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town or Sanitary Board shall inspect the facilities of any user to
assure whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements
are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the town or Sanitary Board, or their
authorized agent, ready access at all times and to all parts of the premises
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, records examination, or in the
performance of their duties. The town or Sanitary Board, Approval Authority,
and (where the NPDES state is the Approval Authority), EPA shall have the right
to set up on the user’s property such devices necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town or Sanitary Board, Approval Authority,
or EPA shall be permitted to enter without notice or delay for the purpose of
performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.053 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations as specified by
the Federal Pretreatment Regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the town or Sanitary Board shall be
provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the town or Sanitary Board for review, and shall be acceptable to the town
or Sanitary Board before construction of the facility. The review of such plans
and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the town or Sanitary Board under the provisions of this chapter.
Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation
shall be reported to and be acceptable to the town or Sanitary Board prior to
the user’s initiation of changes.
   (B)   The town or Sanitary Board may annually publish in any newspaper of
general circulation within the town a list of the users which were not in
compliance with any pretreatment requirements or standards, if not in
compliance at least twice during the previous 12-month period. All records
relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made available to
officials of the EPA or Approval Authority upon request.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.054 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and form inspections,
shall be available to the public or other governmental agencies without
restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the town or Sanitary Board, or town, that the release of
such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of
production, entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   (1)   When requested by the person furnishing the report, the portions
of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be
made available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, State Disposal
System permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such
portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the town or
Sanitary Board is confidential, and shall not be transmitted to any
governmental agency or to the general public by the town or Sanitary Board
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
      (2)   Nothing in this section precludes the town or Sanitary Board from
releasing this information upon service upon the town or Sanitary Board of an
appropriate court order by a court of competent jurisdiction which directs the
release.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
PERMITS
§ 51.065 GENERAL PERMITS.
   All significant users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the town’s
publicly owned treatment works shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit
before connecting to or contributing to the town’s publicly owned treatment
works. All existing significant users connected to or contributing to the
town’s publicly owned treatment works shall obtain a wastewater contribution
permit within ten days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.066 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall complete and
file with the town or Sanitary Board an application in the form prescribed by
the town or Sanitary Board and accompanied by a fee of $25. Existing users
shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days after the
effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the town’s publicly owned
treatment works. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units
and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
   (A)   Name, address, and location (if different from the address);
   (B)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not limited
to, those mentioned in §§
51.015 through
51.021 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory sampling an analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended;
   (D)   Time and duration of contribution;
   (E)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, seasonal variations, if any;
   (F)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details to
show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location,
and elevation;
   (G)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
   (H)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state, or Federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional O&M and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards;
   (I)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (for example, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, and the
like).
      (2)   No increment referred to in division (I)(1) above shall exceed nine
months.
      (3)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
fugal date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
manager including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps
being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule established.
In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to
the general manager.
   (J)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and rate
of production;
   (K)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
   (L)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
   (M)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town or Sanitary Board
to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.067 PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   A specified period of 30 days will be given for the town or Sanitary
Board to determine if an application is complete. If complete, notification
will be given to the industry. If not, additional information will be requested
in writing.
   (B)   A specified period of 90 days is given for the town or Sanitary Board
to act on a complete application. The town or Sanitary Board’s action could be
the denial of a permit or the issuance of a draft permit.
   (C)   A specified period of 30 days will be given for comments on a draft
permit by the affected industry with a provision for holding a public meeting
if requested by the industry.
   (D)   A specified period of 30 days is given for appeal of a final permit
and procedures for appeal.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.068 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within
the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater contribution permit as required by §
51.066, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution permit
shall submit to the general manager within 180 days after the promulgation of
an applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard the information
required by §
51.066(H) and (I).
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.069 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions of
this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges, and fees
established by the town or Sanitary Board. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit change or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and maximum rates and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalizations;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling,
number, types, and standards for tests and reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge report
if applicable;
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plan records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the town or Sanitary Board, and affording
the town or Sanitary Board access thereto;
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the town or Sanitary Board or any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as pursuant to §
51.086; and
   (K)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the town or Sanitary Board
to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.070 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than one year or may be
stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance
a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit.
The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the
town or Sanitary Board during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements, as identified in §§
51.015 through
51.021, are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.071 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to new owner, new user, different premises, nor a new or changed
operation without the approval of the town or Sanitary Board. Any succeeding
owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing
permit.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.085 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The town or Sanitary Board may suspend the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit, and the permittee shall
immediately stop or eliminate the contribution.
   (B)   In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with any
suspension order, the town or Sanitary Board shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the town’s publicly owned treatment works system or
endangerment to any individual. The town or Sanitary Board shall reinstate the
wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed written
statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrences shall be
submitted to the town or Sanitary Board within 15 days of the date of the
occurrence.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.086 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state or federal regulation, is subject to having his or her permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this subchapter:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of their discharge;
   (B)   Failure of user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal or reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; and/or
   (D)   Violation of the conditions of the permit.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.087 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the town or Sanitary Board finds that a user has violated, or is
violating, this chapter, wastewater contribution permit, or any prohibition
limitation or requirement contained herein, the town or Sanitary Board may
serve upon such a person a written notice stating the nature of the violation.
Within 30 days of the notice date, a plan for satisfactory correction thereof
shall be submitted to the town or Sanitary Board by the user.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.088 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The town or Sanitary Board may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of
a hearing to be held by the town or Sanitary Board regarding the violation, the
reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the user to show cause before the town or Sanitary Board as to why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any
agent, or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   The town or Sanitary Board may itself conduct the hearing or may
designate any member, officer, or employee to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the town or Sanitary Board notices of the
hearing requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production
of evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Accept the evidence; and/or
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the town or
Sanitary Board for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, all testimony taken
shall be recorded by a certified court reporter, or any recording device which
is capable of recording the voices of the parties and any witnesses. The
transcript will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the town or Sanitary Board has reviewed the evidence, it may
issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge, directing that:
      (1)   Following a specified time period, the sewer service be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances are properly operated; and
      (2)   Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may
be issued.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.089 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
town’s publicly owned treatment works contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the town
or Sanitary Board, the town’s or Sanitary Board’s Attorney may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the circuit court of
the county.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the town or
Sanitary Board, or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, and the orders, rules, regulations, and permits
issued hereunder, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $1,000 for
each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the town or Sanitary Board may recover reasonable attorney’s fees,
court costs, court reporter’s fees, and other expenses of litigation by
appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this chapter
or other orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation,
or certification in any application, report, record, plan, or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $50, nor more than
$500, or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   VEHICULAR OPERATION
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic tickets
Enforcement, Impounding
   
70.15   Authority of Police, Fire Department officials
   
70.16   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
70.17   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
70.18   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
70.19   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.20   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.21   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
70.22   Rights of owners of real property
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Speed race defined, see §
72.053
Statutory reference:
   Powers of municipality, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8
   Uniformity with state law required, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-7
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
      (1)   Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly chartered rescue squads,
Police Department, ambulance service, hospital police department, state,
county, or municipal agency and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks,
wreckers, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service
vehicles, snow removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A
vehicles of members of ambulance services, Class A vehicles of members of duly
chartered rescue squads, emergency management and operations vehicles operated
by airports and designated pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26, and all other
emergency vehicles as are designated by the agency responsible for the
operation and control of these persons or organizations.
      (2)   (a)   Class A vehicles are as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1.
Agency authorization and emergency equipment are provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-
15-26.
         (b)   1.   Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for
emergency vehicle permits may promulgate such regulations that are necessary
for the issuance of permits for emergency vehicles.
            2.   In the event that emergency medical technicians (“EMTs”) or
paramedics on the scene of an emergency are unable to drive an ambulance in the
course of administering patient care, firefighters on the scene shall be
permitted to drive an ambulance.
            3.   Provided, that the Fire Department with which the firefighters
are associated or members and the emergency medical services provider that owns
the ambulance have previously entered into a memorandum of understanding or
other agreement authorizing such action, and the firefighter driving the
ambulance has completed an emergency vehicle operations course (“EVOC”)
otherwise required by the state code or legislative rule promulgated
thereunder.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-6)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use
for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which
occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on
both sides of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
   ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
      (1)   (a)   A two- or three-wheeled vehicle with fully operable pedals
and an electric motor of fewer than 750 watts, and also referred to as an E-
BIKE.
         (b)   There is a three-class system to differentiate between the
models and top-assisted speeds of electric bicycles.
            1.   CLASS 1. Electric bicycles that have a motor that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide
assistance when the E-BIKE reaches 20 mph.
            2.   CLASS 2. Electric bicycles that have a motor that may be used
exclusively to propel the bicycle, and that is not capable of providing
assistance when the E-BIKE reaches 20 mph.
            3.   CLASS 3. Electric bicycles that have a motor that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide
assistance when the E-BIKE reaches 28 mph.
      (2)   THROTTLE refers to a device that controls the flow of power to the
electric motor on an electric bicycle for the purpose of propelling the
electric bicycle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-70)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE OR EPAMD. A self-balancing, two
non-tandem-wheeled device designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture that may
cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant
gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous
objects or of destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   (a)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or
highway by an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
         (b)   In the event such intersecting street or highway also includes
two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such
streets or highways shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-423)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, unless otherwise specified in
this title, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to permit
muscular propulsion, and an independent power source providing a maximum of two
brake horsepower, but excludes electric bicycles. (See ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.) If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston
or rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this title.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas, or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
   PASSENGER VAN.
      (1)   Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business, or
other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of children
under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use, taxicab,
bus, or school bus.
      (2)   (a)   PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to, vehicles used
by daycare centers, after-school centers, and nursery schools.
         (b)   Provided, that the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van
or other motor vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of
transporting children to medical facilities for the purpose of medical or
dental treatment and which loads and unloads the children on private property,
making no stops for loading or unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard to the
manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, or electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-22)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development, or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a street or highway includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately-
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. The land on which a school is built together with such other
land used by students for play, recreation, or athletic events while attending
school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines, of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
   STOP. Complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING. Any stopping or standing of a vehicle, whether
occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign
or signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same,
and when stop signs are erected as provided in this title.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. Any sign, signal, marking, and device not
inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding
traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or non-motorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC TICKETS.
   (A)   In the absence of the municipal judge, the Town Clerk may take pleas
of guilty or no contest to traffic tickets and may assess fines up to 80% of
the maximum penalty, plus court costs.
   (B)   Further, in traffic cases in which the defendant wants to plea not
guilty, the Clerk may assign the defendant a trial date at the court’s next
regular session.
   (C)   For non-traffic related cases, the Clerk may assign the defendant an
arraignment date at the court’s next regular session.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2015)
ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY OF POLICE, FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
§ 70.16 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways, except:
   (A)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; and
   (B)   The provisions of this title, except §§
72.200 through
72.204, shall apply upon streets and highways as defined in §
72.280.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-1)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the streets or highways shall apply to:
      (1)   The drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by the United States,
the state, or any county, municipality, town, district, or any other political
subdivision of the state; and
      (2)   Except as provided in this section and subject to such specific
exceptions as are set forth in this title with reference to authorized
emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this title
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway, but shall
apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4)
§ 70.19 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
72.172 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-5)
§ 70.20 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this title, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-6)
§ 70.21 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge, or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property as provided in W. Va. Code Art. 17-24;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this title or W. Va. Code § 17C-15 whereby
its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life, limb,
or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured, or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of a crash or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked; and/or
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this traffic code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
   (B)   (1)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) above
shall be disposed of as provided under W. Va. Code Art. 17-24. Any other
vehicle removed under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage
and the Police Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner
of the fact of such removal and impounding, reasons therefor, and the place of
storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the
Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or
right to possession.
      (2)   Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner, or
operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court to appear to answer to such violations.
      (3)   The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of
the release form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
§ 70.22 RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent an owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this title, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such owner.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-9)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this title for which another penalty
is not provided shall, for a first conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$100 or imprisoned not more than ten days; for a second such conviction within
one year thereafter, such person shall be fined not more than $200 or
imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, such person shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-18-1)
CHAPTER 71: STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
Street Obstructions; Special Uses
   
71.01   Placing injurious material in street
   
71.02   Play streets
   
71.03   Toy vehicles on streets
   
71.04   Parades and assemblages
Traffic Control Devices
   
71.15   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
71.16   Obedience to traffic control instructions at street construction
   
71.17   Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
71.18   Pedestrian control signals
   
71.19   Flashing traffic signals
   
71.20   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
71.21   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices
   
71.22   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dropping, leaking loads, see §
72.203
   Traffic control devices defined, see §
70.01
   Traffic control signal defined, see §
70.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to place traffic control devices, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)
(2), 17C-3-3
   Authority to prohibit littering in streets, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(3)
   Authority to regulate processions or assemblages, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8
(a)(3)
   Local regulations requiring traffic control devices, see W. Va. Code § 17C-
2-8(c)
   Placing traffic control devices on state highways, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-
8(b), 17C-3-2
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS; SPECIAL USES
§ 71.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal, or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-11) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads, or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of
engaging in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways
specifically set aside for such purposes.
   (B)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   No person, group of persons, or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage, or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may
be prescribed, and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to
a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   Applications shall be filed not less than five days before the time
intended for such parade, procession, or assemblage.
   (C)   (1)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
         (a)   The time, place, size, or conduct of the parade, including the
assembly areas and route of march, would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
         (b)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area, and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
         (c)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment, or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
         (d)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
         (e)   The information contained in the application is found to be
false, misleading, or incomplete in any material detail; and/or
         (f)   An emergency, such as a fire or storm, would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
      (2)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel, and the streets, highways, or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
Penalty, see §
71.99
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   No provision of this subchapter for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
      (2)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or
in place.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4)
§ 71.16 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic control devices, act as a
flagger, or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4a) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.”
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited
under §
72.136, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn.
         (b)   But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left,
shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone except as provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that Council
may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal at
any intersection, which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at
such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street, but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at such
intersection, except that Council may by ordinance prohibit any such left turn
against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall be
effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Traffic control signal at a place other than an intersection. In the
event an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place
other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable
except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating
where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking
the stop shall be made at the signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Local authorities, in areas that experience low traffic times, may
permit flashing signals between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-7)
§ 71.20 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic control device or
traffic control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway, any traffic control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign, or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-8) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Where street or highway construction work is being conducted, signs
and other traffic control devices, as adopted in W. Va. Code § 17C-3-1, shall
be posted giving the location of the work and notifying all motorists as to the
speed limit and any other traffic restrictions.
   (B)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (A) above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this subchapter for such violation.
(W. Va Code § 17C-3-4b) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   General penalty. Whoever violates §§
71.15, 71.16, or 71.18 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Construction zones.
         (a)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.22 by less than 15 mph shall be fined not more than $200.
         (b)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.22 by 15 mph or more shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 20 days, or both.
CHAPTER 72: VEHICULAR OPERATION
Section
Accidents
   
72.001   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
72.002   Crashes involving damage to vehicle
   
72.003   Duty to give information and render aid
   
72.004   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
72.005   Collision with fixtures upon a street or highway
   
72.006   Immediate reports of crashes
   
72.007   When driver unable to report
   
72.008   Garages to report bullet damage
Driving Under the Influence; Reckless Driving
   
72.020   Driving under the influence
   
72.021   Participation in Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
   
72.022   Reckless driving
   
72.023   Hazardous driving
Open Container Law
   
72.035   Definitions
   
72.036   Possession of an open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger
area of a motor vehicle
   
72.037   Procedure on arrest
Speed Restrictions
   
72.050   Maximum speed limits
   
72.051   Slow speed
   
72.052   Special speed limitations
   
72.053   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
   
72.054   Prima facie evidence of speed by radar
   
72.055   Special speed limitations when meeting or overtaking waste service
vehicles
Driving on Right; Passing
   
72.070   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
72.071   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
72.072   Overtaking, passing on left; driver’s duties
   
72.073   Overtaking, passing on right
   
72.074   Overtaking, passed on left of center
   
72.075   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.076   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
72.077   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.078   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
72.079   Following too closely
   
72.080   Driving upon divided roadways
   
72.081   Entering, exiting controlled-access highway
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
72.095   Conformity with provisions required
   
72.096   Right turns
   
72.097   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
72.098   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
72.099   Specified turns at intersections
   
72.100   “U” turn restricted
   
72.101   Starting vehicle
   
72.102   Signals before changing course, turning, or stopping
   
72.103   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
72.104   Hand, arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.115   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.116   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.117   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
72.118   Driving onto roadways from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
72.119   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
72.120   Turning into private driveway, alley, building
Special Stops Required
   
72.135   Driving across grade crossings
   
72.136   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
72.137   Stopping at grade crossings
   
72.138   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
72.139   Through streets and stop intersections
   
72.140   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalks
   
72.141   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights
   
72.142   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
72.143   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
Safety and Equipment
   
72.155   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment
exceptions
   
72.156   When lighted lights required
   
72.157   Measurement of distances and heights
   
72.158   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
72.159   Tail lights; illumination of rear license plat
   
72.160   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
72.161   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
72.162   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
72.163   Spotlight and auxiliary lights
   
72.164   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
72.165   Cowl, fender, back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
72.166   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
72.167   Use of headlight beams
   
72.168   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
72.169   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds
   
72.170   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
72.171   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
72.172   Special restrictions on lights
   
72.173   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
72.174   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds
   
72.175   Horn, siren, theft alarm signal
   
72.176   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas, or noise
   
72.177   Rear-view mirror
   
72.178   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wipers
   
72.179   Tire equipment restrictions
   
72.180   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
72.181   Video screens and monitors, television receivers in view of driver
prohibited
   
72.182   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles,
mopeds
   
72.183   Certification labels on mopeds
   
72.184   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and
booster seats
   
72.185   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
72.186   Alteration of motor vehicles; bumper height limits
   
72.187   Sun screening devices
   
72.188   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
   
72.200   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
72.201   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
72.202   Maximum width, height, length
   
72.203   Loads dropping or leaking
   
72.204   Towing requirements
Miscellaneous Rules
   
72.215   Backing a vehicle
   
72.216   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
72.217   Passengers in seat with operator
   
72.218   Passengers on running board
   
72.219   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.220   Driving over fire hose
   
72.221   Funeral processions
   
72.222   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
72.223   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
72.224   Unlawful riding
   
72.225   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
72.226   Taking, injuring, tampering with vehicle
   
72.227   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn, or curb
   
72.228   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
   
72.229   Coasting prohibited
   
72.230   Driving through safety zone
   
72.231   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
72.232   Obstruction of traffic
   
72.233   Vehicle security
   
72.234   Littering from a motor vehicle
   
72.235   Electronically distracted driving
Licensing Generally
   
72.250   Registration, certificate of title required
   
72.251   Registration card
   
72.252   Display of registration plates
   
72.253   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
72.254   Improper use of registration card, plate, permit
   
72.255   Driver, motorcycle license required
   
72.256   Persons exempt from license
   
72.257   Display of license
   
72.258   Certain acts prohibited
   
72.259   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
72.260   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
Commercial Drivers
   
72.275   Definitions
   
72.276   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
72.277   Employer responsibilities
   
72.278   Commercial driver’s license required
   
72.279   Exemptions
   
72.280   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
   
72.281   Commercial drivers prohibited from texting
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.295   Definitions
   
72.296   Acts prohibited by operator
   
72.297   Safety awareness courses
   
72.298   Rental dealers required to provide safety equipment
   
72.299   Private property exemption
   
72.300   Exemption for farm, commercial use; current regulations
   
72.301   Applicability of rules of operation
Autonomous Vehicles and Devices
   
72.315   Definitions
   
72.316   Rules for personal delivery devices and mobile carriers
 
   
72.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see §§
74.20 through
74.29, and 74.99
   Impounding unlicensed vehicle, see §
70.21
   Impounding wrecked vehicles, see §
70.21
   Intoxication or drinking in a public place, see §
130.095
   Obedience to traffic control devices, see §
71.15
   Removal of glass, and the like from highway, see §
71.01
Statutory reference:
   All-terrain vehicles, see W. Va. Code Art. 17F-1
   Authority to designate through streets and stop intersections, see W. Va.
Code § 17C-2-8(a)(6), 17C-12-5
   Authority to designate weight limits on local streets, see W. Va. Code §
17C-2-8(a)(7)
   Authority to establish one-way streets, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8(4)
   Authority to establish through streets and stop intersections, see W. Va.
Code § 17C-2-8(a)(6)
   Authority to permit oversized buses, see W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2(b)
   Authority to prohibit driving under the influence, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5
(21)
   Authority to regulate speed, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8, 17C-6-3
   Authority to regulate the turning of vehicles, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)
(9)
   Authority to require local crash report, see W. Va. Code § 17C-4-15
   Authority to specify different courses for turns, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5
   Compliance with state law, see W. Va. Code § 17C-5-11a
   Implied consent, see W. Va. Code § 17C-5A
   Minimum speed regulations, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3(a)
   Obscured light on vehicles in combination, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-13
   Special speed limitations, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-6-4 et seq.
   Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, see W. Va. Code Art. 17E-1
   Use of radar, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-7
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-39
ACCIDENTS
§ 72.001 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in the
injury to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the
scene of the crash, or as close to the scene as possible, and return to and
remain at the scene of the crash until he or she has complied with the
requirements of §
72.003.
      (2)   Provided, that the driver may leave the scene of the crash as may
reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance to any person
injured in the crash, as required by §
72.003.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness, or
any impairment of physical condition.
      PHYSICAL INJURY. Bodily injury, serious bodily injury, or death.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, prolonged loss, or impairment of the function of any bodily organ, loss
of pregnancy, or the morbidity or mortality occurring because of a pre-term
delivery.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall revoke the license, or permit or operating
privilege, to drive of any resident or non-resident person convicted pursuant
to the provisions of this section for a period of one year from the date of
conviction or the date of release from incarceration, whichever is later.
   (D)   This section may be known and cited as Erin’s Law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 CRASHES INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage
to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such crash, or as close thereto as possible but
shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
crash until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
72.003.
   (B)   Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with such requirements under
such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in
injury to or death of any person, or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person, shall, if physically able to do so, provide to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with, the following:
         (a)   His or her name, a valid telephone number where he or she may be
contacted, and the year, make, model, and last four digits of the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle he or she is driving; and
         (b)   Provide proof of security and financial responsibility required
by W. Va. Code §§ 17D-2A-3 and 17D-4-2, and if provided by insurance, the
information provided upon the certificate of insurance, including the name of
the insured, the name and contact information of the insurer, and insurance
policy number.
      (2)   A driver may meet the requirements of this division (A) by
providing the information required herein to a law enforcement officer who is
investigating or providing assistance at the scene of the collision, who shall,
if practical under the circumstances, provide the information to any person
entitled thereto pursuant to this division (A).
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to
or death of any person, if physically able to do so, shall render to any person
injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon,
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking,
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON A STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact, and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, and shall, upon
request and if available, exhibit his or her driver’s license, and shall make
report of such crash when and as required.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF CRASHES.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to or death
of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $1,000 or more
shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such
crash to the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate notification of a crash, as required in §
72.006, and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the crash
capable of making a notification, such occupant shall make or cause to be made
such notification not made by the driver.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-8)
§ 72.008 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-12)
Cross-reference:
   Offenses relating to property, see §§ 130.145 through
130.154
   Weapons and explosives, see §§ 130.180 through
130.191
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; RECKLESS DRIVING
§ 72.020 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness, or
any impairment of physical condition.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The same meaning as provided in W. Va. Code § 60A-
1-101.
      IMPAIRED STATE. A person who:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug or inhalant substance;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance, or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008% or
more, by weight.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
      TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM. The Motor Vehicle Test and Lock Program,
established in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a and administered by the Division of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   A person may be charged in a warrant, indictment, or information
for a second or subsequent offense, as described in §
72.999(C)(7) or (C)(8)(b), if the person has been previously arrested for, or
charged with, a violation of this section which is alleged to have occurred
within the applicable time period for prior offenses, notwithstanding the fact
that there has not been a final adjudication of the charges for the alleged
previous offense.
      (2)   In that case, the warrant or indictment or information must set
forth the date, location, and particulars of the previous offense or offenses.
No person may be convicted of a second or subsequent offense under this section
unless the conviction for the previous offense has become final, or the person
has previously had a period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17C-5-2b.
   (C)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of §
72.999(C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), (C)(5), or (C)(6), or any person
permitted to drive as described under §
72.999(C)(5) or (C)(6), is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a drug does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating §
72.999(C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), (C)(5), or (C)(6).
   (D)   (1)   The sentences provided in §
72.999(C), upon conviction for a violation of this section, are mandatory and
are not subject to suspension or probation; provided, that the court may apply
the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 62-11A-1 et seq. to a person sentenced or
committed to a term of one year or less for a first offense under this section;
provided, however, that the court may impose a term of conditional probation
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b to persons adjudicated thereunder.
      (2)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code §§ 62-11B-1 et seq. may be used as an alternative sentence to
any period of incarceration required by this section for a first or subsequent
offense; provided, further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered
for a person convicted of a second offense under this section, electronic
monitoring shall be required for no fewer than five days of the total period of
home confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those five
days notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5; and provided,
further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered for a person
convicted of a third or subsequent violation of this section, electronic
monitoring shall be included for no fewer than ten days of the total period of
home confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those ten
days, notwithstanding W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5.
   (E)   A person whose license to operate a motor vehicle has been revoked or
suspended by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles pursuant to
this section must complete a comprehensive safety and treatment program as set
forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3 before his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle can be reinstated and his or her driving privileges restored.
   (F)   For any offense for which an alternative revocation period is
permitted, conditioned upon participation in the Test and Lock Program, an
alternative sentence may not be imposed without the consent of the driver.
   (G)   Upon entering the order of conviction for an offense under this
section, or the imposition of conditional probation as provided in W. Va. Code
§ 17C-5-2b, the Clerk of the court shall immediately transmit the order to the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.021 PARTICIPATION IN MOTOR VEHICLE ALCOHOL TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the court, without
entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused, shall defer
further proceedings and impose probation, when:
         (a)   The person pleads to or is found guilty of the offense defined
in §
72.999(C)(2);
         (b)   The person has not previously been convicted of any offense
under this subchapter, or under any statute of the United States or of any
state, relating to driving under the influence of alcohol, any controlled
substance, or any other drug; and
         (c)   The person notifies the court within 30 days of his or her
arrest of his or her intention to participate in a deferral pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   If all the requirements in division (A)(1) above are met, the
court, without entering a judgment of guilt, shall defer further proceedings
and place the person on probation, the conditions of which shall include that
he or she successfully completes the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock
Program as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Participation therein shall be
for a period of at least 165 days after a 15-day suspension of his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle and shall be completed within one year
thereafter.
   (B)   (1)   If the prosecuting attorney files a motion alleging that the
defendant during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
has been removed therefrom by the Division of Motor Vehicles, or has failed to
successfully complete the program before making a motion for dismissal pursuant
to division (C) below, the court may issue such process as is necessary to
bring the defendant before the court.
      (2)   A motion alleging a violation filed pursuant to division (C)(1)
below must be filed during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program or, if filed thereafter, must be filed within a reasonable time
after the alleged violation was committed.
      (3)   When the defendant is brought before the court, the court shall
afford the defendant an opportunity to be heard. If the court finds that the
defendant has been rightfully removed from the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program by the Division of Motor Vehicles, the court may order, when
appropriate, that the deferral be terminated, and thereupon enter an
adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided.
      (4)   Should the defendant fail to complete or be removed from the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program, the defendant waives the appropriate
statute of limitations and the defendant’s right to a speedy trial under any
applicable federal or state constitutional provisions, statutes, or rules of
court during the period of enrollment in the program.
   (C)   (1)   When the defendant shall have completed satisfactorily the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program and complied with its conditions, the
defendant may move the court for an order dismissing the charges.
      (2)   This motion shall be supported by affidavit of the defendant and by
certification of the Division of Motor Vehicles that the defendant has
successfully completed the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program.
      (3)   A copy of the motion shall be served on the prosecuting attorney
who shall, within 30 days after service, advise the judge of any objections to
the motion, serving a copy of such objections on the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney.
      (4)   If there are no objections filed within the 30-day period, the
court shall thereafter dismiss the charges against the defendant. If there are
objections filed with regard to the dismissal of charges, the court shall
proceed as set forth in division (B) above.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided herein, unless a defendant adjudicated
pursuant to this section is convicted of a subsequent violation of §§
72.020 or
72.999(C), or W. Va. Code § 17C-5, discharge and dismissal under this section
shall be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for purposes of
disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime,
except for those provided in W. Va. Code §§ 17C-5A-1 et seq.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
72.999(C) regarding subsequent offenses, the effect of the dismissal and
discharge shall be to restore the person in contemplation of law to the status
he or she occupied prior to arrest and trial.
      (3)   No person as to whom a dismissal and discharge have been effected
shall be thereafter held to be guilty of perjury, false swearing, or otherwise
giving a false statement by reason of his or her failure to disclose or
acknowledge his or her arrest or trial in response to any inquiry made of him
or her for any purpose other than any inquiry made in connection with any
subsequent offense as provided in §
72.999(C).
   (E)   There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this section with
respect to any person.
   (F)   No person shall be eligible for dismissal and discharge under this
section:
      (1)   In any prosecution in which any violation of any other provision of
§§
72.020 or
72.999(C), or W. Va. Code § 17C-5 has been charged;
       (2)   If the person holds a commercial driver’s license or operates
commercial motor vehicles;
       (3)   If the person has previously had his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle revoked for any offense under a municipal ordinance of this
state, or any other state or a statute of the United States, or of any other
state which has the same elements as an offense described in this subchapter;
or
      (4)   If a court entered an order finding that the person refused the
secondary chemical test pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-7a.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   After a period of not less than one year, which shall
begin to run immediately upon the expiration of a term of probation imposed
upon any person under this section, the person may apply to the court for an
order to expunge all official records of his or her arrest, trial, and
conviction pursuant to this section, except for those maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
         (b)   Provided, that any person who has previously been convicted of a
felony may not make a motion for expungement pursuant to this section.
      (2)   If the prosecuting attorney objects to the expungement, the
objections shall be filed with the court within 30 days after service of a
motion for expungement, and copies of the objections shall be served on the
defendant or the defendant’s attorney.
      (3)   (a)   If the objections are filed, the court shall hold a hearing
on the objections, affording all parties an opportunity to be heard.
         (b)   If the court determines after a hearing that the person during
the period of his or her probation and during the period of time prior to his
or her application to the court under this division (G) has not been guilty of
any serious or repeated violation of the conditions of his or her probation, it
shall order the expungement.
   (H)   (1)   A person prosecuted for an offense under §
72.999(C), whose case is disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this
section, shall be required to pay the amount of court costs that could be
assessed against a person convicted of the offense.
      (2)   Payment of such costs may be made a condition of probation.
      (3)   The costs assessed pursuant to this division (H), whether as a term
of probation or not, shall be distributed as other court costs in accordance
with W. Va. Code §§ 50-3-2, 14-2A-4, 30-29-4, and 62-5-2, 62-5-7, and 62-5-10.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b)
§ 72.022 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private, or upon the
property of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal
park and public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.023 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.999
OPEN CONTAINER LAW
§ 72.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor, as defined in W. Va. Code § 60-1-5; and
      (2)   Non-intoxicating beer, as defined in W. Va. Code § 11-16-3.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and
manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a
vehicle operated solely on a rail or rails.
   OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can, or other receptacle
that:
      (1)   Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (2)   (a)   Is open or has a broken seal; or
         (b)   Has had its contents partially removed.
   PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the motor
vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the driver
or a passenger while in their seating positions.
      (2)   For purposes of this subchapter, the PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR
VEHICLE does not include:
         (a)   1.   A locked glove compartment; or
            2.   A fixed center console or other similar fixed compartment that
is locked.
         (b)   In a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk:
            1.   The area behind the last upright seat; or
            2.   An area not normally occupied by the driver or a passenger.
      (3)   In a pickup truck that has no trunk, camper top, or separate
enclosed area other than the cab of the truck, in the area behind the front
seat of the truck in a locked case or container located so as to not be readily
accessible to the driver or passengers while in their seating positions.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY OR RIGHT-OF-WAY OF A PUBLIC HIGHWAY. The entire width between
the immediately adjacent to the boundary lines of every way that is publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-2)
§ 72.036 POSSESSION OF AN OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER IN THE PASSENGER
AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
consume any alcoholic beverage in the passenger area of a motor vehicle located
on a public highway or right-of-way of a public highway in this municipality,
whether the vehicle is in motion or at rest.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
knowingly possess any open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area
of any motor vehicle that is located on a public highway or right-of-way of a
public highway in this municipality, whether the vehicle is in motion or at
rest. Possession by a person of one or more open containers in a single
criminal occurrence is a single offense.
   (C)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to a passenger:
      (1)   In the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained, or
used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation including,
but not limited to, a bus, taxicab, or limousine; or
      (2)   In the living quarters of a motorized or non-motorized house coach,
house trailer, motor home, or self-contained camper.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.037 PROCEDURE ON ARREST.
   If a person is arrested for an offense under the provisions of this
subchapter, unless the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17C-19-3 require that the
person arrested be taken immediately before a magistrate for an offense
described in that section, the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 17C-19 regarding
the issuance of a traffic citation containing a notice to appear applies.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-4)
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.050 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   (1)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
division (B) or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful. The
following speed limits apply.
         (a)   1.   Fifteen mph in a school zone during school recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
            2.   A SCHOOL ZONE is all school property including school grounds
and any street or highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet
along such street or highway from the school grounds and, in the case of school
property not abutting a street or highway but accessed through a right-of-way
granted for entrance to school property, a school zone established by an
engineering study conducted by the Division of Highways is all school property,
including school grounds and any property within the access right-of-way, and
extending 125 feet along the street or highway from the entrance to the access
right-of-way.
            3.   The speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on
a controlled-access highway which is separated from the school or school
grounds by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of Highways:
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any business or residence district; and/or
         (c)   Fifty-five mph on open country highways, except as otherwise
provided by this subchapter.
      (2)   The speeds set forth in this division (B) may be altered as
authorized in W. Va. Code Art. 17C-6.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (D)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph and the speed limits specified in division (B) above do not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.051 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a)) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.052 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this traffic code, no
person shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped
with pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
         (a)   Twenty mph in any business district;
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district; and
         (c)   Forty mph on open country highway.
      (2)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than
pneumatic tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
      (2)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure when such structure is so signposted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.053 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or
timer or in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on
any public street or highway in this municipality.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SPEED RACE means:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8(a)) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.054 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF SPEED BY RADAR.
   (A)   The speed of a motor vehicle may be proved by evidence obtained by use
of any device designed to measure and indicate or record the speed of a moving
object by means of microwaves or reflected light when such evidence is obtained
by members of the Police Department.
   (B)   The evidence so obtained shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of
the speed of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-7)
§ 72.055 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS WHEN MEETING OR OVERTAKING WASTE SERVICE
VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle and meet or overtake from either
direction a stopped waste service vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, WASTE SERVICE VEHICLE means any garbage
collection vehicle, including a vehicle collecting recyclables or yard waste,
which:
      (1)   Is used for curbside collection;
      (2)   Makes frequent stops; and
      (3)   Is not fully automated.
   (C)   The speed limitation set forth in division (A) above applies only
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The waste service vehicle is identifiable as a waste service
vehicle based on the vehicle configuration or markings on the vehicle;
      (2)   The waste service vehicle operator is giving a visual signal by
means of a stationary sign to warn of the presence of workers or must use
flashing lights as permitted in this code to caution other drivers; and
      (3)   The waste service vehicle is not located on a private driveway,
controlled access highway, interstate highway, turnpike, or road or highway
with a centerline and more than two lanes.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11) Penalty, see §
72.999
DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
§ 72.070 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right-half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right-half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-1)
§ 72.071 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-2)
§ 72.072 OVERTAKING, PASSING ON LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction subject to these limitations, exceptions, and special
rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left of the
overtaken vehicle at a safe distance and may not again drive to the right side
of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed, and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (C)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.073 OVERTAKING, PASSING ON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
upon the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety.
      (2)   In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement
or main-traveled portion of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.074 OVERTAKING, PASSED ON LEFT OF CENTER.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (B)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.075 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, at any time, be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and/or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.076 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.077 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c)) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.078 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane,
except in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-9) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.079 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of
more than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle
drawing another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus,
special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
      (2)   Provided, that this division (B) shall not be construed to:
         (a)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
         (b)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone;”
         (c)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
         (d)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   (1)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a
business or residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing
other vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each
such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to
enter and occupy such space without danger.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Funeral processions; or
         (b)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United
States or of this state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-10) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.080 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall:
   (A)   Be driven over, across, or within any such dividing space, barrier, or
section, except through an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section
or space; or
   (B)   At a crossover or intersection established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-11) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.081 ENTERING, EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-12) Penalty, see §
72.999
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 72.095 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-1)
§ 72.096 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-2)
§ 72.097 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right-half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof, and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered.
   (B)   Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of
the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-3)
§ 72.098 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle.
   (B)   After entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to
leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.099 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers, buttons, or
signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this subchapter be
traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons, or
signs are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or
signs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
Cross-reference:
   Right-of-way when turning left, see §
72.116
   Turning into private driveway, alley, building, see §
72.120
§ 72.100 “U” TURN RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway, or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs
are erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.101 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.102 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING, OR STOPPING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
72.095 through
72.099, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be
affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-8) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.103 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   (A)   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by
means of the hand-and-arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device.
   (B)   When a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal
would not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then such
signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-9)
§ 72.104 HAND, ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand-and-arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-10)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.115 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-1)
§ 72.116 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this traffic code, may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-2)
§ 72.117 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
72.139 at the entrance to a through street or highway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways or which are approaching so closely on such through
street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having
so yielded may proceed.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto, although not a part of a through street or highway,
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-3)
§ 72.118 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAYS FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-4)
§ 72.119 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
72.172, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet, to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when
operated as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving
audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the
roadway clear of any intersection, and shall stop and remain in such position
until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-5)
§ 72.120 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY, BUILDING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley, or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn, and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn, and a left turn shall be made from that portion of
the right-half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof; and
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn, and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley, or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any:
      (1)   Alleyway;
      (2)   Private road;
      (3)   Driveway; or
      (4)   Building.
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 72.135 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.136 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the State
Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
When such stop signs are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within
50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and
shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-2)
§ 72.137 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the driver of a
commercial motor vehicle specified in division (B) below shall not cross a
railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
         (a)   Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
         (b)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
         (c)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
      (2)   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial motor
vehicle across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor vehicle
to complete the crossing without change of gears. The driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks at grade:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 392.10(a)(3) (2001);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. parts 107 through 180
(2001);
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120 (2001); and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part 107,
subpart B (2001).
   (C)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with division (A) above.
   (D)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade as provided in division (A) above may not
cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows the
commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad crossing
and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are clear of an
approaching train.
   (E)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping, and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (F)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flagger, or a
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing, or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5 (2000);
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law, permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3)
§ 72.138 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of ten or less mph or a vertical body or load clearance of less
than one-half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles or,
in any event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of a
roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first
complying with this section.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   (1)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving
any such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet
nor more than 50 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad.
      (2)   While so stopped, the operator shall listen and look in both
directions along such track for any approaching train, and for signals
indicating the approach of a train, and shall not proceed until the crossing
can be made safely.
   (D)   (1)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by
automatic signal or crossing gates or a flagger, or otherwise of the immediate
approach of a railroad train or car.
      (2)   If a flagger is provided by the railroad, movement over the
crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.139 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto, or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (B)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height, and such sign shall, at nighttime, be rendered luminous
by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected
on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (D)   (1)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the
event there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line.
      (2)   If none, then at the point nearest the intersecting street or
highway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
street or highway before entering the intersection, except when directed to
proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-5)
§ 72.140 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-6)
§ 72.141 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-12-8, and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road,
or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway, and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
   (B)   Where the actual identity of the operator of a motor vehicle operated
in violation of division (A) above is unknown but the license plate number of
the motor vehicle is known, it may be inferred that the operator was an owner
or lessee of the motor vehicle for purposes of the probable cause
determination. Where there is more than one registered owner or lessee, the
inference created by this division (B) shall apply to the first listed owner or
lessee as found on the motor vehicle registration; provided, that a person
charged with a violation of division (A) above under the provisions of this
division (B) where the sole evidence against the owner or lessee is the
presence of the vehicle at the scene at the time of the offense shall only be
subject to the applicable fine set forth in §
72.999(K)(2).
   (C)   Service of process of a complaint issued pursuant to division (B)
above shall be effected consistent with State Rule of Criminal Procedure 4.
   (D)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“School Bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “School Bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a County Board of Education, agency, or
individual, shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7)
§ 72.142 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children
shall bear upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing
the warning “Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less
than six inches in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with
either flashing warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W.
Va. Code § 17C-12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult
must use by exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the
loading or unloading of passengers.
      (2)   Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white flashing strobotron
warning light that meets the requirements set forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26
(e).
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any
direction any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the
passenger van when there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning
signal lights or when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution
flag and assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may not proceed until he or she is signaled
by the passenger van driver to proceed, the passenger van flashing signal
lights are no longer actuated, or the passenger resumes motion.
      (3)   This section applies whenever the passenger van is loading or
unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot, private road, or
driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-17a)
§ 72.143 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
Penalty, see §
72.999
SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
§ 72.155 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved, on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this subchapter, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this subchapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to equipment on
vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers, or farm tractors, except as herein made applicable.
      (2)   Every farm tractor equipped with an electric lighting system shall
at all times, mentioned in §
72.156, display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
72.156.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1)
§ 72.156 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, or moped operated upon a street or highway within this municipality at
any time from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain, or other
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
street or highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head
lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter respectively required for
different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked
vehicles as provided for in §
72.161(C).
      (2)   Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Lighted lamps and other lighting devices that consist of
multiple light-emitting diodes (LEDs) or other illuminating components that
function as a single lighting unit are deemed to be functional so long as at
least 66% of the LEDs or other illuminating components are functional.
      (2)   Provided, that the lighted lamps or lighting devices must still
project sufficient illumination to satisfy all other requirements contained in
this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-2)
§ 72.157 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
72.156 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street, or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to the
level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3)
§ 72.158 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle, and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches to
be measured as set forth in §
72.157.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-4)
§ 72.159 TAIL LIGHTS; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLAT.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; provided, that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches to be measured as set forth in §
72.157(B).
   (C)   (1)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed
and placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
      (2)   Any tail lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the head lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-5)
§ 72.160 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
72.156, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
   (B)   At any time, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such
load a red flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the
entire area is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-14)
§ 72.161 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is sufficient light
to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street
or highway no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or
shoulder adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours
between sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any
person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway,
such vehicle so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps
meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same lamp or
at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear of the vehicle; and
         (b)   The location of such lamp or lamps shall always be such that at
least one lamp or combination of lamps meeting the requirements of this section
is installed as near as practicable to the side of the vehicle which is closest
to passing traffic.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped.
   (C)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-15)
§ 72.162 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles, including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred
to in §
72.155(C), not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
72.156 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-16)
§ 72.163 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, a lamp or lighting device meets the
requirements specified below so long as any portion of the illuminating surface
of the lamp or lighting device is within the specified range.
   (B)   All lamps and lighting devices covered in this section may be
installed so that the entire lamp or lighting device exceeds 42 inches above
the level surface upon which the vehicle stands so long as such lamps or
lighting devices are either covered or dimmable.
      (1)   Spot lamps.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle except a public utility company maintenance
vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every lighted spot
lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle that no part
of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the left of the
prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than 100 feet
ahead of the vehicle.
         (b)   A public utility company maintenance vehicle may be equipped
with more than one spot lamp, but all lighted spot lamps shall be aimed and
used in conformity to the requirements of this division (B)(1).
      (2)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall, at a distance of 25
feet ahead, project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
      (3)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary passing lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (4)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (5)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road
light bar lighting device comprised of multiple lamps.
         (b)   Provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or driven upon
any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall
be turned off while the vehicle is being operated on any road or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-17)
§ 72.164 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and when required under this traffic
code shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp; or
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (B)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime,
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
72.156.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-18)
§ 72.165 COWL, FENDER, BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (C)   All motor vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of at least two
functioning back-up lamps either separately or in combination with other lamps,
unless the vehicle was originally equipped with one lamp. Any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses
used for the transportation of school children in this municipality, whether
owned and operated by a County Board of Education or privately owned and
operated under contract with a County Board of Education, shall be equipped
with at least two back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white
lens or reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of
the bus for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the
County Board of Education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination
intensity instead of 32 candlepower.
   (D)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps
used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level
and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (E)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering, or picking up mail along the route.
   (F)   (1)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking, or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this subchapter.
      (2)   The lamps or flashing lights used to display such warning to the
front shall be mounted at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable, and shall display simultaneously either illuminating or flashing
purple lights.
      (3)   The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted
at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing or illuminated purple lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-19)
§ 72.166 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead.
      (2)   On a straight level road under any condition of loading none of the
high-intensity portion of the beam shall be directed to strike the eyes of an
approaching driver.
   (C)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, or moped, registered in the state after January 1, 1952, which has
multiple-beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
head lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted.
      (2)   Such indicator shall be so designed and located that when lighted
it will be readily visible without glare to the driver of the vehicle so
equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-20)
§ 72.167 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
72.156, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle
within 500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the
oncoming driver.
      (2)   The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in
§
72.166(B), shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road
contour and loading.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this traffic
code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
72.166(A). (W. Va. Code § 17C-15-21)
§ 72.168 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952, in
lieu of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations.
   (A)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of 25 feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (B)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-22)
§ 72.169 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type but in either event shall
comply with the requirements and limitations as follows.
   (A)   Every head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
mph and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated at a speed
of 25 or more mph.
   (B)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps the upper beam shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the limitations set
forth in §
72.166(A), and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements applicable to a
lowermost distribution of light as set forth in §
72.166(B).
   (C)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
single-beam lamp or lamps, such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when the
vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it comes.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) below, a motorcycle may be equipped
with, and an operator of a motorcycle may use, the following auxiliary
lighting:
         (a)   Amber and white illumination;
         (b)   Standard bulb running lights; or
         (c)   Light-emitting diode pods and strips.
      (2)   Lighting under this division (D) shall be:
         (a)   Non-blinking;
         (b)   Non-flashing;
         (c)   Non-oscillating; and
         (d)   Directed toward the engine and the drive train of the motorcycle
to prevent interference with the driver’s operation of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-23)
§ 72.170 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
72.156 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
72.166 or
72.168; provided, that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of
20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-24)
§ 72.171 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
72.156, at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp, or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-25)
§ 72.172 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps, or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person may drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device on the vehicle displaying other than a white or amber
light visible from directly in front of the center of the vehicle except as
authorized by division (D) below.
   (C)   Except as authorized in divisions (D) and (G) below and §
72.165, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any
vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means
of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may
have blinking or flashing lights.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this traffic code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated.
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each Police Department.
      (2)   (a)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by §
72.165, red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
            1.   Ambulances;
            2.   Firefighting vehicles;
            3.   Hazardous material response vehicles;
            4.   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
            5.   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a fire department;
            6.   School buses;
            7.   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code §§ 17A-10-1 et
seq., of those firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have the
lights;
            8.   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads
not operating out of a fire department;
            9.   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
            10.   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active
members of the State Fire Departments, ambulance services, or duly chartered
rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have the lights;
            11.   The State Department of Agriculture emergency response
vehicles;
            12.   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security for emergency response or emergency management by the
Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional Facility Authority,
Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management;
            13.   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency
management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence; and
            14.   Emergency management and operations vehicles operated by
airports.
         (b)   Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle may be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services, or
chartered rescue squads.
      (3)   The use of red flashing warning lights is authorized as follows.
         (a)   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and the sheriff of the county of residence.
         (b)   Authorization for all Fire Department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         (c)   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         (d)   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a fire department shall be designated by the squad chief, the sheriff of the
county of residence, and the Department of Health.
         (e)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
         (f)   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         (g)   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health, and the sheriff
of the county of residence.
         (h)   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence, and
the Department of Health.
         (i)   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a State Fire Department, ambulance services,
or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their respective chiefs.
         (j)   Authorization for State Department of Agriculture emergency
response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner of the Department of
Agriculture.
         (k)   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security.
         (l)   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence.
         (m)   Authorization for emergency management and operations vehicles
operated by airports shall be designated by the airport director and the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and § 17C-15-27;
         (b)   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized
in §
72.165;
         (c)   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         (d)   Flag car services;
         (e)   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         (f)   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         (g)   Snow removal equipment;
         (h)   School buses; and
         (i)   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department, or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows.
         (a)   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation, and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence.
         (b)   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways.
         (c)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
         (d)   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard for automotive fire
apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) on
July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by legislative rule (87
C.S.R. §§ 1 et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any vehicle
belonging to a County Board of Education, an organization receiving funding
from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of providing
general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped with a
white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be installed on
the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling
solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward from the rear of
the roof edge. The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360
degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than
six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to
indicate the light is in operation.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any waste
service vehicle as defined in W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11 may be equipped with
yellow or amber flashing warning lights.
   (G)   It is unlawful for flashing warning lights of an unauthorized color to
be installed or used on a vehicle other than as specified in this section,
except that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red
warning lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.173 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer hereinafter sold
in this state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped and any semi-
trailer of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with
brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   (a)   1.   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means.
            2.   Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or other
source of power; provided, that failure of the service brake actuation system
or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes from
being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements.
            3.   The parking brakes shall be so designed that when once applied
they shall remain applied with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of
any source of energy or leakage of any kind.
         (b)   1.   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies,
brake shoe anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally
associated with the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service
brakes and the parking brakes.
            2.   If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                              Feet to stop from 20 mph Deceleration in feet per
                                                       second
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on all 30                       14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes on 40                       10.7
all wheels
 
   (C)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-31)
§ 72.174 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has
disapproved the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-32) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.175 HORN, SIREN, THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall
be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   (D)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions
from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of
an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the
driver of such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-33)
§ 72.176 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, OR NOISE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise.
      (2)   Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof.
      (3)   No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device
upon a motor vehicle on a street or highway.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-34)
§ 72.177 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-35)
§ 72.178 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, or
other non-transparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, or side
or rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
street or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.179 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer, or semi-trailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided, that in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a highway, other than
school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are operational with a
recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square inch.
   (D)   The Council may in its discretion issue special permits authorizing
the operation upon the highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a highway
would otherwise be prohibited under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-37) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.180 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (B)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-41) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.181 VIDEO SCREENS AND MONITORS, TELEVISION RECEIVERS IN VIEW OF DRIVER
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No motor vehicle may be operated on a street or highway when equipped
with a television receiver, video monitor, or television or video screen unless
the receiver, screen, or monitor is configured so that the moving images are
not in view of the operator while the vehicle is in motion, or if it falls
within one or more of the categories set forth in divisions (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   This prohibition does not apply to the following equipment installed
in a vehicle:
      (1)   A visual display if it does not show video or television broadcast
images in view of the operator while the motor vehicle is in motion;
      (2)   A global positioning device;
      (3)   A mapping display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind, or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement a driver’s view of
vehicle occupants; or
      (6)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering information.
   (C)   A television receiver, video monitor, or television or video screen or
other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal is not prohibited if the equipment has an interlock device that, when
the motor vehicle is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a
visual display described in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(6) above.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-42)
§ 72.182 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES,
MOPEDS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or
motor-driven cycle unless he or she is wearing, securely fastened on his or her
head by either a neck or chin strap, a protective helmet designed to deflect
blows, resist penetration, and spread impact forces.
      (2)   Any helmet worn by an operator or passenger shall meet the current
performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States Department of Transportation
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, or Snell Safety Standards for
Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or
motor-driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant
eyeglasses (excluding contact lenses), or eye goggles or face shield that
complies with the performance specifications established by the American
National Standards Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1.
      (2)   In addition, if any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is
equipped with a windshield or windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be
constructed of safety, shatter-resistant material that complies with the
performance specifications established by Department of Transportation Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205 and American National Standards
Institute, Safety Glazing Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land
Highways, Standard Z 26.1.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D)   (1)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped
shall ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent
operator’s seat attached to the vehicle.
      (2)   No operator shall carry any other person nor shall any other person
ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to carry more than one
person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the operator upon the
permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons, or upon another
seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the operator’s seat and
equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the passenger or in a
sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   No person shall ride sidesaddle on a seat.
      (4)   An operator may carry as many passengers as there are seats and
footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may be carried
in a factory produced side car; provided, that there is one passenger per seat.
Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (E)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him for a distance of at least 200 feet.
   (F)   (1)   AUTOCYCLE means a fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that is
equipped with safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror, automotive
seating, a steering wheel, and equipment otherwise required on a motorcycle and
which has no more than three wheels in contact with the roadway at any one
time.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-69)
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
person with a valid driver’s license who is operating a fully enclosed
autocycle, as defined in division (F)(1) above, is exempt from the provisions
of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-44)
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.183 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in this municipality shall have, permanently affixed to it,
a certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-45)
§ 72.184 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND
BOOSTER SEATS.
   (A)   (1)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years
in a passenger automobile, van, or pickup truck other than one operated for
hire shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining, and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards.
      (2)   Provided, that if a child is under the age of eight years and at
least four feet nine inches tall, a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46)
§ 72.185 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va.
Code Art. 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-16-9) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.186 ALTERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; BUMPER HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any
motor vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has
been modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that
its bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal
bumper bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits
specified herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and
rear bumper height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is
10,000 pounds or less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31
inches.
      (2)   In the absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have
been altered or modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of
the frame rail. If a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least
three inches in vertical width, centered on the centerline of the motor vehicle
and not less than the width of the wheel track distance.
      (3)   The provisions of this division (A) do not apply to motor vehicles
with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds. For the purpose
of this division (A), the term GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATINGS means the
manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings established for that vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle
frame shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided, that the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be modified to cause the vehicle body or chassis
to come in contact with the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from
collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact with the body under normal
operation. No part of the original suspension system may be disconnected to
defeat the safe operation of the suspension system. Modification of the front
end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly prohibited.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy
duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits the operation on a public
street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system
if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (E)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of this municipality.
   (F)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in division (H) below.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in division (H)
below.
   (H)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle’s make and model
but within the allowable limits of division (A) above, or any motor vehicle
which has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that vehicle’s
make and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to vehicle
frame but within the allowable limits of division (B) above, may be operated
upon a public street or highway in this municipality, subject to inspection
under W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48; provided, that any motor vehicle which has been
altered from the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the bumper height for
that vehicle’s make and model within the allowable limits of division (A) above
shall be exempt from the inspection requirements hereunder and may be operated
upon a public street or highway in this municipality subject to provisions of
W. Va. Code Art. 17C-16. Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on
crash report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the crash.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.187 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road, or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   A sun screening device, when used in conjunction with the windshield,
must be non-reflective and may not be red, yellow, or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   (1)   A sun screening device, when used in conjunction with the
automotive safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located
at the immediate right and left of the driver, shall be a non-reflective type
with reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not
less than 35%.
      (2)   The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may
have a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety
glazing materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a
reflectivity of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing
behind the driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (F)   (1)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section.
      (2)   The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so afflicted,
or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported in the
motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes, and multi-
purpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTI-PURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power,
except a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      NON-REFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather
than to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multi-purpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle, or trailer designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.188 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   (1)   A person may not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street
or highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the term PASSENGER VEHICLE means
a motor vehicle which is designed for transporting 15 passengers or less,
including the driver, except that the term does not include a motorcycle, a
trailer, or any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the
enactment of this section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be
equipped with a belt system.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after January 1, 1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (B)   The required use of safety belts as provided in this section does not
apply to a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States
Postal Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or
operator with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would
prevent appropriate restraint in the safety belt if the condition is duly
certified by a physician who states the nature of the disability as well as the
reason such restraint is inappropriate.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary,
no points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (D)   This section does not abrogate or alter the provisions of §
72.184 relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49) Penalty, see §
72.999
COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 72.200 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route.
      (1)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in W. Va. Code Art. 17C-17 upon any state route within the municipality, except
pursuant to special written permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways, or
upon any local truck route. Every such permit shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
72.202 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle, or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of
vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route
within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order
to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (C)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in division (A) above.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed, or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health, and safety. The Police
Chief may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate
for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “No thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (6)   (a)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms, or conditions of
the permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation
or suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit.
         (b)   Such violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty
prescribed by §
72.999(N).
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.201 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line
of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (B)   A motor home, travel trailer, or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
72.202 if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-3)
§ 72.202 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices, or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (C) or in
division (D) below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist
of more than two units, and no combination of vehicles including any load
thereon shall have an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in
excess of 55 feet except as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as
otherwise provided in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W.
Va. Code § 17C-17-5.
      (2)   The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may
not consist of more than two units may not apply to:
         (a)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount
device used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more
than three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets
the requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
         (b)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (D)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers, of 65 feet.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D)
above, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own motion
or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle length not
to exceed 70 feet.
   (F)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semi-trailer combinations and
truck tractor-semi-trailer- trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways, and
further, as to other highways so designated by the State Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows.
      (1)   The maximum length of a semi-trailer unit operating in a truck
tractor-semi-trailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet in length except
where semi-trailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37 feet between the
rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the semi-trailer, such
semi-trailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in length and the
maximum length of any semi-trailer or trailer operating in a truck tractor-
semi-trailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length, and in no
event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck tractor.
      (2)   Provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an overall
length limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semi-trailer or truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combinations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (G)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code
Art. 17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways, or on any street or highway having
a minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (H)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation, may operate on any street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.203 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.204 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery, or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-7)
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
§ 72.215 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.216 DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.217 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   (A)   No more than three persons, including the operator, shall ride or be
permitted by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor
vehicle while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways
of this municipality.
   (B)   Provided, however, that the limitation of this section shall not apply
to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the occupancy of
four persons including the operator, and so designated on the registration card
by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area of
a motor vehicle, see §
72.036
§ 72.218 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride nor shall the operator permit any passenger to ride
on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being operated
on the streets or highways of this municipality.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.219 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business may not
follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm
or other emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm or other emergency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized
emergency vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by
displaying alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue
lights, or amber or yellow warning lights, shall:
      (1)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible,
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
      (2)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle,
maintaining a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any non-divided highway or
street and 25 mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if
changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
§ 72.220 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-10) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.221 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. These terms have the same
meaning as set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-6-4.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or non-law
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery, or other
location at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held,
including a funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (B)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (B)(3) below, shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a funeral
escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         (b)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         (c)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (C)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law, or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (D)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury, or property
damage suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession
may not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment, or their
employees or agents, unless the death, personal injury, or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment, or their employees or agents.
   (E)   Equipment.
      (1)   All non-law enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral lead
vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing lamp
exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens.
      (2)   Flashing amber or purple lights may be used when such vehicles are
used in a funeral procession.
(W. Va. Code Art. 17C-23)
§ 72.222 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   (A)   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available
to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so.
   (B)   No person shall any person leave a door open on the side of a motor
vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load or unload passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.223 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.224 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designated or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.225 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that:
   (A)   The vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped
position that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking, or chattering noise
unusual to its normal operation; or
   (B)   Whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the
roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.226 TAKING, INJURING, TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without
consent of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner
of his or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the
vehicle. The consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall
not in any case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a
previous occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a
different person.
      (2)   Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice, in any such unauthorized taking or driving shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-4)
   (B)   (1)   No person, either individually or in association with one or
more persons, shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or
remove any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
      (2)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury, or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes, or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended, or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.227 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN, OR CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.228 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine, or
both.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.229 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley, or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.230 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.231 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or any
part thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.232 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle on any
street or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free
flow of motor vehicle traffic except in compliance with a lawful order of a
police officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal, or
marking.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.233 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   (A)   (1)   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain
security upon such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code Art. 17D-2A.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly drive or operate on any street within the
municipality any motor vehicle upon which security is required by such article
unless the security is provided.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 17D-2A,
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.234 LITTERING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw, or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped, or thrown:
      (1)   Any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or upon any
public or private highway, road, street, or alley; or
      (2)   Any private property, any public property, or the waters of the
state or within 100 feet of the waters of this state, except in a proper litter
or other solid waste receptacle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LITTER means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof, or any other offensive or unsightly matter,
but not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging, saw
milling, farming, or manufacturing.
   (C)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it cannot be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-14) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.235 ELECTRONICALLY DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMARTWATCH. A wearable computer that provides a local touchscreen for
daily use, associated with applications, and connected to a cellular or Wi-Fi
network.
      STANDALONE ELECTRONIC DEVICE. A portable device other than a wireless
telecommunications device which stores audio or video data files to be
retrieved on demand by a user.
      UTILITY SERVICES. Electric, natural gas, water, wastewater, cable,
telephone or telecommunications services, or the repair, location, relocation,
improvement, or maintenance of utility poles, transmission structures, pipes,
wires, fibers, cables, easements, rights-of-way, or associated infrastructure.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
         (a)   One of the following portable devices:
            1.   A cellular telephone;
            2.   A portable telephone;
            3.   A text-messaging device;
            4.   A personal digital assistant;
            5.   A standalone computer including, but not limited to, a tablet,
laptop, or notebook computer;
            6.   A handheld global positioning system receiver;
            7.   A device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image; and/or
            8.   Any substantially similar portable wireless device that is
used to initiate or receive communication, information, or data.
         (b)   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a
smartwatch; any type of radio, including, but not limited to, radios used by
first responders or school bus operators; citizens band radio or radio hybrid;
commercial two-way radio communication device or its functional equivalent,
subscription-based emergency communication device; prescribed medical device;
amateur or ham radio device; or any built-in vehicle equipment for security,
navigation, communications, or remote diagnostics.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use a wireless telecommunications device without the
use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the feature or
function with a single touch or single swipe.
   (B)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device or two-way radio while loading or unloading
passengers.
   (C)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device while the bus is in motion, nor while stationary in
traffic nor at a traffic control signal, unless that device is being used in a
similar manner as a two-way radio to allow live communication between the
driver and school officials or public safety officials.
   (D)   A driver shall exercise due care in operating a motor vehicle on the
highways of this state and shall not engage in any actions involving any
standalone electronic device or wireless telecommunications device that
distracts such driver from the safe operation of the vehicle.
   (E)   While operating a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property
open to the public for vehicular traffic in this state, no driver may:
      (1)   Physically hold or support, with any part of his or her body, a
wireless communication device or standalone electronic device; provided, that
such prohibition shall not apply to the wearing of a smartwatch;
      (2)   Write, send, or read any text-based communication including, but
not limited to, a text message, instant message, e-mail, or social media
interaction on a wireless telecommunications device or standalone electronic
device; provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to a voice-operated or
hands- free communication feature which is automatically converted by such
device to be sent as a message in a written form;
      (3)   Make any communication involving a wireless telecommunications
device, including a phone call, voice message, or one-way voice communication;
provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to a voice operated or hands-
free communication feature or function;
      (4)   Engage in any form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data
communication on a wireless telecommunications device or standalone electronic
device;
      (5)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into any website,
search engine, or application on a wireless telecommunications device or
standalone electronic device;
      (6)   Watch a video or movie on a wireless telecommunications device or
standalone electronic device other than watching data related to the navigation
of such vehicle;
      (7)   Record, post, send, or broadcast video, including a video
conference on a wireless telecommunications device or standalone electronic
device; provided, that such prohibition does not apply to electronic devices
used for the sole purpose of continuously recording or broadcasting video
within or outside of the motor vehicle; and/or
      (8)   Actively play any game on a wireless telecommunications device or
standalone electronic device.
   (F)   While operating a commercial motor vehicle on any highway of this
state, no driver may:
      (1)   Use more than a single button on a wireless telecommunications
device to initiate or terminate a voice communication; and/or
      (2)   Reach for a wireless telecommunications device or standalone
electronic device in such a manner that requires the driver to:
         (a)   No longer be in a seated driving position; or
         (b)   No longer be properly restrained by a safety belt.
   (G)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   It is a misdemeanor for any driver to violate any of the provisions of
this section. Every driver convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of
the provisions of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   For a first conviction with no prior conviction of and no plea of
no contest accepted to a charge of violating this section within the previous
24-month period, as measured from the date of any prior conviction or plea, a
fine of not more than $100;
      (2)   For a second conviction within a 24-month period, as measured from
the date of any prior conviction or plea, a fine of not more than $200;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent conviction within a 24-month period, as
measured from the date of any prior conviction or plea:
         (a)   A fine of not more than $350;
         (b)   Three points on the driver’s record maintained by the Division
of Motor Vehicles; and
         (c)   At the court’s discretion, suspension of the driver’s license
for a period of 90 days.
      (4)   Any driver who causes physical harm to property as the proximate
result of committing a violation of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable up to 30 days in jail or a fine not less than $100 and not more than
$500;
      (5)   Any driver who causes serious physical harm to another person as
the proximate result of committing a violation of this section shall be
punished in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15(h)(5); and
      (6)   Any driver who causes the death of another as the proximate result
of committing a violation of this section is guilty of negligent homicide and
shall be punished in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5-1.
   (I)   The Department of Transportation shall cause to be erected signs upon
any highway entering the state on which a “welcome to the state” sign is
posted, and any other highway where the Division of Highways deems appropriate,
posted at a distance of not more than one mile from each border crossing, each
sign to bear an inscription clearly communicating to motorists entering the
state that texting, or the use of a wireless communication device without
hands-free equipment, is illegal within this state.
   (J)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
   (K)   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance
shall contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment
of any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this section, as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
   (L)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Drivers reporting to state, county, or local authorities a traffic
accident, medical emergency, fire, an actual or potential criminal or
delinquent act, or a road condition that causes an immediate and serious
traffic or safety hazard;
      (2)   An employee or contractor of a utility services provider acting
within the scope of his or her employment while responding to a utility
emergency;
      (3)   A driver operating a commercial vehicle while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (4)   A law enforcement officer, firefighter, emergency medical services
personnel, ambulance driver, or other similarly employed public safety first
responder during the performance of his or her official duties; or
      (5)   While in a motor vehicle that is lawfully parked.
   (M)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-
3a or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor vehicles
prescribed either by the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17E-1-1 et seq. or by
federal law or rule.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15) Penalty, see §
72.999
LICENSING GENERALLY
§ 72.250 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to
be driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to
be registered under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for, or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein.
   (B)   (1)   Provided, that in the event of the sale of a vehicle by a person
other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the same may, for a
period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under the registration
of its previous owner and display the registration thereof.
      (2)   Provided further, that he or she shall have and display on the
demand of any proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so
to use such registration.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.251 REGISTRATION CARD.
   (A)   Every such registration card shall at all times be carried in the
vehicle to which it refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in
control of such vehicle who shall display the same upon demand of a police
officer or any officer or employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Carrying and displaying an electronic or mobile registration card
issued by the Division satisfies the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-13)
§ 72.252 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible, and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration, as defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-10-
1, may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-15)
§ 72.253 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked, upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon, or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this traffic code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year, except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Ch. 17A.
   (B)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed, or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department, whichever is earlier; provided, that no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of this
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the State Police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.254 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE, PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate, or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates, or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.255 DRIVER, MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, may
drive a motor vehicle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, used by the public generally unless the person has a valid
driver’s license issued pursuant to the state code for the type or class of
vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle pursuant to the
state code may exercise the privilege thereby granted in the manner provided in
the state code and, except as otherwise provided by law, is not required to
obtain any other license to exercise the privilege by a county, municipality,
or local board or body having authority to adopt local police regulations.
   (B)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, may drive a
motorcycle on a street or highway in this municipality or on a subdivision
street, used by the public generally unless the person has a valid motorcycle
license, a valid license which has been endorsed under W. Va. Code § 17A-2-17b
for motorcycle operation, or has a valid motorcycle instruction permit.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.256 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
72.255:
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country, unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of this
state, may operate a motor vehicle in this state only as a non-commercial
driver for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (C)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the
person’s immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in
the person’s home state or country and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains, or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession, or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (B) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as a non-commercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place or places of business, or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession, or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade,
profession, or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a
resident of the state over the age of 18 years, the resident would not be
required under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17 to obtain a Class A, B, C,
or D driver’s license. However, this division (C) shall not exempt any person
who is required to obtain a state driver’s license in accordance with the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1a;
   (D)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of Pub. Law No. 99-
570 and unless the Commissioner determines the person’s home state or country
does not extend the same privilege to a resident of this state may operate a
motor vehicle in this state either as a commercial driver subject to the age
limits applicable to commercial driver in this state, or as a non-commercial
driver subject to the limitations imposed on non-resident drivers in divisions
(B) and (C) above; and
   (E)   (1)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in
an accredited school, college, or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (B) and (C) above, may operate motor vehicle in this
state only as non-commercial driver; provided, that the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of this
state.
      (2)   This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college, or university, or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-2)
§ 72.257 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer, or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   However, no person charged with violating this section shall be
convicted if such person produces in court or the office of the arresting
officer a driver’s license, theretofor issued to such person and valid at the
time of such person’s arrest.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-9)
§ 72.258 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, or non-operator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or non-
operator’s identification, to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, or non-operator’s identification, not issued to him or her;
   (D)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for:
      (1)   A driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or non-operator’s
identification; or
      (2)   Knowingly make a false statement or knowingly conceal a material
fact or otherwise commit a fraud in any such application.
   (E)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license,
or non-operator’s identification, issued to him or her; and/or
   (F)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
traffic code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.259 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of
this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been
lawfully suspended or revoked.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.260 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her, or under his or her control, to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
§ 72.275 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol, and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port, or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute for malt;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol,
ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures
thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W. Va. Code Art. 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17E-1-9(d).
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport 16 or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials as
defined in this section.
   CONVICTION.
      (1)   An unvacated adjudication of guilt; a determination that a person
has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative tribunal or proceeding;
      (2)   An unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure
the person’s appearance in court;
      (3)   A plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court or the
payment of a fine or court cost; or
      (4)   Violation of a condition of release without bail regardless of
whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended, or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following three actions:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a driver’s license
by the state or jurisdiction of issuance.
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control other than parking or
vehicle weight, except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations.
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. part 391 (2004).
   DRIVE. To drive, operate, or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in
any place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic. For
purposes of §
72.280, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle
anywhere in this municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial driver license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including full-time,
regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent, or occasional drivers; and/or
      (2)   Leased drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors (while
in the course of operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly
employed by or under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the United States, a state, or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to the farm
owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively in the transportation
of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock, poultry, and dairy
products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or produced to
markets, processing plants, packing houses, canneries, railway shipping points,
and cold storage plants and in the transportation of agricultural or
horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards to be used
thereon.
   FARMER. Includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or person in control of
the premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits, who
is at least 18 years of age with two years’ licensed driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, and who is at least 18 years of age with two years’
licensed driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement officer, an
authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian, Mexican, county,
or local jurisdiction, including any special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72, 392.5, 395.13, and
396.9, or compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-service criteria
that an imminent hazard exists.
   VIOLATION OF AN OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out of service;
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out of service and before the required repairs are made; or
      (3)   The operation of any commercial vehicle by a motor carrier
operation after the carrier has been placed out of service.
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into or reading text from an
electronic device.
      (1)   This action includes, but is not limited to, short messaging
service, e-mailing, instant messaging, and a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry for present or future communication.
      (2)   TEXTING does not include:
         (a)   Reading, selecting, or entering a telephone number, an extension
number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device for
the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call, or using voice commands to
initiate or receive a telephone call;
         (b)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         (c)   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions
including, but not limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices,
smart phones, citizen band radios, or music players for a purpose that is not
otherwise prohibited by this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4)
§ 72.276 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver’s license at one time.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.277 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W. Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (B)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit, require, or authorize a
driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which the
driver:
      (1)   Has a driver’s license suspended, revoked, or canceled by a state;
has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle in a state; or has
been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Has more than one driver’s license at one time;
      (3)   The commercial motor vehicle he or she is driving or the motor
carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order;
      (4)   Is in violation of federal, state, or local law or regulation
pertaining to railroad highway grade crossings; or
      (5)   Is in violation of any provision of 49 C.F.R. part 382 related to
controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
   (C)   No employer may require or allow a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle while texting. (W. Va. Code § 17E-1-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.278 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle they are driving.
   (B)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while their driving
privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (C)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle shall have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.279 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this subchapter only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, or farm supplies to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (B)   Military personnel. Active duty military personnel operating vehicles
being used for military purposes are exempted from the provisions of this
subchapter in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R. § 383.3(c) (2006).
   (C)   Firefighting and rescue equipment.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles authorized to hold an authorized emergency
vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only are exempt from the provisions
of this subchapter while the authorized emergency vehicle permit is in force.
      (2)   Vehicles in this class include, but are not limited to,
firefighters and rescue equipment:
         (a)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal fire
departments;
         (b)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal civil defense
organizations;
         (c)   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of
business that requires firefighter equipment to protect the safety of their
plants and its employees; and/or
         (d)   Owned and operated by volunteer fire departments.
   (D)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment.
      (1)   Operators of equipment which, by its design, appearance, and
function, is not intended for use on a public road, including, without
limitation, motorscrapers, backhoes, motorgraders, compactors, excavators,
tractors, trenches, and bulldozers, are exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Provided, that the exemption recognized by this division (D) shall
not be construed to permit the operation of such equipment on any public road,
except such operation as may be required for a crossing of such road; provided,
however, that no such equipment may be operated on a public road for a distance
exceeding 500 feet from the place where such equipment entered upon the public
road.
   (E)   Exempt vehicles. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of
1999 exempts vehicles used exclusively for personal use such as recreation
vehicles and rental trucks used only to transport the driver’s personal or
household property.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-8)
§ 72.280 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   A person who violates the provisions of §
72.999(P)(2) shall be treated in the same manner set forth in W. Va. Code §
17C-19-3, as if he or she had been arrested for driving under the influence of
alcohol or of any controlled substance.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the state code or these
codified ordinances, a person who drives, operates, or is in physical control
of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such person’s
system or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine such
person’s blood alcohol content as provided by W. Va. Code § 17E-1-15 shall be
placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.281 COMMERCIAL DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM TEXTING.
   (A)   No commercial driver may engage in texting while driving a commercial
motor vehicle.
   (B)   No motor carrier may allow or require its drivers to engage in texting
while driving a commercial motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   For the purposes of this section only, and unless a more
restrictive prohibition is prescribed in the state code, DRIVING means
operating a commercial motor vehicle with the motor running, including while
temporarily stationed because of traffic, a traffic control device, or other
momentary delays.
      (2)   DRIVING does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with
or without the motor running when the driver moved the vehicle to the side of
or off a highway, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5, and halted in a location
where the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14(a)) Penalty, see §
72.999
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.295 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR ATV. Any motor vehicle, designed for off-highway
use and designed to travel on not less than three low-pressure tires, having a
seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control and intended by the manufacturer to be used by a single
operator or by an operator and no more than one passenger.
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle manufactured with no more than two wheels
and having a seat or a saddle for the use of the operator.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for off-highway use and includes
all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and off-road
vehicles.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle that is suitable for off-road use. It
includes a four-wheel drive vehicle, such as a Jeep, pickup, or sport utility
vehicle. It also includes a specially designed, modified, or customized off-
road vehicle that is of a similar size to a vehicle manufactured for highway
use.
      UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with four or more low-pressure
tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating for each
occupant and a steering wheel for control.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES and VEHICLE, or the
plural, mean all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and
off-highway vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-9)
§ 72.296 ACTS PROHIBITED BY OPERATOR.
   (A)   No all-terrain vehicle may be operated in this municipality:
      (1)   On any interstate highway except by public safety personnel
responding to emergencies;
      (2)   On any road or highway with a centerline or more than two lanes
except for the purpose of crossing the road, street, or highway, if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         (c)   The operator yields his or her right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (d)   Both the headlight and taillight are illuminated when the
crossing is made if the vehicle is so equipped.
      (3)   With more than one passenger unless more passengers are allowed
under manufacturers’ recommendations;
      (4)   With a passenger under the age of 18, unless the operator has at a
minimum a level of two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or is 18
years of age or older;
      (5)   Unless riders under the age of 18 are wearing size appropriate
protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications established
by the American National Standards Institute Standard Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, or
Snell Safety Standards for protective headgear for vehicle users;
      (6)   Anytime from sunset to sunrise without an illuminated headlight or
lights and taillights;
      (7)   Without a manufacturer-installed or equivalent spark arrester and a
manufacturer-installed or equivalent muffler in proper working order and
properly connected to the vehicle’s exhaust system; or
      (8)   Unless operating in compliance with the provisions of §
72.297.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated upon the shoulder, or as far to
the right on the pavement as possible when there is not enough shoulder to
safely operate, on any road, street, or highway referred to in division (A)(2)
above other than an interstate highway for a distance not to exceed ten miles
to travel between a residence or lodging and off-road trails, fields, and areas
of operation, including stops for food, fuel, supplies, and restrooms, if:
      (1)   The vehicle is operated at speeds of 25 mph or less; and
      (2)   The vehicle is operated at any time from sunset to sunrise the all-
terrain vehicle must be equipped with headlights and taillights which must be
illuminated.
   (C)   Operation of an all-terrain vehicle in accordance with division (B)
above shall not constitute operation of a motor vehicle on a road or highway of
this municipality as contemplated by the provisions of §
72.301.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter to the contrary, the
municipality may authorize the operation of all-terrain vehicles on certain
specified roads, streets, or highways which are marked with centerline pavement
markings, other than interstate highways, to allow participation in parades,
exhibitions, and other special events, in emergencies or for specified
purposes.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-1)
§ 72.297 SAFETY AWARENESS COURSES.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 2005, no person under the age of 18 may
operate an all-terrain vehicle without a certificate of completion of a vehicle
rider awareness course as offered or approved by the Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above do not apply to the operation of
an all-terrain vehicle on any private or public recreational trail or area or
affiliated trail or area operated by any person or entity which has in place a
safety program.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-2)
§ 72.298 RENTAL DEALERS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any person or entity renting or leasing all-terrain vehicles for
recreational purposes must provide protective helmets as defined by the
provisions of §
72.296(A)(5), to all persons using such vehicles who are under the age of 18
and offer protective helmets to all persons 18 and older using the rented or
leased vehicles.
   (B)   Provided, that for the provisions of this section to be applicable,
the age and identity of the users of the all-terrain vehicle must be disclosed
to the person or entity providing the rented or leased vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-4)
§ 72.299 PRIVATE PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
   Except as provided by the provisions of §
72.296(A)(3) through (A)(5), and except as provided by the provisions of §
72.297, the provisions of this subchapter do not apply if the all-terrain
vehicle is operated exclusively on lands owned or leased by the vehicle owner
or on private lands of others with the owner’s permission.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-5)
§ 72.300 EXEMPTION FOR FARM, COMMERCIAL USE; CURRENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by the provisions of §
72.296(A)(4) and (A)(5), nothing in this subchapter may be construed to
preclude or limit the use or operation of all-terrain vehicles for lawful non-
recreational commercial purposes, including, but not limited to, farm use, oil,
and gas operations, timbering, surveying, and public utilities access.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter may be construed to supersede or contravene
the provisions of any agreement between the state and any private or
governmental entity entered into prior to the effective date of this
subchapter, or any lawfully promulgated legislative rule, including any
emergency legislative rule, regulating the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-6)
§ 72.301 APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road or
highway of this municipality shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and this
traffic code except where inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter,
and except as to those provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and this traffic code
which by their nature can have no application.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, a motor vehicle
operator’s license is not required of an operator of an all-terrain vehicle
when he or she is operating said vehicle in conformity with the provisions of §
72.296(A)(2) or (B), except when the operator is under the age of 18 and is
transporting a passenger under the age of 18.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-7)
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES AND DEVICES
§ 72.315 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE CARRIER. An electrically powered device that:
      (1)   Is operated on sidewalks and crosswalks and is intended primarily
for transporting property;
      (2)   Weighs less than 100 pounds, excluding cargo;
      (3)   Has a maximum speed of 12.5 mph; and
      (4)   Is equipped with a technology to transport personal property with
the active monitoring of a property owner and primarily designed to remain
within 25 feet of the property owner.
   PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE.
      (1)   An electrically powered device that:
         (a)   Is operated on sidewalks, crosswalks, and roadways, and is
intended primarily for transporting goods and cargo; and
         (b)   Is equipped with technology to allow for operation of the device
with or without the active control or monitoring of a natural person.
      (2)   A PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE is not considered a vehicle unless
expressly defined by law as a vehicle.
      (3)   A mobile carrier is not considered a PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-24-1)
§ 72.316 RULES FOR PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICES AND MOBILE CARRIERS.
   (A)   (1)   A personal delivery device or mobile carrier may operate on
sidewalks and crosswalks.
      (2)   A personal delivery device or mobile carrier operating on a
sidewalk or crosswalk has all the rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian
under the same circumstances, except that the personal delivery device or
mobile carrier shall not unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic,
and shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on the sidewalk or crosswalk.
   (B)   Personal delivery devices and mobile carriers shall:
      (1)   Obey all official traffic and pedestrian control signals and
devices;
      (2)   For personal delivery devices, include a plate or marker that has a
unique identifying device number and identifies the name and contact
information of the personal delivery device operator; and
      (3)   Be equipped with a braking system that, when active or engaged,
enables the personal delivery device or mobile carrier to come to a controlled
stop.
   (C)   Mobile carriers shall not:
      (1)   Operate on a public highway except to the extent necessary to cross
a crosswalk;
      (2)   Operate on a sidewalk or crosswalk unless the mobile carrier owner
is actively controlling or monitoring the navigation and remains within 25 feet
of the mobile carrier;
      (3)   Transport hazardous materials as defined in R.S.A. 259:40; or
      (4)   Transport persons or animals.
   (D)   Personal delivery devices shall not:
      (1)   Operate at speeds in excess of 12 mph on sidewalks;
      (2)   Operate at speeds in excess of 20 mph on roadways;
      (3)   Operate unless the navigation and operation is being monitored or
controlled by an operator; or
      (4)   Transport hazardous materials that are regulated under the
Hazardous Materials Transportation Authorization Act of 1994 (49 U.S.C. §§ 5101
through 5128) and must be placarded under 49 C.F.R. §§ 172.500 through 172.560.
   (E)   A local authority may not regulate the operation of a personal
delivery device on a highway or sidewalk in a manner that is inconsistent with
this subchapter, including, but not limited to, restricting the hours or zones
of operation.
   (F)   A person who owns and operates a personal delivery device in this
state shall maintain an insurance policy, on behalf of himself or herself and
his or her agents, which provides general liability coverage of at least
$100,000 for damages arising from the combined operations of personal delivery
devices under the entity’s or agent’s control.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-24-2)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.001 after being involved in a crash resulting in physical injury but not
death to any person shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or fined not
more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(1) above, any driver
who is involved in a crash in which another person suffers serious bodily
injury and who intentionally violates §
72.001 when he or she knows or has reason to believe that another person has
suffered physical injury in said crash, is guilty of a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B)(2) above, any driver who is involved
in a crash that proximately causes the death of another person who
intentionally violates §
72.001 when he or she knows or has reason to believe that another person has
suffered physical injury in said crash, is guilty of a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who drives a vehicle in the municipality while he or
she is in an impaired state, and such impaired state proximately causes a
bodily injury to any person other than himself or herself, as described in §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not less than one day nor more than one year, and shall be
fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000, and shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for a period of two years or for a period of time conditioned
on participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the person has previously been convicted under §
72.020, the person shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle
revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for life or for a
period of time conditioned on participation in the Test and Lock Program in
accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Any jail term imposed pursuant to this
division (C) shall include actual confinement of not less than 24 hours;
provided, however, that a person sentenced pursuant to this division (C)(1)
shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
      (2)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private
road in the municipality who commits any of the follows, along with the
provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be
confined in jail for up to six months and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle
revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of
six months or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the Test and
Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that a
person sentenced pursuant to this division (C)(2) shall receive credit for any
period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject
offense:
         (a)   While he or she is in an impaired state; or
         (b)   While he or she is in an impaired state but has an alcohol
concentration in his or her blood of less than 0.0015%, by weight.
      (3)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private
road in the municipality while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or
her blood of 0.0015% or more, by weight, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than two days nor
more than six months, which jail term is to include actual confinement of not
less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000,
and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or for
a period of time conditioned on participation in the Test and Lock Program in
accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. A person sentenced pursuant to this
division (C)(3) shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or
she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
      (4)   (a)   Any person who, being a habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamines, or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle on any public highway
or private road in this state is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than one day nor more than six
months, which jail term is to include actual confinement of not less than 24
hours, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of six months.
         (b)   A person sentenced pursuant to this division (C)(4) shall
receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
      (5)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in the municipality by any other person who
is in an impaired state is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have his or her license
to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor
Vehicles for a period of six months or for a period of time conditioned on
participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a.
      (6)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in the municipality, as outlined in §
72.020, by any other person who is a habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamines, or any derivative thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than six months and
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for a period of six months.
      (7)   (a)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle on
any public highway or private road in the municipality while he or she has an
alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0002% or more, by weight, but
less than 0.0008%, by weight, for a first offense under this division (C)(7) is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $100, and shall have his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle suspended by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles
for a period of 60 days or for a period of time conditioned on participation in
the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. For a
second or subsequent offense under this division (C)(7), the person is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for 24
hours and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or until the person’s
twenty-first birthday, whichever period is longer, or for a period of time
conditioned on participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W.
Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. A person who is charged with a first offense under the
provisions of this division (C)(7) may move for a continuance of the
proceedings, from time to time, to allow the person to participate in the Test
and Lock Program as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Upon successful
completion of the program, the court shall dismiss the charge against the
person and expunge the person’s record as it relates to the alleged offense. In
the event the person fails to successfully complete the program, the court
shall proceed to an adjudication of the alleged offense. A motion for a
continuance under this division (C)(7) may not be construed as an admission or
be used as evidence.
         (b)   1.   Notwithstanding division (C)(7)(a) above, a person shall
have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle suspended or revoked for a
minimum period of one year or for a period of time conditioned on participation
in the Test and Lock Program, in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a, if
the person:
               a.   Has previously been convicted under this division (C)(7)(b)
and is subsequently convicted of an offense under another division of this
section; or
               b.   Is convicted under this division (C)(7) and has previously
been convicted of an offense under this division (C).
            2.   Nothing in this division (C)(7)(b) permits a shorter period of
license revocation, license suspension, or participation in the Test and Lock
Program than is mandatory for the specific offense for which the person is
convicted.
         (c)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the
provisions of divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), (C)(5), or (C)(6) above
may not also be charged with an offense under this division (C)(7) arising out
of the same transaction or occurrence.
      (8)   (a)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or
private road in the municipality while he or she is in an impaired state and
has within the vehicle one or more persons who are unemancipated minors who
have not yet reached their sixteenth birthday is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than two days
nor more than 12 months, and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by
the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or
for a period of time conditioned on participation in the Test and Lock Program
in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that such jail term shall
include actual confinement of not less than 48 hours; provided, however, that a
person sentenced pursuant to this division (C)(8) shall receive credit for any
period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject
offense.
         (b)   A person convicted of an offense under this section who has
previously been convicted of any offense under this section on one occasion is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail
for not less than six months nor more than one year, may be fined not less than
$1,000 nor more than $3,000, and shall have his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for
ten years or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the Test and
Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the
second conviction is for an offense as described in division (C)(1) above and
the division creating the offense requires a period of incarceration, period of
license revocation, or fine that is greater than what is required for a
conviction under this division (C)(8), the greater period of incarceration,
period of revocation, or fine shall be imposed; provided, however, that this
division (C)(8) does not apply to a second conviction that is subject to a
period of license revocation under division (C)(7) above.
      (c)   For purposes of this division (C)(8) relating to second offenses,
the following events shall be regarded as offenses and convictions under this
section:
            1.   Any conviction under the provisions of divisions (C)(1), (C)
(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), (C)(5), or (C)(6) above, or under a prior enactment of
this section, for an offense which occurred within the ten-year period
immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current proceeding;
            2.   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of this state or
any other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in divisions (C)
(1), (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), (C)(5), or (C)(6) above which offense occurred
within the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the
current proceeding; and
            3.   Any period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17C-5-2b for violation of division (C)(2) above, which violation
occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in
the current proceeding.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.022 shall, for a first offense, be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$500, or imprisoned not less than five nor more than 30 days; and for a second
or subsequent offense, shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $1,000, or
imprisoned not less than ten nor more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (D)(1) above, any person
convicted of a violation of §
72.022 who, in doing so, proximately causes another to suffer serious bodily
injury shall be confined in jail not less than ten days nor more than 30 days,
or fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or both.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(2) above, SERIOUS BODILY INJURY means
bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which causes serious
or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health, or prolonged loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.035 through
72.037 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-3)
   (F)   (1)   General subchapter penalty. Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.050 through
72.055 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   Speeding.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (F)(2), any person
who violates the provisions of §
72.050 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction, within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$500; provided, that if such third or subsequent conviction is based upon a
violation of the provisions of §
72.050 where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more, then the
person shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
that if such conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more in
the presence of one or more children, then the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both;
provided, that if the signage required by §
72.050(B)(1) is not present in the school zone at the time of the violation,
then any person who violates said provision shall be fined not more than $25.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1)
      (3)   Street racing.
         (a)   1.   Whoever violates §
72.053 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100; for a second
offense, fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense, fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
            2.   For the purposes of this section, a forfeiture of bail or
collateral deposited to secure such person’s appearance in court, which
forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent to a final conviction.
         (b)   If at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
72.053 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in this state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if such person be a
non-resident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
72.259 shall be applicable.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8)
      (4)   Waste service vehicles.
         (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.055 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $300.
         (b)   If the person convicted of violating §
72.055 exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more or caused serious injury or
death to a service vehicle worker, then the person shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $1,000 or confined in jail for not more than 30 days, or
both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11)
   (G)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.070 through
72.081 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (H)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.095 through
72.104 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (I)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.115 through
72.120 shall be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $300; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-6)
   (J)   Any person driving a vehicle specified in §
72.137 or a vehicle that requires a commercial driver’s license who fails to
comply with the requirements of §
72.137 is guilty of a misdemeanor. Provided, that if the electric or mechanical
signal device is malfunctioning, this division (J) shall not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3)
   (K)   (1)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever
violates §
72.140 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Stopping for school bus. Any driver acting in violation of §
72.141(A) for a first offense, shall be fined not less than $500 or more than
$1,000, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
Upon conviction of a second violation of §
72.141(A), the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500,
or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined. Upon
conviction of a third or subsequent violation of §
72.141(A), the driver shall be fined $2,000 and confined not less than 48 hours
in jail but not more than 30 days.
      (3)   Stopping for passenger van. Any driver acting in violation of §
72.142(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §
72.142(B) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this traffic code to the contrary.
   (L)   (1)   General article penalty. Unless otherwise provided for in §§
72.155 through
72.188, any person violating any provision of §§
72.155 through
72.188 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Brakes. Any person violating §§
72.173 or
72.174 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-6)
      (3)   Sun screening devices. Whoever violates §
72.187 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
      (4)   Safety belts. Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.188 shall be fined not more than $25. No court costs or other fees shall be
assessed for a violation of §
72.188.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49)
      (5)   Child passenger safety devices.
         (a)   Any person who violates any provision of §
72.184 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
         (b)   A violation of §
72.184 does not by virtue of the violation constitute evidence of negligence or
contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil action or
proceeding for damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46)
   (M)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.215 through
72.235 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who violates §
72.219(B) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both fined and imprisoned.
         (b)   If violation of §
72.219(B) results in property damage in addition to any other penalty imposed,
driving privileges of the persons causing the property damage shall be
suspended for 90 days.
         (c)   If violation of §
72.219(B) results in injury to another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the injury shall be
suspended for six months.
         (d)   If violation of §
72.219(B) results in the death of another person in addition to any other
penalty imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the death shall
be suspended for two years.
         (e)   Any person who violates §
72.219(B) and while doing so also violates §
72.020 shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
      (3)   Whoever violates §
72.226 shall, for a first offense, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-11-1)
      (4)   Whoever violates §
72.233 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17D-2A-9)
      (5)   (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.235 is guilty of a traffic offense and shall, for a first offense, be fined
$100; for a second offense, be fined $200; and for a third or subsequent
offense, be fined $300. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a
violation of §
72.235.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the
contrary, points may not be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of §
72.235, except for the third and subsequent convictions of the offense, for
which three points shall be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
         (c)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or
highway while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense. Driving or
operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while using a cell
phone or other electronic communication device without hands-free equipment
shall be enforced as a secondary offense until July 1, 2013, when it shall be
enforced as a primary offense for purposes of citation.
         (d)   Nothing contained in §
72.235 shall be construed to authorize seizure of a cell phone or electronic
device by any law enforcement agency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15)
   (N)   (1)   General subchapter penalty. Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.250 through
72.260 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$500; for a second or subsequent violation of the same provision, such person
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Driving under suspension or revocation.
         (a)   1.   Except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3(b) or
(d), or divisions (N)(2)(b) or (N)(2)(c) hereof, whoever drives a motor vehicle
on any street or highway of this municipality at a time when his or her
privilege so to do has been lawfully suspended or revoked shall, for the first
offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second
offense, such person, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for
the third or any subsequent offense, such person shall be imprisoned for a
period of 30 days and, in addition to such mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $150 nor more than $500.
            2.   A record of the conviction of any person under this division
(N) upon a charge of driving a vehicle while the license of such person was
suspended lawfully shall be sent to the state Department of Motor Vehicles.
         (b)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or other drugs, or any
combination thereof, or for driving while having an alcoholic concentration in
his or her blood of 0.00125% or more by weight, or for refusing to take a
secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, for the first offense, shall
be imprisoned 30 days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, shall be
imprisoned 30 days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.00125%, by weight, shall be
imprisoned for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500,
or both; for the second offense, the person shall be confined in jail for a
period of 30 days, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500;
for the third or any subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the
provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to
any period of incarceration required by this division (N).
      (3)   Additional penalties. Whoever violates §§
72.251,
72.252,
72.254,
72.257, or
72.260 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (O)   (1)   Unless another penalty is provided in §§
72.275 through
72.281, whoever violates any provision of §§
72.275 through
72.281 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned
for not more than 30 days, or both, except that for the second violation of §
72.278, the offender shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third or any subsequent
conviction for violation of §
72.278, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,500,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-25)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the state code or
these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates, or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in
his or her blood, breath, or urine of 0.0004% or more by weight, as stated in §
72.280, shall be imprisoned for not less than 24 hours nor more than 30 days,
and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person convicted of
a second or any subsequent offense under the provisions of this division (O)
shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days, and the court may, in its
discretion, impose a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14)
   (P)   (1)   Except as provided in the provisions of division (P)(2) below
and in addition to any other legal remedy for violation of civil or criminal
provisions of this chapter, any person who violates the provisions of §§
72.295 through
72.301 or who owns or has control over an all-terrain vehicle and knowingly
permits it to be used in violation of the provisions of §§
72.295 through
72.301 shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   Any parent, legal guardian, or person who has actual responsibility
for a child under 18 years of age who knows or should have known the child is
operating or is a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle without a helmet, as
required by the provisions of §
72.296, shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   For a first offense, a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$100, or not more than ten hours of community service, or both;
         (b)   For a second offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$200, or not more than 20 hours of community service, or both; and
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than $200
nor more than $500, or not more than 100 hours of community service, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-8)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
   
73.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
73.03   Prohibited stopping, standing, parking places
   
73.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
73.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
73.06   Accessible parking
   
73.07   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
73.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.09   Truck loading zones
   
73.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
73.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
73.12   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Duty to stop engine, set brake on grade, and remove key, see §
72.173
   Impounding of abandoned vehicles, see §
70.21
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parallel and angle parking, see W. Va. Code § 17C-13-4
   Authority to regulate the standing or parking of vehicles, see W. Va. Code §
17C-2-8(a)(1)
§ 73.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence
district, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or
highway when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such
part of the street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the
street or highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be
available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or
street.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
73.01, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-2)
§ 73.03 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (14)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (15)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing, or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (16)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (17)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (18)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (19)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking space; and
      (20)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park, or leave standing unattended
any vehicle on a private road or driveway or on private property without having
express or implied permission from the owner, tenant, or lessee of such land.
The owner, tenant, or lessee of such private road or driveway or private
property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked, or left standing
unattended on his or her private road, driveway, or private property as above
prohibited without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle, nor shall
he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done to such
vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant, or lessee of such private road
or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing the
removal of the vehicle.
   (B)   The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the persons removing
such vehicle for paying all removal costs. Any person who removes any vehicle
under the provisions of this section shall notify the State Police of such
action, and, in addition, notify the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-13) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case, the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (B)   This division (B) does not apply to streets or parts thereof where
angle parking is lawfully permitted. However, no angle parking shall be
permitted on a state or federal-aid route unless approved by the State
Commissioner of Highways.
   (C)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSIBLE PARKING. Formerly known as HANDICAPPED PARKING, is the present
phrase consistent with language within the American with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. A facility whose operations affect commerce and
which are intended for non-residential use by a private entity.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL. Includes any law enforcement officer as
defined by W. Va. Code § 30-29-1, and private security guards, parking
personnel, and other personnel authorized by a city, county, or the state to
issue parking citations.
      PERSON OR APPLICANT WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. A person who is a citizen
of the state and, as determined by a physician, allopath, or osteopath
chiropractor, advanced nurse practitioner, or physician’s assistant licensed to
practice in the state:
         (a)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest;
         (b)   Cannot walk without the use of or assistance from a brace, cane,
crutch, prosthetic device, wheelchair, other assistive device or another
person;
         (c)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the
person’s force (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
         (d)   Uses portable oxygen;
         (e)   Has a cardiac condition to such an extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV
according to standards established by the American Heart Association; or
         (f)   Is severely limited in his or her ability to walk because of an
arthritic, neurological, or other orthopedic physical condition.
      PLACE(S) OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A facility or facilities operated by a
private entity whose operations affect commerce and fall within at least one of
the following categories:
         (a)   Inns, hotels, motels, and other places of lodging;
         (b)   Restaurants, bars, or other establishments serving food or
drink;
         (c)   Motion picture houses, theaters, concert halls, stadiums, or
other places of exhibition or entertainment;
         (d)   Auditoriums, convention centers, lecture halls, or other places
of public gatherings;
         (e)   Bakeries, grocery stores, clothing stores, hardware stores,
shopping centers, or other sales or rental establishments;
         (f)   Laundromats, dry cleaners, banks, barber and beauty shops,
travel agencies, shoe repair shops, funeral parlors, gas or service stations,
offices of accountants and attorneys, pharmacies, insurance offices, offices of
professional health care providers, hospitals, or other service establishments;
         (g)   Terminals, depots, or other stations used for public
transportation;
         (h)   Museums, libraries, galleries, or other places of public display
or collection;
         (i)   Parks, zoos, amusement parks, or other places of recreation;
         (j)   Public or private nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate
or post-graduate schools or other places of learning, and day care centers,
senior citizen centers, homeless shelters, food banks, adoption agencies, or
other social service establishments; and
         (k)   Gymnasiums, health spas, bowling alleys, golf courses, or other
places of exercise or recreation.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. State or local government or any department, agency,
special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a state or local
government.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. All or any part of any buildings, structures, sites,
complexes, roads, parking lots, or other real or personal property, including
the site where the facility is located.
      REGULAR REGISTRATION FEE. The standard registration fee for a vehicle of
the same class as the applicant’s vehicle.
      REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD (PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY). A two-sided,
hanger style placard measuring three inches by nine and one-half inches, with
all of the following on each side:
         (a)   The international symbol of access, measuring at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, in white on a blue background for
permanent designations and in white on a red background for temporary
designations;
         (b)   An identification number measuring one inch in height;
         (c)   An expiration date in numbers measuring one inch in height for a
temporary placard; and
         (d)   The seal or other identifying symbol of the issuing authority.
      SPECIAL REGISTRATION PLATE. A registration plate that displays the
international symbol of access, as adopted by the Rehabilitation International
Organization in 1969 at its Eleventh World Congress on Rehabilitation of the
Disabled, in a color that contrasts with the background, in letters and numbers
the same size as those on the plate, and which may be used in lieu of a regular
registration plate.
   (B)   (1)   An accessible parking space should comply with the provisions of
the Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines, contained in 28
C.F.R. part 36, appendix A, § 4.6. In particular, the parking space should be a
minimum of eight feet wide with an adjacent eight-foot access aisle for vans
having side mounted hydraulic lifts or ramps, or a five-foot access aisle for
standard vehicles.
      (2)   Access aisles should be marked using diagonal two- to four-inch-
wide stripes spaced every 12 or 24 inches apart along with the words “no
parking” in painted letters which are at least 12 inches in height. All
accessible parking spaces should have a signpost in front or adjacent to the
accessible parking space displaying the international symbol of access sign
mounted at a minimum of eight feet above the pavement or sidewalk and the top
of the sign. Lines or markings on the pavement or curbs for parking spaces and
access aisles may be in any color, although blue is the generally accepted
color for accessible parking.
   (C)   A vehicle displaying a disabled veterans special registration plate
issued pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17A-3-14(c)(6) shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this section.
   (D)   A vehicle from any other state, United States territory, or foreign
country displaying an officially issued special registration plate, placard, or
decal bearing the international symbol of access shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this section, regardless of where the
plate, placard, or decal is mounted or displayed on the vehicle.
   (E)   Stopping, standing, or parking places marked with the international
symbol of access shall be designated in close proximity to all public entities
including state, county, and municipal buildings and facilities, places of
public accommodation, and commercial facilities. These parking places shall be
reserved solely for persons with a mobility impairment and disabled veterans at
all times.
   (F)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid, unexpired
special registration plate or removable windshield placard may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided, that this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing, or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of any political subdivision of this state is contrary to the
provisions of this section, the provisions of this section take precedence and
apply.
      (2)   The parking privileges provided for in this division (F) apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment.
   (G)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand, or park
a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned, or marked for accessible parking
with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of access,
either by itself or with explanatory text. The signs may be mounted on a post
or a wall in front of the accessible parking space and instructions may appear
on the ground or pavement, but use of both methods is preferred. Accessible
parking spaces for vans having an eight-foot adjacent access aisle should be
designated as “van accessible” but may be used by any vehicle displaying a
valid special registration plate or removable windshield placard.
   (H)   All signs that designate areas as “accessible parking” or that display
the international symbol of access shall also include the words “Up to $500
fine.”
   (I)   Parking enforcement personnel who otherwise enforce parking violations
may issue citations for violations of this section and shall reference the
number on the vehicle’s license plate, since the driver normally will not be
present.
   (J)   (1)   Law enforcement agencies may establish a program to use trained
volunteers to collect information necessary to issue citations to persons who
illegally park in designated accessible parking spaces. Any law enforcement
agency choosing to establish a program shall provide for workers’ compensation
and liability coverage. The volunteers shall photograph the illegally parked
vehicle and complete a form, to be developed by supervising law enforcement
agencies, that includes the vehicle’s license plate number, date, time, and
location of the illegally parked vehicle. The photographs must show the vehicle
in the accessible space and a readable view of the license plate.
      (2)   Within the discretion of the supervising law enforcement agency,
the volunteers may issue citations or the volunteers may submit the photographs
of the illegally parked vehicle and the form to the supervising law enforcement
agency who may issue a citation, which includes the photographs and the form,
to the owner of the illegally parked vehicle.
      (3)   Volunteers shall be trained on the requirements for citations for
vehicles parked in marked, zoned, or designated accessible parking areas by the
supervising law enforcement agency.
   (K)   Local authorities who adopt the basic enforcement provisions of this
section and issue their own local ordinances shall retain all fines and
associated late fees. These revenues shall be used first to fund the provisions
of division (J) above, if adopted by local authorities, or otherwise shall go
into the local authorities’ General Revenue Fund. Otherwise, any moneys
collected as fines shall be collected for and remitted to the state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-6)
§ 73.07 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is inoperative
and which has been abandoned on public property for any period of time over
five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed salvage yard or
at the business establishment of a demolisher; or any motor vehicle, or major
part thereof, which has remained on private property without consent of the
owner or person in control of the property for any period of time over five
days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is unattended,
discarded, deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed building, a
licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher.
         (b)   Provided, that a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, shall not
be considered an abandoned motor vehicle if:
            1.   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
            2.   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
            3.   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor
vehicle being stored; and
            4.   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the state
and not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for
sale.
      ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, and motorcycles.
      PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, or
society and the plural as well as the singular.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-1)
   (B)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited. No person shall, within this
municipality, abandon a motor vehicle or major part thereof upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property, or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property,
or upon property owned or controlled by that person, unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or a business
licensed to do business in the state and not in the primary business of
offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising;
   (C)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and
   (D)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency, or used car sales
agency.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or
pickup and loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
   (B)   In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand, or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   (1)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle
upon any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and
posted as such.
      (2)   This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (A)   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle,
testimony that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully
parked as prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further
testimony that the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the
license plate was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that
the vehicle which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant.
   (B)   A certified copy of registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles
shall be proof of such ownership.
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.12 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $100;
upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more
than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more
than $500.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who knowingly exercises, or attempts to exercise,
these privileges as set forth in §
73.06 at a time when the vehicle is not being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment and, upon first conviction thereof, in
addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined
$200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or
she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent
convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $500.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
73.06(G) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he
or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent
convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $500.
         (c)   No person may stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated or marked off as an access aisle adjacent to a van-accessible
parking space or regular accessible parking space, as described in §
73.06. Any person, including a driver of a vehicle displaying a valid removable
windshield placard or special registration plate, who violates the provisions
of this division (A)(2)(c) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to
any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon
third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he
or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-6)
      (2)   Whoever violates §
73.07 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both.
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
Section
Pedestrians
   
74.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
74.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
74.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
74.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
74.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
74.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
74.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
74.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
74.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
Bicycles
   
74.20   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
74.21   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
74.22   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
74.23   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
74.24   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
74.25   Carrying articles
   
74.26   Lights and reflector on bicycle; brakes
   
74.27   Reckless operation; control, course, and speed
   
74.28   Bicycle helmets for children
   
74.29   Electric bicycles
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle defined, see §
70.01
   Moped equipment and operation, see §
72.182
   Pedestrian defined, see §
70.01
   Pedestrian control signal, see §
71.18
   Pedestrians at traffic signal, see §
71.17
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate bicycle operation, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(8)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 74.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections, as
provided in §
71.17, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a))
§ 74.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down,
or stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within
a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
74.03(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-2)
§ 74.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-3)
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-4)
§ 74.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right-half of
crosswalks.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-5)
§ 74.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic control device or flagger.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-8)
§ 74.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W. Va. Code § 5-15-5)
§ 74.09 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
70.01 and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-1)
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Front, rear, and side reflectors;
      (2)   A braking system that enables the operator to bring the device to a
controlled stop; and
      (3)   If operated at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a white light that sufficiently
illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   (1)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway, or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians.
      (2)   An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2) Penalty, see §
74.99
BICYCLES
§ 74.20 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway, or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-1) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.21 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by
their nature can have no application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-2)
§ 74.22 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-3) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.23 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-4) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.24 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride in the lane marked for bicycle use or, if no lane is marked for
bicycle use, as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   (a)   When reasonably necessary to avoid any condition or potential
conflict including, but not limited to, a fixed or moving object, parked or
moving vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, turn lane, or
substandard-width lane, which makes it unsafe to continue along the right-hand
curb or edge or within a bicycle lane.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (A), a SUBSTANDARD-WIDTH LANE
is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way roadway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such
roadway as practicable.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-5)
§ 74.25 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.26 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (A)   (1)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all
distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-7) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.27 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE, AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers, and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
74.25; and
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.28 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE.
         (a)   A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame.
         (b)   Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of this state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear, or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
(W. Va. Code § 17-11A-3)
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-4)
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (A) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-5)
   (D)   Civil actions.
      (1)   A violation of division (B) above is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) above shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.29 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of an electric bicycle has all of the rights and
privileges and is subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle subject to this chapter, except as otherwise provided by this section
and except as to those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can
have no application.
   (B)   A person owning or operating an electric bicycle is not subject to the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17A-1-1 et seq., 17B-1-1 et seq., or 17D-1-1 et
seq., relating to registration, title, driver’s license, and financial
responsibility requirements.
   (C)   A person may not tamper with or modify an electric bicycle so as to
change the motor-powered speed capability or motor engagement between pedal-
assist and throttle-assist types of engagement. If a motor on an electric
bicycle is modified so that a limit established in §
70.01 is exceeded, that vehicle is no longer an electric bicycle. The
provisions of this division (C) are not applicable to a modified electric
bicycle operated solely and exclusively on a person’s own property.
   (D)   An electric bicycle must comply with the equipment and manufacturing
requirements for bicycles adopted by the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission (16 C.F.R. part 1512).
   (E)   The motor on an electric bicycle must disengage or cease to propel the
electric bicycle when the operator stops pedaling, or when the operator applies
the brakes and stops pedaling.
   (F)   A Class 3 electric bicycle must be equipped with a speedometer that
displays the speed the electric bicycle is traveling in miles per hour.
   (G)   Class 2 electric bicycles are permitted to use a throttle to propel
the bicycle.
   (H)   Electric bicycles operated on public roadways, public bicycle paths,
public multi-use paths, and other public rights-of-way where bicycles are
permitted to travel are subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   (a)   Class 1 and Class 2 electric bicycles being used on roads and
trails where traditional, non-electronic bicycle use is allowed will be given
the same rights and privileges of a traditional, non-electric bicycle and will
be subject to all of the duties of a traditional, non-electric bicycle.
         (b)   This rule intends to facilitate increased access to public lands
that may otherwise be inaccessible to those with disabilities, health issues,
or age-related limitations.
      (2)   A Class 3 electric bicycle may not be operated on a bicycle path,
multi-use trail, or single-use trail unless it is within a highway or roadway;
provided, that the provisions of this division (H)(2) are not applicable to a
bicycle path, multi-use trail, or single-use trail if the municipality, local
authority, or governing body of a state agency that has jurisdiction over the
bicycle path, multi-use trail, or single-use trail expressly permits that
operation.
      (3)   Electric bicycles will not be given special access beyond what
traditional or non-electric bicycles are allowed. For example, electric
bicycles will not be allowed on roads or trails or in areas where traditional,
non-electric bicycle travel is prohibited.
      (4)   This division (H) may not be construed to limit the authority of
the owner of a private way or the owner of private property to restrict or
allow the operation of electric bicycles on the way or property.
   (I)   Age restrictions related to the operation of electric bicycles are as
follows:
      (1)   A person under 16 years of age may not operate a Class 3 electric
bicycle; and
      (2)   A person under 15 years of age who is an operator or passenger on
an electric bicycle shall wear a properly fitted and fastened bicycle helmet,
pursuant to the Child Bicycle Safety Act, W. Va. Code §§ 17C-11A-1 et seq.
   (J)   A person under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances shall
not operate a Class 1, Class 2, or Class 3 electric bicycle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-8) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
74.01 through
74.09, for which no other penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than
$100.
      (2)   Upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined
not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-7)
      (3)   (a)   An operator who violates a provision of §
74.09 shall receive a warning for the first offense.
         (b)   For a second or subsequent offense, the operator shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $10 and not greater than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.99, any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
74.28(B) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program which includes injury
prevention education, or both fined and required to perform such community
service.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court
costs may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
74.28(B).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
74.28(B), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
74.28 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-2-1
(c). Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s Highway Safety Program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-7)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Noise Pollution
   
90.01   Declaration of policy
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Loud, unnecessary noises prohibited
   
90.04   Certain loud and disturbing noise enumerated
   
90.05   Measurement, control of noise
   
90.06   Applicability
   
90.07   Exceptions, special waivers
   
90.08   Enforcement
Dangerous Nuisances on Public or Private Property
   
90.20   Spillage or seepage of toxic substances
   
90.21   Garbage, refuse, waste, ashes, trash, or overgrown vegetation
   
90.22   Derelict cars or automobiles
   
90.23   Notice of violations
   
90.24   Resolutions and restorations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NOISE POLLUTION
§ 90.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The town, finding that excessive levels of sound are detrimental to the
physical, mental, and social well being of the citizens of the town as well as
to their comfort, living conditions, general welfare, and safety, hereby
declares it to be necessary to provide for the greater and more effective
regulation of excessive sounds through the adoption of noise control.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is
designated db(A) or dBA.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motor vehicle designed for off-highway use
and designed for operator use only with no passengers, having a seat or saddle
designed to be straddled by the operator, and handlebars for steering control.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, demolition, or similar action.
   CONTINUOUS SOUND. A sound the intensity of which remains essentially
constant during a given period of time. CONTINUOUS SOUND shall be measured by
the slow response setting of a sound level meter.
   DAYTIME. The local time of day between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on weekdays and between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Saturdays,
Sundays, and local legal holidays.
   DBA (DECIBEL-A-WEIGHTED). Sound pressure level as measured on the “A” scale
of a sound level meter manufactured in accordance with the specifications of
the American National Standards Institute, Inc. (ANSI), Type 2, ANSI-S1, 4
(1971), calibrated with two hours of being used for measurement. Unless
otherwise noted, measurements shall be made in the slow response mode of the
meter.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
   EMERGENCY SIGNAL DEVICE. Any audible warning device, such as a gong,
whistle, or siren, or any air horn or any similar device.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
   IMPULSIVE SOUND. Sound of short duration, usually less than one second, with
an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of IMPULSIVE SOUND include
explosions, drop forge impacts, and discharge of firearms.
   MOBILE SOURCE. Any moving sound source on a public right-of-way.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in the Traffic Regulation Code of the state, or
any vehicles which are propelled or drawn by mechanical equipment, such as, but
not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semi-trailers, campers,
motorcycles, mini-bikes, go-carts, snowmobiles, mopeds, amphibious craft on
land, dune buggies, all-terrain vehicles, or racing vehicles.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a trailer.
   NIGHTTIME. Those hours excluded from the definition of the DAYTIME.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause adverse psychological effect on humans, such as loud music, inappropriate
use of an engine retarder or “Jake brake,” race cars, loud speakers, or as
otherwise identified herein.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities;
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
      (4)   Exceeds the applicable maximum permissible sound levels as the
appear in the table.
   NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE. Any area designated for the purpose of ensuring
exceptional quite and shall include schools and churches while the same are in
use, any hospital, and any nursing home; provided, that conspicuous signs are
displayed on the exterior realty of any such school, church, hospital, or
nursing home which clearly notifies a member of the general public of its use.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, or any legal
successor, representative, or agent of the foregoing.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, alley,
sidewalk, or public space which has been dedicated for the use by the general
public and the dedication of which has been accepted by the appropriate
governmental entity.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. An imaginary line along the ground surface and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by another person,
but it does not include intra-building real property division.
   SMALL POWER EQUIPMENT. Any motorized or engine powered device, including,
but not limited to, lawn mowers, lawn and garden tools, riding lawn tractors,
and power saws, excluding other motor vehicles.
   SOUND.
      (1)   Vibratory disturbance (including an oscillation) in the pressure
and or density of a liquid or gas or in the particular displacement of a solid
or liquid.
      (2)   Such disturbance takes place at a rate between approximately 20 and
20,000 hertz (cycles per second), and the physiological perception of such a
vibration of displacement.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.
      (1)   Any machine or device for the amplification of the human voice,
music, or any other sound.
      (2)   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT, as used herein, shall not be construed
as including standard automobile radio when used and heard only by occupants of
the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on authorized emergency
vehicles or horns, or other warning devices on other vehicles used only for
traffic safety purposes.
   SOUND LEVEL. That which is measured with the “A” weighting network on a
sound level meter unless otherwise specified.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. The instrument meeting the requirements of ANSI SL.4-1971
Type II rating, used for making sound level measurements.
   SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by
sound energy.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The intensity in decibels (dB) of a sound.
   STATIONARY SOURCE. Any sound source operating or occurring on any public or
private property, not including a public right-of-way.
   WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
   ZONING DISTRICT. The scheme of land use classification contained in the town
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 90.03 LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any loud,
unnecessary, or unusual noise, or any noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others
within the town.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CERTAIN LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISE ENUMERATED.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary
noises, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing
frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
persons in the vicinity;
   (B)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to created loud
and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
   (C)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
snowblower, small power equipment, or similar device used outdoors in
residential areas between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following
day so as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary;
   (D)   Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show,
or sale;
   (E)   Engine repair and testing. It shall be unlawful for any person to
repair, rebuild, or test any engine so as to create a noise disturbance;
   (F)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (G)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the town, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any
such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of
any such device for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of
any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any
horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any
signaling device when traffic is, for any reason, held up;
   (H)   Loudspeakers/public address system.
      (1)   Using or operating for any non-commercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:
00 a.m. the following day, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone.
      (2)   Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device such that the sound therefrom creates
a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or within a noise sensitive
zone; or between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. the following day on a
public right-of-way or public space.
   (I)   Radios, musical instruments, and similar devices. Operating, playing,
or permitting the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph,
drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device which produces,
reproduces, or amplifies sound:
      (1)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day in
such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real property boundary
or within a noise sensitive zone (except for activities open to the public and
for which a permit has been issued by “appropriate authority” according to
criteria set forth in the town code);
      (2)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet from
such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-way or
public space, or in a boat on public waters; or
      (3)   In such manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person other
than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a common
carrier.
   (J)   Yelling and shouting. Yelling, shouting, whistling, hooting, or
generally creating a racket on public rights-of-way or public spaces between
the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. the following day so as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of the persons in any business or
residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
(Ord. 93-33, passed 11-16-1993; Ord. passed 10-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 MEASUREMENT, CONTROL OF NOISE.
   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any noise
in excess of the noise levels set forth herein unless such noise be reasonably
necessary to the preservation of life, health, safety, or property.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 APPLICABILITY.
   The provision of this subchapter shall not apply in using any of the sound
equipment mentioned and described herein where such equipment is being used for
civil defense or in the event of a disaster or other emergency, or is being
used by any governmental agency or at any public meeting.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 90.07 EXCEPTIONS, SPECIAL WAIVERS.
   (A)   Exceptions. The following uses of an activity shall be exempt from
noise level regulations:
      (1)   Noise of safety signals and warning devices;
      (2)   Noise resulting from any authorized vehicle when responding to an
emergency;
      (3)   Noises resulting from the provisions of municipal services;
      (4)   Any noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and/or for which a waiver has been granted by the town;
      (5)   The unamplified human voice (except as specified);
      (6)   Parades and public gatherings for which a special waiver has been
issued; and
      (7)   Bells, chimes, and carillons while being used for religious
purposes or in conjunction with religious services, or for national
celebrations or public holidays, and those bells, chimes, and carillons that
are presently installed and in use for any purpose.
   (B)   Exemptions for time to comply.
      (1)   Upon good cause shown by the owner or responsible party for any
noise source, the Mayor shall have the power to grant an exemption from the
requirements of this subchapter in order to allow sufficient time for
installation of needed control equipment, facilities, or modifications to
achieve compliance, not to exceed ten days; provided, that such exemption may
be renewed as necessary, but only if satisfactory progress toward compliance is
shown.
      (2)   A request for exemption shall be filed in writing with the Mayor.
   (C)   Use exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from
noise level regulations.
      (1)   Lawn maintenance equipment when it is functional within the
manufacturer’s specifications and with all mufflers and noise reducing
equipment in use and in properly operating condition between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      (2)   Non-amplified crowd noises resulting from the activities such as
those planned by day care
centers, schools, governmental or community groups.
      (3)   Amplified announcements or electronically amplified announcements
at athletic or special events from 8:00 a.m. to 12:01 a.m.
   (D)   Special waivers.
      (1)   The Mayor shall have the authority, consistent with this
subchapter, to grant special waivers; provided, that no live bands should be
allowed in single-family residence zoning districts.
      (2)   (a)   Any person seeking a special waiver pursuant to this
subchapter shall file a written application with the Mayor.
         (b)   The written application shall contain information which
demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity for which the
special waiver is sought into compliance with this subchapter would constitute
an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community, or for another
purpose.
      (3)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the Mayor
shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community, and other persons
of not granting the special waiver against the adverse impact of granting the
special waiver.
      (4)   (a)   1.   Special waivers shall be granted by notice to the
applicant and may include all necessary conditions, including time limits on
the permitted activity.
            2.   The special waiver shall not become effective until all
conditions are agreed to by the applicants.
         (b)   Non-compliance with any condition of the special waiver shall
terminate it and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this
subchapte regulating the source of sounds or activity for which the special
waiver was granted.
      (5)   The Town Manager may issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for special waivers and the criteria in declaring whether
to grant a special waiver.
   (E)   Social gatherings and parties.
      (1)   Any person who is planning a social gathering or party at which it
is anticipated that the noise levels will exceed those set forth in §
90.05 herein may file a written application with the Town Manager for a special
waiver from such noise levels.
      (2)   Any person seeking such a special waiver shall indicate in his or
her application to the Town Manager the specific reason why he or she will not
be able to meet the established noise levels. The applicant shall also include
a written statement that he or she has personally contacted all residents of
properties within 400 feet of the property in question and none oppose the
special waiver being requested. For purposes of the preceding sentence, an
applicant will also be required to notify and receive permission from the
applicant’s landlord, if the property in question is a rental property.
      (3)   Should the applicant be granted a special waiver pursuant to this
section, it will be subject to the condition that any such special waiver will
expire at 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday evenings, and midnight on
Friday and Saturday evenings.
(Ord. 97-11, passed 6-3-1997; Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 90.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person who violates any portion of this subchapter shall receive a
verbal order to cease or abate the noise immediately or within a reasonable
time period, except that after 8:00 p.m. and until 8:00 a.m. any person
designated to enforce this subchapter need not issue a verbal order to cease or
abate the noise before charging any person with a violation of this subchapter.
If the order to cease or abate the noise is not complied with, or is complied
with then violated again within 60 days, the person or persons responsible for
the noise under Section 527.03 shall be charged with a violation of this
subchapter and be subject to the fine provided in §
90.99.
(Ord. 93-33, passed 11-16-1993; Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
DANGEROUS NUISANCES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 90.20 SPILLAGE OR SEEPAGE OF TOXIC SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful to allow the spillage of or seepage of toxic substances
on private or public property in the town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 GARBAGE, REFUSE, WASTE, ASHES, TRASH, OR OVERGROWN VEGETATION.
   It shall be unlawful to allow the accumulation of garbage, refuse, waste,
ashes, trash, or overgrown vegetation on private or public property in the
town.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 DERELICT CARS OR AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, store, collect, or in any way
possess, derelict cars or motor vehicles, motorhomes, tractors, semi-tractors,
trailers, ATVs, motorcycles, busses, boats junk cars, throw-away cars,
discarded cars, abandoned cars, battered cars, ruined cars, scrap cars,
clunkers, decrepit cars, inoperable cars, and end-of-life vehicles or any other
motor driven vessels in the town.
   (B)   Upon the determination of a majority of the Town Council that any of
the above violations have occurred, then he Town Council may:
      (1)   Order a citation to be issued to the responsible, owner, lessee,
occupant, or any other responsible person or entity, or all the foregoing to
appear in municipal court.
      (2)   Issue a notice to appear before the Municipal Court to the
offending party or parties to remedy the violation within 30 days or an
extended time as determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   Notice of violations shall be given to the owner, lessee, occupant, or any
other person or entity, or all of the foregoing, who is determined to be
responsible for the violation, by either citation, notice being posted upon the
pertinent property by a member of the Police Department or a designee of the
Town Council who is a credible person above the age of 18, by certified mail or
a Class 1 legal notice.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 90.24 RESOLUTIONS AND RESTORATIONS.
   (A)   Should violations remain unresolved after citations or notices have
been given, then the town, after 30 calendar days, shall have the right to
enter upon the property where the violation is occurring and clean up the
property either by its employees or the employment of others. Any costs
incurred by the town in cleaning up the violating property may be assessed
against the responsible owner, lessee, occupant, or any other responsible
person or entity.
   (B)   Further, the town will pursue a civil suit in either County Magistrate
Court or County Circuit Court to collects its costs associated with the
cleaning and restoration of any violating property, along with its attorney
fees and expenses related to the suit. This includes, but is not limited to,
the town placing a lien against the property or owner for any fines imposed,
legal expenses, clean up, or restoration costs that are not paid by the owner.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01 through
90.08 shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 if no specific penalty is provided. Each day such violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
      (2)   As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of device,
instrument, vehicle, or machinery in violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.08, which operation or maintenance causes discomfort or annoyance to
reasonable persons of normal sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort,
repose, health, or peace of residents in the area, shall be deemed, and is
declared to be a public nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a
restraining order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   For violations occurring under §§
90.20 through
90.24 that have not been corrected in the allotted 30 calendar daytime period,
violators will be fined by the municipal court $15 per day, not to exceed $450
per month until such violation is remedied.
(Ord. 93-33, passed 11-16-1993; Ord. passed 10-9-2001; Ord. passed 8-12-2024)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Running at large prohibited
   
91.02   Keeping near a residence, business restricted
   
91.03   Pen, enclosure to be kept clean
   
91.04   Adequate food, water, shelter
   
91.05   Capture, disposition of animals
Dogs
   
91.20   Running at large prohibited
   
91.21   Keeping vicious dogs
   
91.22   Duty of owner, custodian of dog upon biting
   
91.23   Muzzling dogs under proclamation of Mayor
   
91.24   Inducing dogs to fight, annoy persons or animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or being in charge of any cows,
swine, sheep, horses, mules, or goats, or any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys,
or other domestic fowl, cattle, or livestock, to knowingly or negligently
permit any of them to run at large in any street, alley, or unenclosed lot
within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-101) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Town Council to prohibit animals and fowl from running at
large, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(26)
§ 91.02 KEEPING NEAR A RESIDENCE, BUSINESS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall keep any animal or fowl enumerated in §
91.01 within 1,000 feet of any residence, place of business, or public street
without a permit from the Health Officer. The Health Officer (to be appointed
by the Mayor) shall issue a permit only when, in his or her sound judgment, the
keeping of such an animal in a yard or building under the circumstances as set
forth in the application for the permit will not injuriously affect the public
health.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PEN, ENCLOSURE TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   When animals or fowls are kept within the corporate limits, the building,
structure, corral, pen, or enclosure in which they are kept shall at all times
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ADEQUATE FOOD, WATER, SHELTER.
   No animal or fowl of any kind shall be kept or confined in any place where
the food, water, shelter, and ventilation are not adequate and sufficient for
the preservation of its health, safe condition, and wholesomeness for food if
so intended.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 CAPTURE, DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal or fowl found running at large or otherwise being kept in
violation of this chapter may be seized by the Health Officer or by any police
officer and confined in a pound provided or designated by the governing body.
   (B)   If the owner is know, he or she shall be given notice in person, by
telephone, or by a postcard addressed to his or her last-known mailing address,
and the animal or fowl will be humanely destroyed or sold if not claimed within
five days. If the owner is not known, a notice describing the impounded animal
or fowl will be posted in at least three public places within the corporate
limits.
   (C)   The notice shall state that the impounded animal or fowl must be
claimed within five days by paying the pound costs or the same will be humanely
destroyed or sold.
   (D)   If not claimed by the owner within the specified period, the animal or
fowl will be sold, humanely destroyed, or otherwise disposed of as authorized
by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
DOGS
§ 91.20 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No dog, whether wearing a license tag or not, shall be permitted to, and it
shall be unlawful for any dog, to run at large within the town at any time. Any
dog found running at large in violations of this section shall be subject to
impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of the town to prevent animals from running at large, see W. Va.
Code § 8-13-5(26)
   Liability of dog owner for damage done by dog running at large, see W. Va.
Code § 19-20-13
§ 91.21 KEEPING VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog known by him or her to be
vicious, dangerous, or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, whether or
not such dog wears a tag or muzzle, and, upon satisfactory proof that such dog
is vicious, dangerous, or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, the
animal warden or any police officer may cause such dog to be impounded and
disposed of in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DUTY OF OWNER, CUSTODIAN OF DOG UPON BITING.
   Any dog, whether licensed or not, who bites any person shall be taken by its
owner or custodian forthwith to a veterinarian for confinement and observation,
or shall be securely confined on the premises of its owner or custodian and, in
either case, the owner or custodian shall forthwith notify the health officer
of the county wherein his or her premises is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 91.23 MUZZLING DOGS UNDER PROCLAMATION OF MAYOR.
   Whenever it shall be made to appear to the Mayor and/or Council that there
are good reasons for believing that any dog within the town is made, he or she
may issue a proclamation requiring that all dogs shall, for a period to be
defined in the proclamation, wear good, substantial muzzles, securely put on,
so as to prevent them from biting or snapping, and any dog at large, during the
period defined by the Mayor, without such muzzles, shall be taken by the animal
warden and impounded as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 91.24 INDUCING DOGS TO FIGHT, ANNOY PERSONS OR ANIMALS.
   No person shall entice, induce, urge, or cause any dog to engage in or
prolong a fight in the town, and no person shall induce or cause any dog to run
after, bark at, frighten, or bite any person or animal lawfully passing along
or standing in or on any street or highway in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-205) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
91.01 through
91.05 shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $100 for each separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
   (C)   A violation of §§
91.20 through
91.24 shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for each separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Hatfield-McCoy Trail
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibited acts
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   ATV usage, see §§
72.295 through
72.301
HATFIELD-MCCOY TRAIL
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any motor vehicle designed for off-highway
use and designed to travel on not less than three low-pressure tires, having a
seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control and intended by the manufacturer to be used by a single
operator or by an operator and no more than one passenger.
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle manufactured with no more than two wheels
and having a seat or a saddle for the use of the operator.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for off-highway use and includes
all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and off-road
vehicles.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle that is suitable for off-road use. It
includes a four-wheel drive vehicle such as a Jeep, pickup, or sport utility
vehicle. It also includes a specially designed, modified, or customized off-
road vehicle that is of a similar size to a vehicle manufactured for highway
use.
      UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with four or more low-pressure
tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating for each
occupant and a steering wheel for control.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE and VEHICLE, or the
plural, means all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and
off-highway vehicles.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2001)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road
or highway of this state shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C except where
inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter and except as to those
provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C which, by their nature, can have no
application.
      (2)   Any and all ATVs, UTVs, motorcycles, off-highway vehicles, and off-
road vehicles operated in the town must be properly licensed in accordance with
all local, state, and federal rules and regulations. This shall include, but
not be limited to, the rules and regulations as set forth by the Hatfield-McCoy
Trail system.
   (B)   In addition to the local, state, and federal rules and regulations,
the town requires that the following regulations be met by any operator and
passenger of any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and off-road
vehicle.
      (1)   The operator and passengers must be bona fide holders of a valid
Hatfield-McCoy permit and the said permit be conspicuously displayed on the
left side of the driver and passenger helmets.
      (2)   Use of town streets are limited to going to and from the Hatfield-
McCoy Trail access points and various business and services. This excludes joy-
riding and cruising as well as traveling back and forth through the town
numerous times without any business-related purposes.
      (3)   Any operator of any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and
off-road vehicle traveling alone through the town must be at least 16 years of
age or older and possess a valid motor vehicle operator’s license from his or
her home state, in addition to holding a valid Hatfield-McCoy user permit.
      (4)   Any operator that is 18 years of age or younger without a valid
operator’s license must be accompanied by an adult that is 18 years of age or
older that possesses a valid motor vehicle operator’s license from his or her
home state in addition to holding a valid Hatfield-McCoy user permit, and who
either is a parent or guardian of the youth or has the express permission of a
parent or guardian to supervise the youth.
      (5)   No parent, guardian, or supervising adult may allow a child under
the age of 18 years without a valid operator’s license to leave that person’s
sight and supervision while traveling on any street within the town.
      (6)   All ATVs, UTVs, motorcycles, off-highway vehicles, and off-road
vehicles must be maintained in a safe operating condition including front and
rear lights, brakes, exhausts, and free of mechanical defects.
      (7)   All ATVs, UTVs, motorcycles, off-highway vehicles, and off-road
vehicles are prohibited on any street or roadway within the town after 11:00
p.m. Exemptions to this subchapter are by any resolution or declaration made by
the Mayor and/or Town Council to extend the hours of operation for special
activities or for emergency situations in which an extension is deemed
necessary to preserve life.
      (8)   (a)   Nighttime operation of any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway
vehicle, and off-road vehicle after the hours of 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. are
strictly prohibited.
         (b)   Exemptions to this subchapter are by any resolution or
declaration made by the Mayor and or Town Council to extend the hours of
operation for special activities or for emergency situations in which an
extension is deemed necessary to preserve life.
      (9)   Any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle
without at least one working front headlight and rear taillights or any ATV,
UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle that is not equipped
with at least one front headlight and taillight are not permitted to be on any
street or roadway within the town after dark.
      (10)   Any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and off-road
vehicle operating within the town must obey all speed zones within the town.
      (11)   Any person either driver or passenger of any ATV, UTV, motorcycle,
off-highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle may not consume or possess any open
container of any type of alcoholic liquor, non-intoxicating beer, non-
intoxicating craft beer, or wine at any time or any location within the town.
      (12)   The operator and all passengers of any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-
highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle within the town shall wear size-
appropriate protective helmets at all times. All operators and passengers shall
wear helmets that meet the current performance specifications established by
the American National Standards Institute Standard, z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard no. 218, or
Snell Memorial Foundation Safety Standards for protective headgear for vehicle
users.
      (13)   Each operator and passenger of any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-
highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle within the town shall obey all traffic
laws, traffic-control devices, and signs within the town.
      (14)   Every person operating a ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway
vehicle, and off-road vehicle within the town is subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle by the provisions of W. Va. Code §§
17C-1-1 et seq., except where inconsistent with the provisions of this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17C-1-1 et seq.
which, by their nature, can have no application and may not operate a ATV, UTV,
motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle in violation of those
duties.
      (15)   (a)   No child under the age of six years may be allowed on any
ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, or off-road vehicle while traveling
on any street or roadway within the town.
         (b)   No child under the age of eight years who is required to be
placed in a child passenger safety device system meeting applicable federal
motor vehicle safety standards pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46 while
occupying any ATV, UTV, motorcycle, off-highway vehicle, and off-road vehicle
are permitted on any street within the town.
         (c)   All persons operating or riding upon an ATV, UTV, or motorcycle
as defined in W. Va. Code §§ 20-15-l et seq. shall follow the manufacturer’s
recommendations for that vehicle relating to age and size limitations for
operators and passengers.
   (C)   Any person within the town shall not operate a ATV, UTV, motorcycle,
off-highway vehicle, or off-road vehicle in any manner of or competition or
exhibition of speed, acceleration, racing, test of physical endurance, or
climbing ability, and shall not preform wheelies, burnouts, doughnuts, or
controlled spins, or intentionally cause the front steering tire or tires to
become un-intact from the roadway or intentionally cause the rear tire or tires
to spin breaking traction in any matter from the roadway.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2001)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §§
92.01 and
92.02, except for §
92.02(C), is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100.
      (2)   A person who violates §
92.02(C) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2001)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   STORES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, HAWKERS, ITINERANT VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License required; fees levied
   
110.02   Conditions precedent to doing business
   
110.03   Fee for license; permit to do business
   
110.04   Effect of town license
   
110.05   Application for, issuance of license
   
110.06   Designation of specific location of business
   
110.07   Duration of licenses
   
110.08   Posting license
   
110.09   Licenses not transferrable
   
110.10   Exemptions
   
110.11   Assignment of licenses
   
110.12   Effect of changes in firm on licenses
   
110.13   Change of place of business
   
110.14   Revocation, alteration of license
   
110.15   Collection of fees
   
110.16   Collection by distraint
   
110.17   Collection of back taxes
   
110.18   Hearings, appeals
   
110.19   Petition to circuit court
   
110.20   Right of entry of Police Department for inspection
   
110.21   Enforcement
   
110.22   Interference with Police Department prohibited
   
110.23   Tax return information confidentiality
   
110.24   Disposition of money collected
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES LEVIED.
   (A)   No person without a town license shall engage in or prosecute, within
the town, any of the businesses, activities, trades, or employments named in
the following section of this chapter without first obtaining a business
license certificate from the Town Recorder or his or her designee.
   (B)   Persons engaging in or prosecuting other business activities in this
state may also be subject to other provisions of the state code which they must
satisfy before commencing or while engaging in a business activity in this
state. The license fees hereinafter specified are levied on every person
engaging in or prosecuting, within the town, any such businesses, activities,
trades, or employments.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.02 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS.
   Payment in full of the proper fee as specified in this chapter, the issuance
of a certificate of license under the provisions of §
110.05, and the fulfillment of all terms and conditions of such grant shall be
conditions precedent to the transaction of any business, activity, trade, or
employment for which a license is required by this chapter and the state code.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.03 FEE FOR LICENSE; PERMIT TO DO BUSINESS.
   Any business not otherwise provided for in this chapter shall pay an annual
license fees from July 1 of each year until June 30 of the subsequent year in
the amount of $25. These fees are annual, and must be renewed before the
privilege of operating within the corporate limits.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.04 EFFECT OF TOWN LICENSE.
   Nothing in this chapter, and no payment or issuance of any certificate of
license under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which
otherwise may be in violation of any ordinance or law, or to exempt any person
from any penalty prescribed for such violation.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FOR, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license provided for in this chapter shall be issued by the Town
Clerk to any person making proper application and tendering in full the proper
fee as specified herein.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall collect in full the proper fee and determine to
his or her satisfaction that all the conditions precedent to the granting of
such license have been fulfilled by the applicant before issuing a certificate
of license.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.06 DESIGNATION OF SPECIFIC LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   Every certificate of license issued under the provisions of §
110.05 shall designate the location of such business, activity, trade, or
employment at some specified building or other definite place, unless expressly
provided otherwise. Exercising any of the privileges granted by any such
license elsewhere than at such specified building or other definite place shall
be deemed to have been done without a license. Any certificate of license which
does not contain the designation required by this section shall be void.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.07 DURATION OF LICENSES.
   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be for
a period of one year beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of each year.
However, in the event any business, activity, trade, or employment is begun
after the July 1 of any year, a license effective until the following June 30
shall be issued upon the payment of that proportion of the annual fee
designated by this chapter as the number of months remaining until the
following June 30, including the month during which such license is issued,
bears to 12. No license for any purpose for any length of time shall be issued
for less than $25. Each of the provisions of this section shall be deemed
subject to expressly contrary provisions elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.08 POSTING LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person to whom a certificate of license is issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall keep such license posted in a conspicuous
position in the place where the privileges of such licenses are exercised.
   (B)   Such license of license shall be produced for inspection whenever
required by any police officer or other proper town official.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.09 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   (A)   Every business license issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall confer a personal privilege only to transact the business, activity, or
trade, which may be the subject of the business license and shall not be
exercised except by the persons holding the same and shall not be assignable to
any other person.
   (B)   Changes in the name of the person or change of location, or address,
or changes in ownership of the business or changes in real parties of interest
shall be considered a cessation of the business and a new license shall be
required. Changes of partners or members of firms or officers of a corporation
shall not require a new license to be issued.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of Section 413.01 shall not apply to, and no license
fee shall be assessed against or collected from, any educational, literary,
dramatic, musical, or benevolent society, or to socials or other functions
given by churches and other institutions for the benefit of the Fire Department
or the Police Department; provided, that such performances are not conducted
for private profit and do not employ professional or paid talent, other than
the director.
   (B)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting business activity in this town
who does any of the following shall be exempt from both registration and
payment of the tax imposed by this chapter if such person had gross income from
business activity of $4,000 or less during that person’s tax year for state
income tax purposes immediately preceding the registration period for which a
registration license is otherwise required by this chapter:
      (1)   Who is not required by law to collect or withhold a tax
administered under W. Va. Code Art. 10; and
      (2)   Who does not claim exemption from payment of taxes imposed by W.
Va. Code Art. 15 and Art. 15a.
   (C)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business activity in this
state who is required by law to collect or withhold any tax administered under
article ten of this chapter, or who claims exemption from payment of the taxes
imposed by this code, shall be required to obtain a business registration
license, as herein before provided, but shall be exempt from payment of the tax
levied by division (B) above if such person is:
      (1)   A person who had gross income from business activity of $4,000 or
less during that person’s tax year for state income tax purposes immediately
preceding the registration period for which a registration license is required
under this chapter;
      (2)   An organization which qualifies, or would qualify, for exemption
from federal income taxes under I.R.C. § 501, as amended;
      (3)   This state, or a political subdivision thereof, selling tangible
personal property, admissions, or services when those activities compete with
or may compete with the activities of another person;
      (4)   The United States, or an agency or instrumentality thereof, which
is exempt from taxation by the states;
      (5)   A person engaged in the business of agriculture and farming;
provided, that no producer or grower selling products of the farm, garden, or
dairy and not included within the definition of business under subsection (a),
section two of this article shall be required to obtain a business registration
license or pay the business registration tax; and
      (6)   A foreign retailer who is not a retailer engaging in business in
this state as defined in section one, article fifteen-a of this chapter, who
enters into an agreement with the tax commissioner to voluntarily collect and
remit use tax on sales to state customers.
   (D)   Any person required to obtain a business registration license under
this section, who is not exempt from payment of the tax, as provided in
subsection (d) of this section, who does not obtain a registration license
shall, in lieu of paying the penalty imposed by §
110.99, pay a penalty of $50 for which a license is needed; provided, that
application for business registration is made and the applicable money penalty
tendered to the town within 15 days after such person receives written notice
from the town that such person is required to obtain a business registration
license.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.11 ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSES.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may, unless
otherwise specifically provided, be assigned in the manner set out in this
section to any person to whom it might have been originally granted, and in the
event of the death of the licensee, the license may be assigned by his or her
personal representative in like manner and with like effect as might have been
done by the licensee himself or herself. A memorandum of the same shall be
endorsed on the face of the certificate of license by the assignor, and such
memorandum attested by the Town Clerk. If the assignee would have been subject
to a greater fee than the assignor had the license originally been granted to
him or her, such assignment shall be valid only after the payment of the
difference between such two fees, prorated, however, in the same manner as
provided by §
110.07 for the original issuance of licenses.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.12 EFFECT OF CHANGES IN FIRM ON LICENSES.
   No changes in the name of the firm, nor the taking in of one or more new
partners, nor the withdrawal of one or more members of the firm, so long as at
least one member remains the same, shall be considered as terminating the
privileges of any license granted to such partners or firm.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.13 CHANGE OF PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may, unless
otherwise specifically provided, be altered in the manner set out in this
section so as to permit removal of such business, activity, trade, or
employment to another location within the town if it might have been originally
granted under such altered conditions. A memorandum of the same shall be
endorsed on the face of the certificate of license by the holder and attested
by the Town Clerk. If the holder would have been subject to a greater fee at
the date of issuance than he or she actually paid had the license originally
been granted to be exercised at the proposed altered location, such alteration
shall be valid only after the payment of the difference between such two fees,
prorated, however, in the same manner as provided by §
110.07 for the original issuance of licenses.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.14 REVOCATION, ALTERATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked, or
any of the terms and conditions of its issuance altered by Council, upon
written petition of any interested person or upon its own motion, if a showing
is made of violation by the licensee of any of the terms or conditions of the
license, or of any of the provisions of this chapter. Ten days’ written notice
of the proposed revocation and the privilege of being heard in person or by
counsel shall be given the licensee. In the event the license is revoked, any
fee paid on account thereof shall be forfeited to the town.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.15 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   In the event the Town Recorder or his or her designee discovers any person
transacting any business, activity, trade, or employment for which a license is
required by this chapter, without having obtained such license, he or she shall
issue a certificate of license to such person and collect the amount of the fee
due. He or she shall keep a full and accurate record of all the licenses issued
and fees collected by him or her. He or she may require the services of any
member of the Police Department in making collections. The Town Recorder, or
his or her designee, with the approval of Council, may appoint agents to
collect fees required by, or to enforce in any other respect, the provisions of
this chapter. The compensation of such agents shall be paid out of the taxes so
collected.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.16 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The Town Clerk, the Town Recorder, or their designees or deputies, may
distrain upon any personal property, including intangibles, of any person
delinquent in the payment of fees and penalties accrued and unpaid under the
provisions of this chapter. The Town Clerk, the Town Recorder, or their
designees or deputies, may require the assistance of any member of the Police
Department in levying such distress in the town.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.17 COLLECTION OF BACK TAXES.
   (A)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business contrary to
provisions of this chapter, whether without obtaining a license therefor before
commencing the same, or by continuing the same after the termination of the
effective period of such license, shall, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, be liable for the payment of all back business franchise
registration taxes and the additions to tax, penalties, and interest due
thereon and the penalties imposed by this chapter for a period not exceeding
three years.
   (B)   Whenever any person ceases to engage in business within this town by
reason of the discontinuance, sale, or transfer or by any other means of
disposition of the business, it shall be his or her duty to notify the Town
Clerk in writing of the discontinuance, sale, or transfer, or other disposition
of the business, the date thereof, and the name and address of the seller or
transferor and purchaser or transferee thereof.
   (C)   Unless the notice shall have been given to the Town Clerk as above
provided, such seller or transferor and purchaser or transferee shall be liable
to the town for the amount of all taxes, additions to tax, penalties and
interest due and unpaid under the provisions of this chapter or article ten of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.18 HEARINGS, APPEALS.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by the decision of the Town Recorder, or his or
her designee, or of the Town Clerk in refusing to issue any license provided
for in this chapter, in the amount of the fee assessed therefor or in any other
respect, may, within 30 days from the date of such decision, file a written
petition with the Council to review such decision. The Council shall review the
decision of the Town Clerk and in its discretion affirm, reverse, or alter the
same in any respect, and by written notice direct to the Town Clerk to issue or
revoke the certificate of license, or alter any of the conditions or terms of
its issuance to conform to the findings of the Council. The Council, in
reviewing such decision, may administer oaths, take a testimony, require the
attendance of any witnesses having knowledge of the matter in controversy, and
examine any pertinent books, papers, records, memoranda, or equipment of the
petitioner.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.19 PETITION TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   Any person believing to be aggrieved by the decision of the Council under
the provisions of §
110.18 may, within 30 days from the date of such decision, file a petition with
the circuit court of the county to review such decision.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.20 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT FOR INSPECTION.
   Members of the Police Department have the right to enter into and upon the
premises or places wherein any business or activity is being conducted pursuant
to a license therefor from the town, at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspecting the business and determining its compliance with this chapter.
However, this section shall not be construed as purporting to authorize an
unreasonable search and seizure prohibited by § 6, Article III of the
Constitution of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any employee of the town so designated by the Mayor shall have all the
lawful powers delegated to members of the Department of Public Safety to
enforce the provisions of this chapter within the town. Such employee shall,
before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond with
security in the sum of $3,500, payable to the town, conditioned for the
faithful performance of his or her duties as such.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.22 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE DEPARTMENT PROHIBITED.
   No licensee or agent, employee, or member thereof shall interfere with or
obstruct any member of the Police Department or designated employee of the town
from carrying out the provisions of §
110.20 or this section.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.23 TAX RETURN INFORMATION CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when required in an investigation or proceeding to
ascertain or collect amount of tax, interest, penalty, refund, or credit due,
or pursuant to an exemption in W. Va. Code § 11-10-5d, it shall be unlawful for
any officer, employee, or agent of the municipality to divulge or make known in
any manner the tax return, or any part thereof, of any person, or disclose
information concerning the personal affairs of any individual or the business
of any person, or disclose the amount of income or any particulars set forth or
disclosed in any report, declaration, or return required to be filed with the
Town Recorder or otherwise obtained by the municipality in an investigation
undertaken by the Town Recorder, or his or her designee, concerning the tax
imposed by this chapter.
      (2)   Any person protected by the provisions of this chapter may, in
writing, waive the confidentiality provisions of this section for such purpose
and such period as he or she shall therein state. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the publication or release of statistics so classified as
to prevent the identification of particular reports and the items thereof.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town Recorder may permit the proper
officer, or his or her authorized representative or agent, of the United States
or the state, or any political subdivision of the state, to inspect return
information to or may furnish to such officer or representative a copy of any
such return or any other tax return information; provided, that such other
jurisdiction grants similar privileges to this municipality or if the other
jurisdiction is a party of an intergovernmental agreement authorizing the
exchange of such information.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.24 DISPOSITION OF MONEY COLLECTED.
   All money collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be paid into
the town treasury, monthly, by the Town Recorder or his or her designee, and
shall be added to and shall constitute a part of the general fund of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business, activity,
trade, or employment contrary to the provisions of this chapter, whether
without obtaining a license before commencing the same, or by continuing the
same after the termination of the effective period of any such license, shall,
in addition to paying the license fee, be liable for a penalty of $50 for each
month or fraction thereof during which he or she has been in default of the
license fees required by this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk or other officer who issues
the certificate of license to state therein the full amount of the tax thereof
and the penalty separately, and it shall be the duty of the officer charged
with the collection of the tax on such license to collect the full amount
thereof and the penalty.
      (3)   The penalty provided for and required to be paid by reason of
default, as provided for by this section, shall be cumulative and in addition
to all other taxes, penalties, forfeitures, and fines provided for by this
chapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, where no other
penalty is provided, he or she shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $100.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Tax on sale of alcohol
   
111.02   Annual license required
   
111.03   Application for, issuance of license
   
111.04   Revocation of license
Private Clubs
   
111.15   License fee imposed
   
111.16   Duty of license holder
   
111.17   Town Recorder to maintain records of licensees
   
111.18   Revocation of license
Non-Intoxicating Beer
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   License required
   
111.32   License tax; license classes
Retail Liquor Sales
   
111.45   License and fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business licensing generally, see
Ch. 110
   Taxation, see
Ch. 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 TAX ON SALE OF ALCOHOL.
   The town’s tax on the sale of alcohol, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 7-23-1981)
§ 111.02 ANNUAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person licensed by the state pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code
Art. 11-16, whether as a retailer, private club, wholesaler, or brewer of non-
intoxicating beer and who does business as such within this town shall pay to
the town an annual license tax as provided in this chapter. Upon the payment of
each such annual license tax to the town, the licensee shall be issued a town
license corresponding to the state license, which shall be displayed at all
times in a conspicuous place upon the premises thereby licensed. Town licenses
under this chapter shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of the town to license retailers, distributors of non-intoxicating
beer, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-13-4, 11-16-17
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   There is hereby levied and imposed by annual license tax upon all dealers in
or of non-intoxicating beer within the town, which license period shall begin
on July 1 of each year and end on June 30 of the following year, and if granted
for a less period the same shall be computed quarterly in proportion to the
remainder of the fiscal year as follows.
   (A)   Retail dealers shall be divided into three classes, Class A, B, and C.
In the case of Class A retail dealer, the license fee shall be $5 for each
place of business. In the case of Class B dealers with vending machines, the
license fee shall be $15 for each place of business. In the case of Class C
retailers, there shall be two types of a Class C license: The fee for a Class C
license authorizing the sale of unchilled beer only shall be $50, and the fee
for a Class C license authorizing the sale of both chilled and unchilled beer
shall be $100. A Class C license shall authorize the licensee to sell non-
intoxicating beer at retail in bottles, cans, or other sealed containers only,
and only for consumption off the licensed premises. Sales under this license to
any person at any one time must be in less quantities than five gallons. Such
license may be issued only to the proprietor or owner of a grocery store. For
the purpose of this section, the term GROCERY STORE means and includes any
retail establishment commonly known as a grocery store or delicatessen, where
food or food products are sold for consumption off the premises.
   (B)   In the case of a wholesaler, the license fee shall be $80 for each
place of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of the town to tax the sale of non-intoxicating beer, see W. Va.
Code §§ 8-13-4, 11-16-17
   State tax on dealers listed in this section, see W. Va. Code § 11-16-4
§ 111.04 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   All licenses under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
issued by the Town Recorder upon written application therefor verified by the
applicant under oath.
      (2)   Application forms shall be furnished by the town, designed to
elicit all information necessary for the Town Recorder to determine the
eligibility of the applicant for the license applied for, the amount of the
license fee, the location within the town of the premises to be licensed and
whether or not such premises and structures comply with all applicable
provisions of state law, this subchapter, and other ordinances, and it shall be
unlawful and shall constitute false swearing for any applicant to knowingly
make any false statement in any application for license under this subchapter.
   (B)   Before issuing any license hereunder, the Town Recorder may require
the applicant to display his or her corresponding state license.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Form of application for corresponding state license, and as to amount of fee
and posting of bond, see W. Va. Code § 11-16-12
PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 111.15 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   All private clubs, as defined in W. Va. Code § 60-7-2, the premises of which
are situated within the corporate limits of the town and which are operated for
a profit ensuring to the benefit of their owners, shall pay to the town an
annual license fee for a license issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §
60-7, as follows:
   (A)   The annual license fee for a license issued to a private club of this
section shall be $500 if such private club has 1,000 or more members; and
   (B)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1 of any year
and to expire on June 30 of such year shall be one-half of the annual license
fee prescribed by this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of the town to levy and collect a fee from any private club
licensed by the state, the premises of which are within the town, see W. Va.
Code §§ 8-13-7, 60-7-7
§ 111.16 DUTY OF LICENSE HOLDER.
   (A)   Each licensee holding a state license issued under the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 60-7 for a private club, the premises of which are situate within
the town limits, shall, upon first obtaining such license and at the time of
each renewal thereof, report to the Town Recorder and display such state
license to him or her, and pay the town license fee which is imposed upon him
by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any such licensee or any officer,
member, or employee of any private club so licensed, the premises of which
being situate within the town limits, to sell intoxicating liquor upon such
premises unless all fees due to the town, as provided in this subchapter, have
been paid.
   (B)   All such fees shall be paid in the Town Recorder’s office at the Town
Hall on or before June 30 for the ensuing fiscal year, whereupon a license
shall be issued by the Town Recorder, which shall be on such form or forms as
prescribed by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 2-302) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.17 TOWN RECORDER TO MAINTAIN RECORDS OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   The Town Recorder, upon display to him or her of a state private club
license, shall make a record thereof and preserve such record in his or her
office and, upon payment to him or her of the town license fee as prescribed in
this subchapter, he or she shall issue to the licensee a receipt for such
payment, which shall indicate the amount paid, the type of private club and its
address within the town, and expiration date of the license for which such town
license fee has been paid.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each such licensee to maintain such town
receipt on display in a conspicuous place on the premises of the private club
to which it relates.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
§ 111.18 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In the event that any private club license issued by the state, or any
agency thereof, is revoked, then in such event, any license issued under this
subchapter shall be likewise revoked and shall be null and void, without the
necessity of further proceedings hereunder, and the Town Recorder shall note
the fact in his or her records.
(Prior Code, § 2-304)
NON-INTOXICATING BEER
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BREWER. Any person manufacturing, bottling, or otherwise producing non-
intoxicating beer for sale at wholesale.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person jobbing and distributing non-intoxicating beer to
retailers at wholesale.
   GROCERY STORE. Any retail establishment commonly known as a grocery store or
delicatessen, where food or food products are sold for consumption off the
premises.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
      (1)   All cereal malt beverages or products of the brewing industry
commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale, and all other mixtures and
preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt coolers and
containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume, but not more than 0.042% of alcohol
by weight, or 6% by volume, whichever is greater, all of which are hereby
declared to be NON-INTOXICATING.
      (2)   The word LIQUOR, as used in W. Va. Code Ch. 60, shall not be
construed to include or embrace NON-INTOXICATING BEER nor any of the beverages,
products, mixtures, or preparations included within this definition.
   RETAILER. Any person selling, serving, delivering, or otherwise dispensing
non-intoxicating beer at his or her established and licensed place of business.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 111.31 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture, sell, possess for sale, or distribute non-
intoxicating beer within the town, except in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter, and after first obtaining a license therefor.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
§ 111.32 LICENSE TAX; LICENSE CLASSES.
   There is hereby levied and imposed upon all manufacturers and dealers in and
of non-intoxicating beer an annual license tax. The license shall be valid
beginning July 1 of each year and ending June 30 of the following year. If
granted for a shorter period, the license tax shall be computed quarterly in
proportion to the remainder of the fiscal year as follows:
   (A)   (1)   Retail dealers shall be divided into two classes, Class A and
Class B. In the case of a Class A retail dealer, the license fee shall be $150
for each place of business, except that the fee for a social, fraternal or
private club not operating for profit, and having been in continuous operation
for two years or more, immediately preceding the date of application, the
license fee shall be $75.
      (2)   (a)   Class A licenses issued for a social, fraternal, or private
club shall authorize the licensee to sell non-intoxicating beer at retail for
consumption only on the licensed premises where sold.
         (b)   All other Class A licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell
non-intoxicating beer at retail for consumption on or off the licensed
premises.
      (3)   (a)   In the case of a Class B retailer, the license fee shall be
$150 for each place of business. A Class B license shall authorize the licensee
to sell non-intoxicating beer at retail in bottles, cans, or other sealed
containers only and only for consumption off the licensed premises.
         (b)   Sales under this license to any person at any one time must be
in quantities less than five gallons.
         (c)   This license may be issued only to the proprietor or owner of a
grocery store.
   (B)   In the case of a distributor, the license fee shall be $150 for each
place of business.
   (C)   In the case of a brewer with its principal place of business located
in the town, the license fee shall be $500 for each place of manufacture.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
RETAIL LIQUOR SALES
§ 111.45 LICENSE AND FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-3A-12(e) and 8-13-4,
respectively, any person, firm, or corporation desiring to conduct retail sales
of liquor within the corporate limits shall, after first being licensed by the
state pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-3A-l et seq., thereafter
file as an applicant for retail liquor license with the Town Recorder, or his
or her designee.
   (B)   The annual retail license period shall be from July 1 to June 30 of
the following year. The annual municipal license fee, if an applicant holds a
Class A retail license under the state law, shall be the sum of $1,000 per
outlet. The annual municipal retail license fee if an applicant holds a Class B
retail license, shall be $1,000. The annual retail license fee for the initial
year of issuance shall be prorated based on the number of days remaining
between the date of issuance and the following June 30.
   (C)   A retail license shall expire on June 30 of each year and may be
renewed only upon the submission of an application and payment of the required
annual fee to the Town Recorder, or his or her designee, on or before July 1 of
each year on such forms as the Town Recorder and Town Treasurer may prescribe.
   (D)   No person may sell liquor at any retail outlet within the town if the
state retail license applicable to such outlet has been suspended or revoked or
has expired.
   (E)   All retail liquor licenses issued under the provisions of this section
shall expire and be of no further force or effect as of July 1 the year after
they are issued, unless renewed from year to year, as hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of the provisions of §
111.45 shall be punishable by a civil penalty of up to $500, and each day of
non-compliance shall be construed a separate violation of §
111.45.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2007)
CHAPTER 112: STORES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; where obtainable; exemptions
   
112.03   Annual license tax
   
112.04   License tax for half-year or less
   
112.05   Expiration, renewal of license
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCLUDED. For the purpose of this chapter, no coin operated device or
devices shall be construed to be a store.
   GENERAL STORE. Any store or stores or any mercantile establishment or
establishments, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind are
purchased, ordered, sold, or offered for sale either at retail or wholesale.
   PERSON. Any group or combination acting as a unit, individual, committee,
guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, partnership, co-partnership, joint
adventure, association, trust, firm, or corporation, either domestic or
foreign, which is controlled or directed by one management or association of
ultimate management.
   SPECIAL STORE. Any store or store of any mercantile establishment or
establishments, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind except
cigarettes, tobacco products, and soft drinks are purchased, ordered, sold, or
offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which contains no coin-
operated device or devices owned and operated by the store proprietor.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions of state store licensing law as of January 1, 1970, see W. Va.
Code § 11-13A-1
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; WHERE OBTAINABLE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or maintain
any general store or special store in the town without first having obtained a
license so to do from the office of the Town Recorder.
   (B)   The establishment, operation, or maintenance of stores by the
following shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this chapter:
      (1)   The United States of America, the state, and its political
subdivisions;
      (2)   Religious and charitable organizations; and
      (3)   Any person or persons engaged within the town in the business of
producing agricultural products who, individually or collectively, sell in such
store only agricultural products which he, she, or they have products which he,
she, or they have produced.
(Prior Code, § 4-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Same exemptions in state store licensing law as of January 1, 1970, see W.
Va. Code § 11-13A-4
§ 112.03 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   General stores. Every person establishing, operating, or maintaining
one or more general stores within the town under the same general management,
supervision, or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $15 for each such
store.
   (B)   Special stores. Every person establishing, operating, or maintaining
one or more special stores within the town under the same general management,
supervision, or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $5 for each such
store.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see
Ch. 35
Statutory reference:
   Amount of annual license tax for general and special stores under state law
as of January 1, 1970, see W. Va. Code § 11-13A-3
§ 112.04 LICENSE TAX FOR HALF-YEAR OR LESS.
   Each license issued prior to January 1 of any fiscal year shall be charged
for at the full rate, and each license issued on or after January 1 shall be
charged for at one-half of the full rate, as specified in §
112.03.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Corresponding provisions of state store licensing law as of January 1, 1970,
see W. Va. Code
    § 11-13A-5
§ 112.05 EXPIRATION, RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be so issued as to expire on June 30 of each year. On or
before July 1 of each year, every person having a license shall apply to the
Town Recorder for a renewal for the license year next ensuing, unless such
person has ceased to operate such store or does not propose to continue
operation of the store during the year next ensuing. Each application for a
renewal shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $0.50 for each license
requested and by the license tax as prescribed in §
112.03.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)
Statutory reference:
   Corresponding provision of state law of January 1, 1970, see W. Va. Code §
11-13A-10
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, HAWKERS, ITINERANT VENDERS
Section
   
113.01   Business license
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Exemptions
   
113.04   Annual license fee
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all peddlers, hawkers, and itinerant vendors shall obtain a
business license before selling any items in the town limits, and pay such
business and occupation tax as assessed by the town.
   (B)   Every peddler, hawker, and itinerant vendor shall pay town business
and occupation tax as the same is set forth in the town’s ordinance therefor or
as said ordinance is amended to establish said taxation.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. All persons who engage or conduct within the town, either
in one locality, or in traveling from place to place, a temporary or transient
business of selling goods, wares, and merchandise; and who, for the purpose of
carrying on such business, use, lease, or occupy either in whole or in part, a
room, building, or other structure, or who use, lease, or occupancy for such
purposes a room in any hotel or lodging house for the exhibition and sale of
such goods, wares, and merchandise; and the person so engaged shall not be
relieved from the provisions of this section by reason of association
temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer, or by
conducting such temporary or transient business in connection with or as part
of the business of, or in the name of, any local dealer, trader, merchant, or
auctioneer.
   PEDDLER or HAWKER. Any person who carries goods, wares, or merchandise from
place to place, either in person or by agent or employee, and sells, for
delivery at the same time, any such goods, wares, or merchandise to any
purchaser, at wholesale or retail.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 113.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter, as it relates to peddlers and hawkers,
shall not apply to any person who sells any goods, wares, or merchandise to be
delivered in the future, or to any of the following who offer immediate
delivery of such goods, wares, or merchandise being sold:
      (1)   Any person engaged within the town in the business of agriculture,
horticulture, or grazing, who sells individually or for a group, one or more
products derived from his, her, or their business of agriculture, horticulture,
and grazing;
      (2)   Any person engaged in the maintenance or operation of a retail
merchandise store to exchange goods, wares, or merchandise from the store for
agricultural, horticultural, or grazing products or to resell any such products
received in due course of such business; nor to any other retail business
concern, established and operated continuously for one year or more within the
town in the sale of any products over regular routes;
      (3)   Any wholesaler or jobber selling soft drinks or non-intoxicating
beer who is duly licensed to do so in the town;
      (4)   Any person who sells petroleum products, ice, wood, meats, milk,
ice cream, bread, cakes, pies, and other bakery products, butter and eggs,
manufactured, grown, or produced by any such person and not purchased by him or
her for resale;
      (5)   Any sales by societies, groups, or organizations acting for
charitable, religious, benevolent, and educational purposes, as well as any
other entities, groups, organizations, and persons as designated from time to
time at a regularly scheduled Council meeting to not be subject to this
chapter;
      (6)   Any agent or salesperson selling manufactured products, except
green groceries and canned or bottled fruit products, produced by his or her
employer, and who sells the same to retail dealers for the purpose of resale;
and
      (7)   Any firm, corporation, or individual having a stock of goods or
merchandise, or manufacturing or processing plant or plants kept or operating
at a fixed situs in the state and declared for taxation in the county where
located, and using a vehicle or vehicles over a fixed route or routes, for the
purpose of selling or distributing, at wholesale, their, his, her, or its
merchandise, stock of goods, or plant products.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter, as it relates to itinerant vendors,
shall not apply to sales made to persons by commercial travelers or selling
agents in the usual course of business; nor to bona fide sales of goods, wares,
or merchandise by sample for future delivery; nor to persons selling meat or
products of a farm, garden, or dairy; nor to any sales of goods, wares, or
merchandise on the grounds of any agricultural association during the
continuance of any fair held by such association; nor to any sales by
societies, groups, or organizations acting for charitable, religious,
benevolent, or educational purposes, as well as any other entities, groups,
organizations, and persons as designated from time to time at a regularly
scheduled Council meeting to not be subject to this chapter; nor to judicial
sales directed by law or under the orders of any court; nor to the sales of the
common necessities of life in any public market place.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 113.04 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee to act as a hawker or peddler, if the person
licensed travels without a motor vehicle, shall be $25.50; if such person
travels with a motor vehicle of not more than one-half ton capacity, $25.50; if
such person travels with a motor vehicle of more than one-half ton capacity,
but not exceeding one ton capacity, $50; if such person travels with a motor
vehicle of more than one ton capacity, but not more than two tons’ capacity,
$100; and if such person travels with a motor vehicle of more than two tons’
capacity, $150 plus $100 for each additional ton or fraction thereof over two
tons’ capacity; and the person licensed shall pay at the same rate for each and
every motor vehicle so used. Such person shall carry his or her license in some
conspicuous place in his or her vehicle or about his or her pack and, in
addition thereto, he or she shall cause to be painted or stenciled in a
conspicuous place on the left-hand side of the vehicle the number of such
license and the words “Gilbert Hawker and Peddler,” and the license year for
which such license is issued, which information shall be in black letters on a
white background, and the whole thereof shall be at least eight by 20 inches in
size. The license shall not be assignable to any other person.
   (B)   The annual license fee to carry on the business of itinerant vendors
shall be $25.50 and no such license shall be issued or such license tax
assessed for any period not less than one year.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Every peddler, hawker, and itinerant vendor who sells or exhibits for sale,
at public or sale, any goods, wares, or merchandise without first obtaining a
license as required by this chapter, or who makes any false statement in
connection with obtaining said license, or who fails to comply with the
requirements of any of the sections of this chapter, and every person,
principal, or agent who, by circular, handbill, newspaper, or any other manner
advertises such sale, as herein described, before proper licenses are issued to
said peddler, hawker, or itinerant vendor shall be guilty of a violation of
this chapter and may be fined from $100 up to $500.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Administration and Law Enforcement
   
130.001   Refusal to aid officer
   
130.002   Obstructing or giving false information to an officer; fleeing
   
130.003   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
130.004   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
130.005   Attempts
   
130.006   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
130.007   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
130.008   False report
Animals and Fowl
   
130.020   Cruelty to animals
   
130.021   Cruelty to dogs and cats
   
130.022   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
130.023   Barking or howling dogs
   
130.024   Hunting prohibited
Disorderly Conduct and Peace Disturbance
   
130.035   Disorderly conduct
   
130.036   Loitering on school property
   
130.037   Wearing masks, hoods, or face coverings
   
130.038   Disturbing the peace
   
130.039   Criminal loitering by persons on supervised release
Gambling
   
130.050   Keeping or exhibiting gambling apparatus
   
130.051   Permitting gambling apparatus on premises
   
130.052   Acting as lookout or guard for keeper of gambling apparatus
   
130.053   Playing on gambling apparatus; hotels, public places
   
130.054   Making wager for value or furnishing money to another for wager
   
130.055   Permitting gambling at public places
   
130.056   Cheating or fraudulent actions while gambling or making a wager
   
130.057   Pool rooms and pool tickets
   
130.058   Lotteries and raffles
Indecency and Obscenity
   
130.070   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging in prostitution,
lewdness, or assignation
   
130.071   Detention of person in place of prostitution
   
130.072   Pandering
   
130.073   Pimping
   
130.074   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
130.075   Indecent exposure
   
130.076   Invasion of privacy
   
130.077   Sale or display of obscene matter
Liquor Control
   
130.090   Definitions
   
130.091   Subchapter not applicable to certain uses by physicians, druggists,
and others
   
130.092   Prohibited acts generally
   
130.093   Unlawful sale or possession by alcoholic liquor licensee
   
130.094   Unlawful purchase of alcoholic liquors from state agency
   
130.095   Intoxicated or drinking in public places; illegal possession
   
130.096   Act prohibited by non-intoxicating beer licensee
   
130.097   Unlawful purchase of non-intoxicating beer
   
130.098   Acts prohibited by private club licensee
   
130.099   Unlawful purchase from private club
   
130.100   Acts prohibited by wine dealers
   
130.101   Unlawful purchase of wine
   
130.102   Unlawful purchase from retail liquor licensee
   
130.103   Hard cider
   
130.104   Off-premises sales not required to be bagged
Minors
   
130.115   Contributing to delinquency of a child
   
130.116   Cruelty to children
   
130.117   Parental liability for acts of children
   
130.118   Abandoned airtight containers
   
130.119   Tobacco usage restrictions
   
130.120   Smoking prohibited in motor vehicle while minor present
Offenses Relating to Persons
   
130.135   Assault and battery
   
130.136   Assault and battery on school employees
   
130.137   Assault and battery on governmental representatives, health care
providers, utility workers, law enforcement officers, emergency medical service
personnel
   
130.138   Controlled substances
   
130.139   Breathing, inhaling, drinking certain intoxicating compounds
Offenses Relating to Property
   
130.150   Shoplifting
   
130.151   Trespass
   
130.152   Petit larceny
   
130.153   Dealing with stolen goods
   
130.154   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
130.155   Tampering with and theft of utilities; CATV
   
130.156   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, and the like
   
130.157   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
   
130.158   Unauthorized use of dumpsters
   
130.159   Fraudulently obtaining food or lodging
Railroads
   
130.170   Obstructing railroad crossings
   
130.171   Trespassing
Weapons and Explosives
   
130.185   Definitions
   
130.186   Carrying a deadly weapon without provisional license or other
authorization by persons under 21 years of age
   
130.187   Exceptions
   
130.188   Persons prohibited from possession of firearms
   
130.189   Possession of deadly weapons by minors prohibited
   
130.190   Possession of machine guns
   
130.191   Deadly weapons for sale
   
130.192   Brandishing deadly weapons
   
130.193   Possessing deadly weapons on premises of educational facilities
   
130.194   Fireworks sale, possession, and discharge
   
130.195   Discharging firearms
   
130.196   Throwing or shooting missiles
 
   
130.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with lawful order of police officer, see §
70.17
   Stopping at grade crossing, see §§
72.135 through
72.143
Statutory reference:
   Authority to eliminate grade crossings, see W. Va. Code § 17-10-7
   Authority to maintain order, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(19), (44)
   Authority to prevent ill-treatment of animals, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(27)
   Authority to prohibit carrying weapons, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(16)
   Authority to regulate advertising, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(31)
   Authority to regulate liquor sales, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(20)
   Authority to regulate the keeping of animals, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(26)
   Bribery and corrupt practices generally, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-5A
   Contributing to delinquency of minor, see W. Va. Code §§ 49-7-7 et seq.
   Crimes against public justice, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-5
   Crimes against public policy, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-10
   Crimes against the peace, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-6
   Dangerous weapons, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-7
   Delinquent child defined, see W. Va. Code § 49-1-4
   Diseases among domestic animals, see W. Va. Code Art. 19-9
   Disposing of dead animals, see W. Va. Code § 16-9-3
   Dogs generally, see W. Va. Code Art. 19-20
   Domestic animal tax, see W. Va. Code § 8-13-10
   Gambling at fairs prohibited, see W. Va. Code § 19-7-8
   Gaming contracts, see W. Va. Code Art. 55-9
   Grant of right-of-way, see W. Va. Code § 31-2-13
   Hunting, see W. Va. Code Art. 20-2
   Jurisdiction of municipal court, see W. Va. Code § 49-5-1(b)
   Limitations on power to restrict ownership, see W. Va. Code § 8-2-5a
   Local option, see W. Va. Code Art. 60-5
   Non-intoxicating beer, see W. Va. Code Art. 11-16
   Pari-mutuel system of wagering at race track permitted, see W. Va. Code §
19-23-9
   Penalty not to exceed that provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 61, see W. Va. Code §
8-12-5(57)
   Search warrants, see W. Va. Code § 60-6-18
   Specific types of bribery, see W. Va. Code §§ 3-1-1 et seq., 15-2-17 et
seq., 18-2A-9, 61-10-15, and 61-10-2
   State law provisions, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-2, 61-3
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see W. Va. Code Ch. 60A
   Vaccination of dogs, see W. Va. Code Art. 19-20A
ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 130.001 REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse or neglect to assist him or her in the execution of his or her office in
a criminal case, in the preservation of the peace, or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-14) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO AN OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   A person who by threats, menaces, acts, or otherwise forcibly or
illegally hinders or obstructs, or attempts to hinder or obstruct, a law
enforcement officer, probation officer, parole officer, courthouse security
officer, correctional officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time deputy or
assistant Fire Marshal acting in his or her official capacity, shall be
penalized as set forth in §
130.999(A)(3)(a).
   (B)   (1)   A person who, with intent to impede or obstruct a law
enforcement officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time deputy or assistant
Fire Marshal, in the conduct of an investigation of a misdemeanor or felony
offense knowingly and willfully makes a materially false statement is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $200, or confined in jail for five days, or both fined and
confined.
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to statements made by a
spouse, parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, half-sibling, child,
stepchild, or grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the person
under investigation.
      (3)   Statements made by the person under investigation may not be used
as the basis for prosecution under this division (B).
      (4)   For purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER does not
include a watchman, a member of the State Police, or college security personnel
who is not a certified law enforcement officer.
      (5)   A criminal charge under this section relating to the investigation
of a misdemeanor offense may not be used to seek or support a secured bond or
pre-trial incarceration.
   (C)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from a law enforcement officer, probation
officer, parole officer, courthouse security officer, correctional officer, the
State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy, or Assistant Fire Marshal acting in
his or her official capacity who is attempting to make a lawful arrest of or to
lawfully detain the person, and who knows or reasonably believes that the
officer is attempting to arrest or lawfully detain him or her, shall be
penalized as set forth in §
130.999(A)(3)(c).
   (D)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from
a law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting in his
or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible
signal directing the person to stop is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
shall be confined in jail not more than one year.
   (E)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from
a law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting in his
or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible
signal directing the person to stop, and who causes damage to the real or
personal property of a person during or resulting from his or her flight is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $1,000 nor more than $3,000, and shall be confined in jail for not less
than six months nor more than one year.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, the term VEHICLE includes any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle, or snowmobile, as those
terms are defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-1, whether or not it is being operated
on a public highway at the time and whether or not it is licensed by the state.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, the terms FLEE, FLEEING, and FLIGHT do
not include a person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing
the pursuing law enforcement officer to maintain appropriate surveillance, for
the purpose of complying with the officer’s direction to stop.
   (H)   (1)   No person, with the intent to purposefully deprive another
person of emergency services, may interfere with or prevent another person from
making an emergency communication, which a reasonable person would consider
necessary under the circumstances, to law enforcement, fire, or emergency
medical services personnel.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (H), the term INTERFERE WITH OR
PREVENT includes, but is not limited to, seizing, concealing, obstructing
access to, or disabling or disconnecting a telephone, telephone line, or
equipment or other communication device.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (H), the term EMERGENCY
COMMUNICATION means communication to transmit warnings or other information
pertaining to a crime, fire, accident, power outage, disaster, or risk of
injury or damage to a person or property.
      (4)   A person who violates this division (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for a period of not
less than one day nor more than one year, or shall be fined not less than $250
nor more than $2,000, or both fined and confined.
      (5)   A person who is convicted of a second offense under this division
(H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined
in jail for not less than three months nor more than one year, or fined not
less than $500 nor more than $3,000, or both fined and confined.
      (6)   A person who is convicted of a third or subsequent offense under
this division (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in jail not less than six months nor more than one year, or
fined not less than $500 nor more than $4,000, or both fined and confined.
      (7)   In determining the number of prior convictions for purposes of
imposing punishment under this division (H), the court shall disregard all such
prior convictions occurring more than ten years prior to the offense in
question.
   (I)   A person is guilty of filing a false complaint against a law
enforcement officer when, knowing the information reported is false or
baseless, he or she:
      (1)   Initiates a false complaint of improper action of a law enforcement
officer relating to an incident or other circumstance;
      (2)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with conduct of law
enforcement officers which did not occur, does not in fact exist; or
      (3)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed
any false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under, or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane, or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being
made or to be made to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive
device.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of division (A) above for a second offense or
whose violation of division (A) above results in another suffering serious
bodily injury shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.004 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be
a law enforcement officer or law enforcement official, or be under the order or
direction of any such person.
         (b)   No person not a law enforcement officer or law enforcement
official shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the badge or
other insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to deceive
another person.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the terms LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-
29-1, except that such terms shall not include members of the Department of
Homeland Security and shall not include individuals hired by non-public
entities for the provision of security services.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any
of the duties, functions, or powers of a municipal officer.
      (2)   No person not a member of the Fire Department, for the purpose of
such false representation, shall wear a uniform or part thereof similar to the
uniform worn by a member of the Fire Department.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.999 if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W. Va. Code § 61-11-8)
§ 130.006 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   (a)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person,
committed in a police officer’s presence.
         (b)   Provided, that the officer may arrest the person if he or she
has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause serious
harm to himself or herself, or others.
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to §
130.150.
   (B)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (C)   (1)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or
if there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue.
      (2)   When a physical arrest is made and a citation is issued in relation
to the same offense, the officer shall mark on the citation, in the place
specified for court appearance date, the word “arrested” in lieu of the date of
court appearance.
(W. Va. Code § 62-1-5(a))
§ 130.007 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when
knowing the information reported, conveyed, or circulated is false or baseless,
he or she:
      (1)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or
other emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result, or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles, or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
      (2)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies
involving danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or
other emergency in which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will
result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue
vehicles, or other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur,
does not in fact exist;
      (3)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an
allegedly impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact
about to occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident
or to the alleged implication of some person therein; or
      (4)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm
system, or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue
vehicles, or other emergency vehicles.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
emergency drill.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-20) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.008 FALSE REPORT.
   No person shall make or give a false report or false information to any
police or fire officer of the town.
Penalty, see §
130.999
ANIMALS AND FOWL
§ 130.020 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly:
      (1)   Mistreat an animal in a cruel manner;
      (2)   Abandon an animal;
      (3)   Withhold:
         (a)   Proper sustenance, including food or water;
         (b)   Shelter that protects from the elements of weather; or
         (c)   Medical treatment necessary to sustain normal health and
fitness, or to end the suffering of any animal.
      (4)   Abandon an animal to die;
      (5)   Leave an animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle when
physical injury to or death of the animal is likely to result;
      (6)   Ride an animal when it is physically unfit;
      (7)   Bait or harass an animal for the purpose of making it perform for a
person’s amusement;
      (8)   Cruelly chain or tether an animal; or
      (9)   Use, train, or possess a domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
   (B)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same
meaning ascribed to it by W. Va. Code § 60A-1-101(d).
   (D)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
   (E)   The provisions of this section do not apply to lawful acts of hunting,
fishing, trapping, or animal training or farm livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and maintained
according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane use of
animals or activities regulated under and in conformity with the provisions of
7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq. and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as both
such statutes and regulations are in effect on the effective date of this
section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.021 CRUELTY TO DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly or needlessly beat, torture, torment,
mutilate, kill, or willfully deprive necessary sustenance to any dog or cat,
irrespective of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that of
another person.
   (B)   No person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient
quantity of food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog
or cat, or be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one dog or cat
to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat,
or receive money for the admission of any person or use, train, or possess a
dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other dog
or cat.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.022 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality so as
to create noxious or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort, or safety of the public.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.023 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the municipality which, by
frequent and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to
disturb the peace, quiet, and good order of the municipality. Any person who
shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or fed within any dwelling,
building, yard, or enclosure, which he or she occupies or owns, shall be
considered as harboring such dog.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hunt, kill, or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use
of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle, or any other means within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
Penalty, see §
130.999
DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
§ 130.035 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall, in a public place, any state or municipal office or
office building, or any other property owned, leased, occupied, or controlled
by the state or municipality, a mobile home park, a public parking area, a
common area of an apartment building or dormitory, or a common area of a
privately owned commercial shopping center, mall, or other group of commercial
retail establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent, profane,
indecent, or boisterous conduct or language or by the making of unreasonably
loud noise that is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another person, and
who persists in such conduct after being requested to desist by a law
enforcement officer acting in his or her lawful capacity; provided, that
nothing in this division (A) should be construed as a deterrence to the lawful
and orderly public right to demonstrate in support or protest of public policy
issues.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
         (a)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A privately-owned residential housing area or
subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes and
wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for purposes
of ingress and egress, parking, recreation, and other like residential
purposes.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An area, whether publicly or privately owned or
maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-1b)
§ 130.036 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person not a student in regular attendance shall loiter in or about any
school, school building, or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-14a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 WEARING MASKS, HOODS, OR FACE COVERINGS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood, or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway, or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby, or foyer open to, used by, or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained, or operated by the state or municipality;
      (4)   Ask, request, or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling, or place of business of any other person within this
municipality; or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained from
the owner or occupant thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood, or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood, or device in theatrical productions, including
use in Mardi Gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device prescribed for civil defense
drills, exercises, or emergencies; or
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-22) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.038 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   On any street, highway, public building, in or on a public or
private conveyance, or public place, engage in conduct having a direct tendency
to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom, individually, such
conduct is directed;
      (2)   Willfully, or being intoxicated, whether willfully or not, disrupt
any meeting of the governing body of any political subdivision of this state or
a division or agency thereof, or of any school, literary society, or place of
religious worship, or any other meeting open to the public, if such disruption
prevents or interferes with the orderly conduct of such meeting or has a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom,
individually, such disruption is directed;
      (3)   Engage in fighting, or threaten to harm persons or property
unlawfully;
      (4)   Make offensively coarse utterance, gesture, or display, or
communicate unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person which, by
its very utterance or usage, inflicts injury or tends to incite an immediate
breach of the peace;
      (5)   Insult, taunt, or challenge another under circumstances in which
such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (6)   Hinder or prevent the movement of persons or vehicles on a public
street, road, or highway right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or
private property so as to interfere with the rights of others, by any act which
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose;
      (7)   Create a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to
persons or property; and/or
      (8)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon the property of any
other person, except this section shall not apply to the use of restrooms and/
or bathrooms.
   (B)   Nothing described herein shall be interpreted or construed to prevent
any constitutionally protected activity including, but not necessarily limited
to, exercise of one’s constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of speech
or assembly. No person may be convicted under this section when his or her sole
intent for engaging in the activities for which he or she was arrested was to
exercise one or more of the rights guaranteed to him or her under the
Constitution of the United States or the State Constitution, or to exercise any
other rights guaranteed to that person by law.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.039 CRIMINAL LOITERING BY PERSONS ON SUPERVISED RELEASE.
   (A)   No person serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-12-26 shall loiter within 1,000
feet of the property line of the residence or workplace of a victim of a
sexually violent offense for which the person was convicted.
   (B)   No person serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-12-26 for an offense where the
victim was a minor shall loiter within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
facility or business the principal purpose of which is the education,
entertainment, or care of minor children, playground, athletic facility, or
school bus stop.
   (C)   A person does not violate the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) above
unless he or she has previously been asked to leave the proscribed location by
an authorized person and thereafter refuses to leave or leaves and thereafter
returns to the proscribed location.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED PERSON.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer acting in his or her official
capacity;
         (b)   A security officer employed by a business or facility to protect
persons or property acting in his or her employment capacity;
         (c)   An owner, manager, or employee of a facility or business having
as a principal purpose the caring for, education, or entertainment of minors;
         (d)   A victim or parent, guardian, or lawful temporary or permanent
custodian thereof; and/or
         (e)   An employee of a County Board of Education acting in his or her
employment capacity.
      FACILITY OR BUSINESS, THE PRINCIPAL PURPOSE OF WHICH IS THE EDUCATION,
ENTERTAINMENT, OR CARE OF MINOR CHILDREN.
         (a)   A pre-school, primary, intermediate, middle or high school,
either public or private;
         (b)   A childcare facility;
         (c)   A park;
         (d)   An athletic facility used by minors; and/or
         (e)   A school bus stop.
      LOITERING. To enter or remain on property while having no legitimate
purpose or, if a legitimate purpose exists, remaining on that property beyond
the time necessary to fulfill that purpose.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or limit a
person’s presence within 1,000 feet of a location or facility referenced in
this section if the person is there present for the purposes of supervision,
counseling, or other activity in which the person is directed to participate as
a condition of supervision or where the person has the express permission of
his or her supervising officer to be present.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-29) Penalty, see §
130.999
GAMBLING
§ 130.050 KEEPING OR EXHIBITING GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an
A.B.C. or E.O. table, faro bank, keno table, or any slot machine, multiple coin
console machine, multiple coin console slot machine or device in the nature of
a slot machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind, under any
denomination or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank, machine, or
device is played with cards, dice, or otherwise, or be a partner, or concerned
in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank, machine, or gaming
device of any character.
   (B)   (1)   Any such table, faro bank, machine, or gaming device, and all
money staked or exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table or upon such
gaming device, may be seized by order of the Police Court and the money so
seized shall be forfeited to the municipality and paid into the Municipal
Treasury and the table, faro bank, machine, or gaming device shall be
completely destroyed.
      (2)   However, the provisions of this section shall not extend to coin-
operated non-payout machines with free play features or to automatic weighing,
measuring, musical, and vending machines which are so constructed as to give a
certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin deposited
therein and in which there is no element of chance.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.051 PERMITTING GAMBLING APPARATUS ON PREMISES.
   No person shall knowingly permit a gaming table, bank, or device, as
mentioned in §
130.050, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his or her occupation.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.052 ACTING AS LOOKOUT OR GUARD FOR KEEPER OF GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   (A)   No person shall act as doorkeeper, guard, or watch, or employ another
person to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any gaming table, bank, or
device as mentioned in §
130.050.
   (B)   No person shall resist, nor by any means or device, prevent, hinder,
or delay the lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure of the
table, bank, or device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, nor unlawfully
take the same from the person seizing it.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.053 PLAYING ON GAMBLING APPARATUS; HOTELS, PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Bet or play at any gaming table, bank, or device, as mentioned in §
130.050; or
   (B)   At any hotel or tavern, other public place, or place of public resort,
play at any game except bowling, chess, or backgammon, draughts, or a licensed
game, or bet on the side of those who play at any game, whether or not the game
is permitted or licensed.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.054 MAKING WAGER FOR VALUE OR FURNISHING MONEY TO ANOTHER FOR WAGER.
   No person shall, at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or other
thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or other
thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.055 PERMITTING GAMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES.
   No keeper of a hotel, tavern, or other public place shall permit unlawful
gaming at his or her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor, or other place
appurtenant thereto.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   General business licensing, see
Ch. 110
§ 130.056 CHEATING OR FRAUDULENT ACTIONS WHILE GAMBLING OR MAKING A WAGER.
   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in any
stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any game
or making a wager, shall cheat, or by fraudulent means win or acquire for
himself or herself, or another, money or any other valuable thing.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.057 POOL ROOMS AND POOL TICKETS.
   (A)   POOLROOM, wherever used in this section, means any room where any pool
ticket, chance voucher or certificate is sold entitling or purporting to
entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or other
thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prizefight, game
of chance, game of skill or science, or other sport or contest.
   (B)   No person shall set up or promote, or be connected with or interested
in the management or operation of any poolroom. The buying, selling, or
transferring of tickets or chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.058 LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote,
or be concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other
thing of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her
control; knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such
house or to be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of
chance; knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or
share of a ticket in a lottery; or any writing, certificate, bill, token, or
other device purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person or to
entitle him or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn
in a lottery.
   (B)   No person shall for himself or herself, or any other person, buy,
sell, transfer, or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale or
with intent to exchange, negotiate, or transfer, or aid in selling, exchanging,
negotiating, or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a ticket, in a
lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token, or device.
   (C)   However, this section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain
type or form of lottery or raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy”
or “numbers.”
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
§ 130.070 OPERATING A PLACE FOR OR PERMITTING OR ENGAGING IN PROSTITUTION,
LEWDNESS, OR ASSIGNATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain, or operate any house,
place, building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or part thereof, or
vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution,
lewdness, or assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other
structure, or part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to
be used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, or let,
sublet, or rent any such place, premises, or conveyance to another with
knowledge or good reason to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to
use such place, premises, or conveyance for prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation; or offer, or offer to secure, another for the purpose of
prostitution or for any other lewd or indecent act; or receive or offer, or
agree to receive, any person into any house, place, building, hotel, tourist
camp, or other structure, or vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the
purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, or permit any person to
remain there for such purpose; or for another or others, direct, take, or
transport, or offer or agree to take or transport, or aid or assist in
transporting any person to any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp,
other structure, vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance, or to any other person
with knowledge or having reasonable cause to believe that the purpose of such
directing, taking, or transporting is prostitution, lewdness, or assignation;
or aid, abet, or participate in the doing of any acts herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) shall, for a first offense, be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation, or solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or reside in, enter, or remain in any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, or enter or
remain in any vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or aid, abet, or participate in the
doing of any of the acts herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) shall, for a first or second
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator, or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
   (C)   (1)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting,
subletting, or renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or
other structure which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation, shall be void from and after the date any person who is a party to
such an agreement shall be convicted of an offense hereunder.
      (2)   TOURIST CAMP includes any temporary or permanent buildings, tents,
cabins, or structures, or trailers or other vehicles which are maintained,
offered, or used for dwelling or sleeping quarters for pay.
   (D)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.071 DETENTION OF PERSON IN PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall by any means keep, hold, detain, or restrain any
person in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is
practiced or allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain, or
restrain or attempt to keep, hold, detain, or restrain, in any house of
prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any
person by any means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or
indirectly, to pay, liquidate, or cancel any debt, dues, or obligations
incurred or said to have been incurred by such person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained, or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.072 PANDERING.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of
prostitution, or by promises, threats, violence, or by any device or scheme,
cause, induce, persuade, or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house
of prostitution, or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution
for a person.
         (b)   No person shall, by promises, threats, violence, or any device
or scheme cause, induce, persuade, or encourage an inmate of a house of
prostitution to remain therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice,
or by duress of person or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or
authority, procure any person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to
enter any place in which prostitution is encouraged or allowed within this
municipality, or to come into or leave this municipality for the purpose of
prostitution, or shall procure any person to become an inmate of a house of ill
fame within this municipality or to come into or leave this municipality for
the purpose of prostitution; or shall receive or give, or agree to receive or
give, any money or thing of value for procuring or attempting to procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within this municipality, or
to come into or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of this municipality, and the offense shall, in such case, be
deemed and alleged to have been committed and the offender tried and punished
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.073 PIMPING.
   (A)   (1)   No person knowing another person to be a prostitute shall live
or derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution.
      (2)   A prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
hereunder to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction or
conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person or persons
in the presence of the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the
accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this section,
whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its
dissolution.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.074 OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (A)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (C)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made, or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-16) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.075 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus or
the sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure
by another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under
circumstances in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause
affront or alarm.
   (B)   Provided, that it is not considered indecent exposure for a mother to
breast feed a child in any location, public or private.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.076 INVASION OF PRIVACY.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door, or other aperture of any building, structure, or other enclosure
of any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure, or enclosure be permanently situated
or transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.077 SALE OR DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIVIDUAL. Any human being regardless of age.
      KNOWINGLY. To have knowledge of or to be aware of the content or
character of obscene matter.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing, or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription, or
mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines, or materials.
      OBSCENE. Matter which the average individual applying contemporary
community standards would find:
         (a)   Taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest;
         (b)   Depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; and
         (c)   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value, and which either:
            1.   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, or masochism; or
            2.   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish, or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display sack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar public places so that material can be purchased or viewed by
individuals.
   (B)   Individual relief.
      (1)   The circuit court shall have jurisdiction to issue an injunction to
enforce the purposes of this section upon petition by the attorney for the
municipality or a representative thereof, or any citizen of the municipality
who can show a good faith and valid reason for making such application.
      (2)   No bond shall be required unless for good cause shown.
   (C)   Activities prohibited. No person shall knowingly send or cause to be
sent or cause to be brought into the municipality for sale or public display,
or prepare, sell, or make a public display, or in the municipality offer to
prepare, sell, or make a public display, or have in his or her possession with
the intent to sell or make a public display of any obscene matter to any
individual.
   (D)   Employees not prosecuted. No employee shall be guilty of a violation
of this section when such employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, or usher,
or when such employee prepares, sells, or makes a public display of obscene
matter while acting within the scope of his or her regular employment, unless
such employee has a proprietary interest in such obscene matter or is a
shareholder or officer of a corporation which has a proprietary interest in
such obscene matter.
   (E)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the Constitution or laws of this
state or of these United States.
(W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(b)) Penalty, see §
130.999
LIQUOR CONTROL
§ 130.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whatever its origin, and shall include synthetic
ethyl alcohol but not denatured alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, beer, wine, and spirits, and any liquid
or solid capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include non-
intoxicating beer.
   AN AGENCY. A drugstore, grocery store, or general store designated by the
Commission as a retail distributor of alcoholic liquor for the State Alcohol
Beverage Control Commission.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops, or
any other similar product or substitute, and containing more alcohol than that
of non-intoxicating beer.
   BREWERY. An establishment where beer is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   COMMISSIONER or COMMISSION. The State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner.
   DEPARTMENT. The organization through which the Commission exercises powers
imposed upon it by this subchapter.
   DISTILLERY. An establishment where alcoholic liquor other than wine or beer
is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   INTOXICATED. A person’s faculties are impaired by alcohol or other substance
to the point where physical or mental control or both are markedly diminished.
   MANAGER. An individual who is the applicant’s or licensee’s on-premises
employee, member, partner, shareholder, director, or officer who meets the
licensure requirements of W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-1 et seq. and rules promulgated
thereunder who actively manages, conducts, and carries on the day-to-day
operations of the applicant or licensee with full and apparent authority or
actual authority to act on behalf of the applicant or licensee. Such duties
include, but are not limited to: coordinating staffing; reviewing and approving
payroll; ordering and paying for inventory, such as non-intoxicating beer,
wine, and liquor, as applicable; and managing security staff, security systems,
video, and other security equipment; and any further acts or actions involved
in managing the affairs of the business, on behalf of owners, partners,
members, shareholders, officers, or directors.
   MANUFACTURE. To distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix, concoct,
process, blend, bottle, or fill an original package with any alcoholic liquor.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacture of any alcoholic liquor,
and among others includes a distiller, a rectifier, a wine maker, and a brewer.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5)
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
      (1)   All natural cereal malt beverages or products of the brewing
industry commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale, and all other mixtures
and preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt coolers and
non-intoxicating craft beers with no caffeine infusion or any additives masking
or altering the alcohol effect containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume, but
not more than 11.9% of alcohol by weight, or 15% alcohol by volume, whichever
is greater.
      (2)   The word LIQUOR, as used in W. Va. Code §§ 60-1-1 et seq., does not
include or embrace NON-INTOXICATING BEER nor any of the beverages, products,
mixtures, or preparations included within this definition.
   NON-INTOXICATING CRAFT BEER. Any beverage obtained by the natural
fermentation of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product or substitute
and containing not less than 0.5% by volume and not more than 15% alcohol by
volume or eleven and 11.9% alcohol by weight with no caffeine infusion or any
additives masking or altering the alcohol effect.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-3)
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any closed or sealed container or receptacle used for
holding alcoholic liquor.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
or voluntary association.
   POWDERED ALCOHOL. An alcohol manufactured in a powder or crystalline form
for either direct use or reconstitution as an alcoholic liquor or food. For
purposes of this subchapter, POWDERED ALCOHOL excludes any material intended
for industrial purposes.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   Any place, building, or conveyance to which the public has, or is
permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel dining
rooms, lobbies, and corridors of hotels and any highway, street, lane, park, or
place of public resort or amusement; provided, that the term PUBLIC PLACE shall
not mean or include any of the above-named places or any portion or portions
thereof which qualify and are licensed under the provisions of this subchapter
to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the term PUBLIC PLACE shall not mean or
include any legally demarcated area designated solely for the consumption of
beverages and freshly prepared food that directly connects and adjoins any
portion or portions of a premises that qualifies and is licensed under the
provisions of this subchapter to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption
thereupon; provided, further, that the term PUBLIC PLACE shall not include a
facility constructed primarily for the use of a Division I, II, or III college
or university that is a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association,
or its successor, and used as a football, basketball, baseball, soccer, or
other Division I, II, or III sports stadium which holds a special license to
sell wine pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 60-8-3, in the designated
areas of sale and consumption of wine and other restrictions established by
that section and the terms of the special license issued thereunder.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means, for a
consideration, and shall include all sales made by a principal, proprietor,
agent, or employee.
   SELLING. Includes solicitation or receipt of orders; possession for sale;
and possession with intent to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation and mixed with
potable water and other substances in solution and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, cordials, and gin.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE. A store established and operated by the Commission under
this subchapter for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package for
consumption off the premises.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits, or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
   WINERY. An establishment where wine is manufactured or in any way prepared.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5)
§ 130.091 SUBCHAPTER NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES BY PHYSICIANS, DRUGGISTS,
AND OTHERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not prevent:
   (A)   A physician from prescribing the use of alcoholic liquors when
necessary for a bona fide patient;
   (B)   A druggist from selling, upon a prescription properly issued by a
physician, alcoholic liquors for medicinal purposes;
   (C)   A physician, dentist, or veterinarian, in the legitimate practice of
his or her profession, from using and administering alcoholic liquors;
   (D)   Hospitals, sanitariums, or that division of any institution which is
regularly conducted as a hospital, dispensary, or infirmary from using or
administering alcoholic liquors to bona fide patients. Institutions and the
divisions thereof provided in this section may carry a stock of alcoholic
liquors sufficient for this purpose; and
   (E)   Religious organizations from using wine for sacramental purposes.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-5)
§ 130.092 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Manufacture or sell in this town, without a license, any alcoholic
liquor except as permitted by W. Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (B)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
license, except as permitted by W. Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (C)   Sell or tender without a license any alcoholic liquor other than
provided by W. Va. Code Art. 60-6;
   (D)   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug, methyl
alcohol, crude, unrectified, or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or any other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
   (E)   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in which
alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in this state;
   (F)   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in this town except in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
   (G)   Distribute, deal in, process, or use crowns, stamps, or seals required
under the authority of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, except in accordance with the rules
and regulations prescribed by the State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
   (H)   Manufacture or sell, aid, or abet in the manufacture or sale, possess,
transport or ship, use, or in any other manner provide or furnish powdered
alcohol; and/or
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-7)
   (I)   Manufacture, sell, give, or offer to make a sale or gift of, transport
or otherwise possess any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer except as
permitted by W. Va. Code Ch. 11 and 60.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.093 UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION BY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (A)   No person licensed under W. Va. Code Ch. 60 shall:
      (1)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors of a kind other
than that which the license or W. Va. Code Ch. 60 authorizes him or her to
sell;
      (2)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve beer to which wine, spirits, or
alcohol has been added;
      (3)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve wine to which other alcoholic
spirits have been added, otherwise than as required in the manufacture of the
wine under rules of the Commission;
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-8)
      (4)   (a)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors or non-
intoxicating beer to a person who is:
            1.   Less than 21 years of age;
            2.   An habitual drunkard;
            3.   Intoxicated;
            4.   Addicted to the use of any controlled substance as defined by
W. Va. Code Ch. 60A; and
            5.   Mentally incompetent.
         (b)   It shall be a defense to a violation of division (A)(4)(a)1.
above if the seller shows that the purchaser:
            1.   Produced written evidence which showed his or her age to be at
least the required age for purchase and which bore a physical description of
the person named on the writing which reasonably described the purchaser; or
            2.   Produced evidence of other facts that reasonably indicated at
the time of sale that the purchaser was at least the required age.
(W. Va. Code §§ 60-3-22, 60-6-8)
      (5)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors except as
authorized by his or her license;
      (6)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors other than by the
drink, poured from the alcoholic liquors’ original container; provided, that
under certain requirements exceptions to liquor by the drink are as follows.
         (a)   A private club licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq.,
that is in good standing with the Commissioner and has paid a $1,000 on-
premises only bottle service fee to the Commissioner, may sell or serve liquor
by the bottle to two or more persons for consumption on the licensed premises
only, and any liquor bottle sold by such a private club shall be sold at retail
for personal use, and not for resale, to a person for not less than 300% of the
private club’s cost, and the liquor bottle shall be removed from the licensed
premises by any person or the licensee.
         (b)   A Class A licensee licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq.,
may sell or serve wine by the bottle to two or more persons for consumption on
the licensed premises only, unless such licensee has obtained a license or
privilege authorizing other activity.
      (7)   (a)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve pre-mixed alcoholic liquor
that is not in the original container; provided, that a licensee may sell,
furnish, tender, and serve up to 15 recipes of pre-mixed beverages consisting
of alcoholic liquors and non-alcoholic mixer, in a manner approved by the
Commissioner and in accord with public health and safety standards.
            1.   a.   The licensee shall use approved dispensing and storage
equipment which shall be cleaned at the end of the day.
               b.   Failure to clean the dispensing and storage equipment shall
result in the immediate suspension or revocation of the permit.
            2.   The licensee shall sanitize and clean the pre-mixing beverage
storage equipment after each use or after each batch of the pre-mixed beverage
is made.
            3.   The licensee shall maintain a written record reflecting the
cleaning and sanitizing of the storage and dispensing equipment for inspection
by the Commissioner and health inspectors.
         (b)   A violation or violations of this division (G) may result in the
suspension or revocation of the permit and may result in additional sanctions
under W. Va. Code Ch. 60 or §§ 11-16-1 et seq.
      (8)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve any alcoholic liquor when forbidden
by the provisions of this subchapter;
      (9)   Sell, possess, possess for sale, tender, serve, furnish, or provide
any powdered alcohol; or
      (10)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license alcoholic
liquor other than that which he or she is authorized to sell, furnish, tender,
or serve by such license or by this subchapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.094 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS FROM STATE AGENCY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Being under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency, misrepresent his or
her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which
is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency; and/or
   (B)   Knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish to anyone under the age of 21
years, to whom they are not related by blood or marriage, any alcoholic liquors
from whatever source.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3-22a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.095 INTOXICATED OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   (A)   A person shall not:
      (1)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in a public place;
      (3)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer to
another person in a public place;
      (4)   Operate a business without a license issued under W. Va. Code §§
60-1-1 et seq., which knowingly facilitates the consumption of alcoholic
liquors in a public place by providing for on-site items such as cups, glasses,
ice, and non-alcoholic beverages used to mix with alcoholic liquors,
refrigeration, or on-site storage of alcoholic liquors in a lounge area or
space for persons to gather, perhaps offering musical entertainment, exotic
dancing, or other such nude entertainment, or other similar activity or
entertainment. Such business may be commonly known as a “bring your own
bottle,” “ bring your own booze,” or “BYOB” establishments;
      (5)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of ten gallons, in
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the State Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner, without having first obtained written authority from the
Commissioner therefor; or
      (6)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest without a warrant and take the
following actions against a person who, in his or her presence, violates
division (A)(1) above:
      (1)   If there is some non-intoxicated person who will accept
responsibility for the intoxicated person, the officer may issue the
intoxicated person a citation specifying the date for appearance before a
judicial officer and release him or her to the custody of the individual
accepting responsibility; provided, that the issuance of a citation shall be
used whenever feasible;
      (2)   If it does not impose an undue burden on the officer, he or she
may, after issuance of the citation, transport the individual to the
individual’s present residence or arrange for the transportation;
      (3)   If the individual is incapacitated or the alternatives provided in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above are not possible, the officer shall transport
or arrange for transportation to the appropriate judicial officer as defined by
W. Va. Code § 27-11-17; or
      (4)   (a)   If the individual is incapacitated and, in the law
enforcement officer’s judgment, is in need of acute medical attention, that
officer shall arrange for transportation by ambulance or otherwise to a
hospital emergency room. The officer shall accompany the individual until he or
she is discharged from the emergency room or admitted to the hospital.
         (b)   If the individual is released from the emergency room, the
officer may proceed as described in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3) above.
If the individual is admitted to the hospital, the officer shall issue a
citation to the individual specifying a date for appearance before a judicial
officer.
   (C)   Upon presentment before the proper judicial officer, the law
enforcement officer serves as the chief complaining witness. The judicial
officer shall determine if there is probative evidence that the individual may
be guilty of the charge of public intoxication. If such evidence is not
presented, the charge shall be dismissed and the individual released. If
sufficient evidence is presented, the judicial officer shall issue a warrant
and establish bail or issue a summons to the individual. Once a warrant or
summons has been issued, the following actions may be taken:
      (1)   If the individual is no longer incapacitated, he or she may be
released;
      (2)   If the individual is still incapacitated but a non-intoxicated
person is available to accept responsibility for him or her, he or she may be
released to the responsible person; or
      (3)   If the individual is still incapacitated and no responsible person
is available, the judicial officer shall proceed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code Art. 27-5 or 6A.
   (D)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest and hold in custody,
without a warrant, until complaint may be made before a judicial officer and a
warrant or summons issued, any person who in the presence of the law
enforcement officer violates any one or more of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above.
      (2)   Provided, that the law enforcement officer may use reasonable force
to prevent harm to himself or herself, the individual arrested or others in
carrying out the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.096 ACT PROHIBITED BY NON-INTOXICATING BEER LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any licensee, or his, her, its, or their servants, agents, or
employees, to sell, give, or dispense, or any individual to drink or consume,
in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected, non-
intoxicating beer on weekdays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
except in private clubs licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 60-7,
where the hours shall conform with the hours of sale of alcoholic liquors;
      (2)   For any licensee, or his, her, its, or their servants, agents, or
employees to sell, furnish, or give any non-intoxicating beer, as defined in
this subchapter, to any person visibly or noticeably intoxicated or to any
person known to be insane or known to be a habitual drunkard;
      (3)   For any licensee, or his, her, its, or their servants, agents, or
employees to sell, furnish, or give any non-intoxicating beer as defined in
this subchapter to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   For any distributor to sell or offer to sell, or any retailer to
purchase or receive, any non-intoxicating beer as defined in this subchapter,
except for cash and a right of action shall not exist to collect any claims for
credit extended contrary to the provisions of this division (A). Nothing
contained in this section prohibits a licensee from crediting to a purchasing
person the actual price charged for packages or containers returned by the
original purchasing person as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any
purchasing person the amount paid or deposited for the containers when title is
retained by the vendor; provided, that a distributor may accept an electronic
transfer of funds if the transfer of funds is initiated by an irrevocable
payment order on the invoiced amount for the non-intoxicating beer. The cost of
the electronic fund transfer shall be borne by the retailer and the distributor
shall initiate the transfer no later than noon of one business day after the
delivery;
      (5)   (a)   For any brewer or distributor to give, furnish, rent, or sell
any equipment, fixtures, signs, supplies, or services directly or indirectly or
through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products
of the brewing industry at retail or to offer any prize, premium, gift, or
other similar inducement, except advertising matter, including indoor
electronic or mechanical signs, of nominal value up to $25 per stock keeping
unit, to either trade or consumer buyers; provided, that a distributor may
offer, for sale or rent, tanks of carbonic gas; provided, however, that, in the
interest of public health and safety, a distributor may, independently or
through a subsidiary or affiliate, furnish, sell, install, or maintain draught
line equipment, supplies, and cleaning services to a licensed retailer so long
as the furnishing or sale of draught line services may be negotiated at no less
than actual cost: provided further, that a distributor may furnish, rent, or
sell equipment, fixtures, signs, services, or supplies directly or indirectly
or through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling
products of the brewing industry at retail under the conditions and within the
limitations as prescribed in this section.
         (b)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits a brewer from
sponsoring any professional or amateur athletic event or from providing prizes
or awards for participants and winners in any events;
      (6)   For any brewer or distributor to sponsor any professional or
amateur athletic event or provide prizes or awards for participants and winners
when a majority of the athletes participating in the event are minors, unless
specifically authorized by the Commissioner;
      (7)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense non-intoxicating beer
through draught lines where the draught lines have not been cleaned at least
every two weeks in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commissioner, and
where written records of all cleanings are not maintained and available for
inspection;
      (8)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises any lewd,
immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice;
      (9)   For any licensee except the holder of a license to operate a
private club issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. or a
holder of a license or a private wine restaurant issued under the provisions of
W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. to possess a federal license, tax receipt, or
other permit entitling, authorizing, or allowing the licensee to sell liquor or
alcoholic drinks other than non-intoxicating beer;
      (10)   (a)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his
or her premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes, or any means which would prevent
plain view of the patrons occupying the premises.
         (b)   The interior of all licensed premises shall be adequately
lighted at all times; provided, that provisions of this division (A)(10) do not
apply to the premises of a Class B retailer, the premises of a private club
licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., or the premises
of a private wine restaurant licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§
60-8-1 et seq.
      (11)   For any licensee to manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter,
possess, or acquiesce in the sale, possession, or consumption of any alcoholic
liquors on the premises covered by a license or on premises directly or
indirectly used in connection with it; provided, that the prohibition contained
in this division (A)(11) with respect to the selling or possessing or to the
acquiescence in the sale, possession, or consumption of alcoholic liquors is
not applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., nor shall
the prohibition be applicable to a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. insofar as the private wine
restaurant is authorized to serve wine;
      (12)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense non-intoxicating beer,
as defined in this subchapter, purchased or acquired from any source other than
a distributor, brewer, or manufacturer licensed under the laws of this state;
      (13)   (a)   For any licensee to permit loud, boisterous, or disorderly
conduct of any kind upon his or her premises or to permit the use of loud
musical instruments if either or any of the same may disturb the peace and
quietude of the community where the business is located.
         (b)   Provided, that a licensee may have speaker systems for outside
broadcasting as long as the noise levels do not create a public nuisance or
violate local noise ordinances.
      (14)   For any person whose license has been revoked, as provided in this
subchapter, to obtain employment with any retailer within the period of one
year from the date of the revocation, or for any retailer to knowingly employ
that person within the specified time;
      (15)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport, or
distribute non-intoxicating beer except in the original container;
      (16)   For any licensee to knowingly permit any act to be done upon the
licensed premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws
of this state or municipality;
      (17)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of non-
intoxicating beer upon his or her licensed premises;
      (18)   (a)   For any Class A licensee, or his, her, its, or their
servants, agents, or employees, or for any licensee by or through any servants,
agents, or employees, to allow, suffer, or permit any person less than 18 years
of age to loiter in or upon any licensed premises.
         (b)   Except, however, that the provisions of this division (A)(18) do
not apply where a person under the age of 18 years is in or upon the premises
in the immediate company of a parent or legal guardian, or where and while a
person under the age of 18 years is in or upon the premises for the purpose of
and actually making a lawful purchase of any items or commodities sold, or for
the purchase of and actually receiving any lawful service rendered in the
licensed premises, including the consumption of any item of food, drink, or
soft drink lawfully prepared and served or sold for consumption on the
premises;
      (19)   (a)   For any distributor to sell, offer for sale, distribute, or
deliver any non-intoxicating beer outside the territory assigned to any
distributor by the brewer or manufacturer of non-intoxicating beer or to sell,
offer for sale, distribute, or deliver non-intoxicating beer to any retailer
whose principal place of business or licensed premises is within the assigned
territory of another distributor of the non-intoxicating beer.
         (b)   Provided, that nothing in this section is considered to prohibit
sales of convenience between distributors licensed in this state where one
distributor sells, transfers, or delivers to another distributor a particular
brand or brands for sale at wholesale.
      (20)   For any licensee or any agent, servant, or employee of any
licensee to knowingly violate any rule lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner
in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 29A.
   (B)   (1)   A Class B licensee that:
         (a)   Has installed a transaction scan device on its licensed
premises; and
         (b)   Can demonstrate that it requires each employee, servant, or
agent to verify the age of any individual to whom non-intoxicating beer or non-
intoxicating craft beer is sold, furnished, or given away by the use of the
transaction device is not subject to:
            1.   Any criminal penalties whatsoever, including those set forth
in §
130.999(I) above;
            2.   Any administrative penalties from the Commissioner; or
            3.   a.   Any civil liability whatsoever for the improper sale,
furnishing, or giving away of non-intoxicating beer or non-intoxicating craft
beer to an individual who is less than 21 years of age by one of his or her
employees, servants, or agents.
               b.   Any agent, servant, or employee who has improperly sold,
furnished, or given away non-intoxicating beer to an individual less than 21
years of age is subject to the criminal penalties of division (B) above. Any
agent, servant, or employee who has improperly sold, furnish, or given away
non-intoxicating beer to an individual less than 21 years of age is subject to
termination from employment, and the employer shall have no civil liability for
the termination.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a Class B licensee can demonstrate
that it requires each employee, servant, or agent to verify the age of any
individual to whom non-intoxicating beer is sold by providing evidence that:
         (a)   It has developed a written policy which requires each employee,
servant, or agent to verify the age of each individual to whom non-intoxicating
beer will be sold, furnished, or given away;
         (b)   It has communicated this policy to each employee, servant, or
agent; and
         (c)   It monitors the actions of its employees, servants, or agents
regarding the sale, furnishing, or giving away of non-intoxicating beer and
that it has taken corrective action for any discovered non-compliance with this
policy.
      (3)   TRANSACTION SCAN means the process by which a person checks, by
means of a transaction scan device, the age and identity of the cardholder, and
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE means any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information enclosed on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver’s license or other governmental identity card.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this section nor any rule of the Commissioner shall
prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from employing any person who
is at least 18 years of age to serve in the licensee’s lawful employ, including
the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating beer as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   (a)   With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods, or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores, may employ persons who
are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age.
         (b)   Provided, that the person’s duties may include the sale of non-
intoxicating beer or alcoholic liquors only when directly supervised by a
person 21 years of age or older; provided, however, that the authorization to
employ persons under the age of 18 years shall be clearly indicated on the
licensee’s license.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-18)
§ 130.097 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   (A)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess, or serve non-intoxicating beer.
      (2)    Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating beer.
Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18 but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores; provided, that such
person shall not sell or deliver non-intoxicating beer.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer when
he or she is acting upon the request of, or under the direction and control of,
any member of a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency or the State
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of purchasing non-
intoxicating beer, shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose
present or offer any written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent, or not
actually his or her own, or shall illegally attempt to purchase non-
intoxicating beer.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish non-
intoxicating beer to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom they are not
related by blood or marriage.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-19) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.098 ACTS PROHIBITED BY PRIVATE CLUB LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent, employee, or member thereof
on such licensee’s premises, to:
      (1)   Sell, offer for sale, tender, or serve any alcoholic liquors other
than by the drink poured from the original package or container, except as
authorized in §
130.093;
      (2)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace, obscene, lewd,
immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice. A private resort
hotel holding a license issued pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. may
sell, tender, or dispense non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors in
or on the premises licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 29-22A-1 et seq. and 29-22C-
1 et seq., or W. Va. Code §§ 29-25-1 et seq., during hours of operation
authorized by W. Va. Code §§ 29-22A-1 et seq. and 29-22C-1 et seq., or 29-25-
1 et seq.;
      (3)   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of, gift to, or the procurement
of any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors for or to, or permit
the consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors on the
licensee’s premises, by any person less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of, gift to, or the procurement
of any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors, for or to any person
known to be considered legally incompetent, or for or to any person who is
physically incapacitated due to consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
      (5)   Sell, give, or dispense non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected
therewith between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays, Saturdays,
and Sundays, or between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. in any county,
upon approval as provided for in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3ss, on any Sunday; and
      (6)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises
any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors, covered by this
subchapter, to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (7)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change, or misrepresent the
quality, quantity, or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
      (8)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues-paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member;
      (9)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, facilitate the use of, or allow
the use of carbon dioxide, cyclopropane, ethylene, helium, or nitrous oxide for
purposes of human consumption except as authorized by the Commissioner;
      (10)   (a)   Employ any person who is less than 16 years of age in a
position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors to any person; or
         (b)   Employ any person who is between 16 years of age and younger
than 21 years of age who is not directly supervised by a person aged 21 or over
in a position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors to any person.
      (11)   Violate any reasonable rule of the Commissioner.
   (B)   It is lawful for any licensee to advertise price and brand in any news
media or other means outside of the licensee’s premises.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.099 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM PRIVATE CLUB.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee or consume any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquors purchased from a private club licensee, or possess any non-
intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee.
Provided, that nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer,
wine, or alcoholic liquors when he or she is acting upon the request of or
under the direction and control of any member of a state, federal, or local law
enforcement agency or the State Alcohol Beverage Administration while the
agency is conducting an investigation or other activity relating to the
enforcement of the alcohol beverage control statutes and the rules and
regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors from a private club licensee,
misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written
evidence of age which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or
illegally attempt to purchase non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors
from a licensee.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 years any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.100 ACTS PROHIBITED BY WINE DEALERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a person registered under the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 60-8-6, or for a retailer to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a licensed distributor or a farm winery as
defined in W. Va. Code § 60-1-5a;
      (2)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for by the provisions of W.
Va. Code Art. 60-8, for a licensee under W. Va. Code Art. 60-8 to acquire,
transport, possess for sale, or sell wine other than in the original package;
      (3)   For a licensee, his or her servants, agents, or employees, to sell,
furnish, or give wine to any person less than 21 years of age or to a mentally
incompetent person or person who is physically incapacitated due to the
consumption of alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs; provided, that the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 60-3A-25a shall apply to sales of wine;
      (4)   For a licensee to permit a person who is less than 18 years of age
to sell, furnish, or give wine to any person, except as provided for in
division (B) below;
      (5)   (a)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver any brand of
wine purchased or acquired from any source other than the primary source of
supply of the wine which granted the distributor the right to sell such brand
at wholesale.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY means
the vintner of the wine, the importer of a foreign wine who imports the wine
into the United States, the owner of a wine at the time it becomes a marketable
product, the bottler of a wine, or an agent specifically authorized by any of
the above enumerated persons to make a sale of the wine to a state distributor;
provided, that no retailer shall sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired
from any source other than a distributor or farm winery licensed as such in
this state; provided, however, that nothing herein is considered to prohibit
sales of convenience between distributors licensed in this state wherein one
such distributor sells, transfers, or delivers to another such distributor a
particular brand or brands for sale at wholesale of which brand or brands such
other distributor has been authorized by a licensed supplier to distribute.
         (c)   The Commissioner shall promulgate legislative rules necessary to
carry out the provision of this division (A)(5).
      (6)   For a person to violate any rule promulgated by the Commissioner
under W. Va. Code Art. 60-8.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in any licensee’s
lawful employment, including the sale of wine or distribution of wine on behalf
of a winery, farm winery, farm entity, supplier, or distributor under the
provisions of this section.
         (b)   With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee may
employ persons who are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age;
provided, that the person’s duties may include the sale of non-intoxicating
beer or wine only when directly supervised by a person 21 years of age or
older; provided, however, that the authorization to employ persons under 18
years of age shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license.
      (2)   Provided, further, that nothing in this section, nor any rule or
regulation of the Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any
licensee from employing any person who is at least 21 years of age for the
ordering and delivery of wine when licensed for the ordering and delivery of
wine under the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8-20) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.101 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF WINE.
   (A)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess, or serve wine or other alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   (a)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit
any person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful
employment of any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of wine.
         (b)   Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of
the Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18 but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores; provided, that such
person shall not sell or deliver wine or alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing wine or alcoholic liquor
when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control
of any member of a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency or the State
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
wine or other alcoholic liquors from a licensee, shall misrepresent his or her
age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is
false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase wine or other alcoholic liquors.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish wine or other
alcoholic liquors from any source to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom
they are not related by blood or marriage.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8-20a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.102 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person who is 18 or over but under the age of 21 years
shall purchase, consume, sell, serve, or possess alcoholic liquor.
         (b)   Any person who is under 18 years who purchases, consumes, sells,
serves, or possesses alcoholic liquor is guilty of a status offense, as that
term is defined in W. Va. Code § 49-1-4, and, upon adjudication therefor, shall
be referred to the Department of Health and Human Resources for services, as
provided in W. Va. Code § 49-5-11.
      (2)   Nothing is this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
a licensee which includes the sale and serving of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor when he or
she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any
member of a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency or the State
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, for the purpose of
purchasing liquor from a retail licensee, misrepresent his or her age, or for
such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is false,
fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to purchase
liquor from a retail licensee.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 to whom he or she is not related by blood or marriage any liquor
from whatever source.
   (D)   No person, while on the premises of a retail outlet, shall consume
liquor or break the seal on any package or bottle of liquor.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3A-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.103 HARD CIDER.
   (A)   HARD CIDER means a type of wine that is derived primarily from the
fermentation of apples, pears, peaches, honey, or other fruit, or from apple,
pear, peach, or other fruit juice concentrate and water; contains no more than
0.64 grams of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters; contains at least 0.5% and
less than 12.5% alcohol by volume; and is advertised, labeled, offered for
sale, or sold, as hard cider or cider containing alcohol, and not as a wine,
wine product, or as a substitute for wine.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8A-1)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Except as stated in W. Va. Code Art. 60-8A, all wine
licenses and other wine requirements set forth in W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et
seq., 60-4-3b, and 60-6-2, shall apply to the manufacture, distribution, or
sale of hard cider.
         (b)   Any person or licensee legally authorized to manufacture,
distribute, or sell wine may manufacture, distribute, or sell hard cider in the
same manner and to the same persons, and subject to the same limitations and
conditions, as such license or legal right authorizes him or her to
manufacture, distribute, or sell wine.
      (2)   No additional wine license fees shall be charged for the privilege
of manufacturing, distributing, or selling hard cider.
   (C)   (1)   Except as stated in W. Va. Code Art. 60-8A, all hard cider
distributors are bound by all wine distribution requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq., 60-4-3b, and 60-6-2, which shall apply to
distribution of hard cider.
      (2)   Any person or licensee legally authorized to distribute hard cider
may distribute hard cider in the same manner and to the same persons, and
subject to the same limitations and conditions, as a license or legal right
would authorize him or her to distribute wine.
      (3)   An additional hard cider license fee shall not be charged for the
privilege of distributing hard cider.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8A-2)
§ 130.104 OFF-PREMISES SALES NOT REQUIRED TO BE BAGGED.
   (A)   A licensee who is licensed for off-premises sales of non-intoxicating
beer or non-intoxicating craft beer is not required to place non-intoxicating
beer or non-intoxicating craft beer in a bag.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-5a)
   (B)   Alcoholic liquors in this state are not required to be placed in a bag
by a licensee who is licensed for off-premises sales of alcoholic liquors.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-3a)
MINORS
§ 130.115 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   No person 18 years of age or older shall knowingly contribute to or
encourage the delinquency of a child.
   (B)   As used in this section, DELINQUENCY means the violation or attempted
violation of any federal or state statute, county, or municipal ordinance, or a
court order, or the habitual or continual refusal to comply, without just
cause, with the lawful supervision or direction of a parent, guardian, or
custodian.
   (C)   In addition to any penalty provided under §
130.999 and any restitution which may be ordered by the court pursuant to W.
Va. Code § 61-11A-5, the court may order any person convicted of a violation of
division (A) above to pay all or any portion of the cost of medical,
psychological, or psychiatric treatment provided the child resulting from the
acts for which the person is convicted.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any parent, guardian, or custodian who
fails or refuses, or allows another person to fail or refuse, to supply a child
under the care, custody, or control of the parent, guardian, or custodian with
necessary medical care, when medical care conflicts with the tenets and
practices of a recognized religious denomination or order of which parent,
guardian, or custodian is an adherent or member.
   (E)   It is not an essential element of the offense created by this section
that the minor actually be delinquent.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   The penalty of a bond given upon suspension of a sentence
which becomes forfeited is recoverable without a separate suit.
         (b)   The court may cause a citation or a summons to issue to the
principal and surety, requiring that they appear at a time named by the court,
not less than ten days, from the issuance of the summons, and show cause why a
judgment should not be entered for the penalty of the bond and execution issued
against the property of the principal and the surety.
      (2)   (a)   Any money collected or paid upon an execution, or upon the
bond, shall be deposited with the Clerk of the court in which the bond was
given.
         (b)   The money shall be applied first to the payment of all court
costs and then to the treatment, care, or maintenance of the child who was at
issue when the offender was convicted of this section.
   (G)   If the guilty person had custody of the child prior to conviction, the
court or judge may, on suspending sentence, permit the child to remain in the
custody of the person, and make it a condition of suspending sentence that the
person provides whatever treatment and care may be required for the welfare of
the child, and shall do whatever may be calculated to secure obedience to the
law or to remove the cause of the delinquency.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8D-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.116 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse, or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody, or control of any minor child shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological, or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the
need for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.117 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (A)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether the property be real, personal, or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing, and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT or PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
   (C)   (1)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall
include, but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, County
Commission and Board of Education, or other political subdivision of this state
or any person or organization of any kind or character.
      (2)   The action may be brought in magistrate or another court of
competent jurisdiction. Recovery hereunder shall be limited to the actual
damages, based upon direct out-of-pocket loss, taxable court costs, and
interest from date of judgment.
      (3)   The right of action and remedy granted herein shall be in addition
to and not exclusive of any rights of action and remedies therefor against a
parent or parents for the tortious acts of his or her, or their, children
heretofore existing under the provisions of any law, statutory, or otherwise,
or now so existing independently of the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2)
§ 130.118 ABANDONED AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance or other
airtight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-26) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.119 TOBACCO USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this article, the term:
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any non-combustible product containing
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, or ingested by any other means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does
not include any tobacco product, vapor product, or product regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT and TOBACCO-DERIVED PRODUCT. Any product, containing,
made or derived from tobacco, or containing nicotine derived from tobacco, that
is intended for human consumption, whether smoked, breathed, chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, vaporized, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other
means, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, little
cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, snus, chewing tobacco, or other common tobacco-
containing products. A TOBACCO-DERIVED PRODUCT includes electronic cigarettes
or similar devices, alternative nicotine products, and vapor products. TOBACCO
PRODUCT or TOBACCO-DERIVED PRODUCT does not include any product that is
regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any non-combustible product containing nicotine that
employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit or other
electronic, chemical or mechanical means, regardless of shape and size, that
can be used to produce vapor from nicotine in a solution or other form. VAPOR
PRODUCT includes any electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and any vapor
cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solution or other form that is
intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device. VAPOR
PRODUCT does not include any product that is regulated by the United States
Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act.
   (B)   Sale or gift of tobacco to persons under 18. No person, firm,
corporation, or business entity may sell, give, or furnish, or cause to be
sold, given or furnished, to any person under the age of 18 years:
      (1)   Any pipe, cigarette paper, or any other paper prepared,
manufactured, or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco or tobacco
product;
      (2)   Any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, or tobacco product,
in any form; or
      (3)   Any tobacco-derived product, alternative nicotine product, or vapor
product.
   (C)   Any employer who discovers that his or her employee has sold or
furnished tobacco products or tobacco-derived products to minors may dismiss
such employee for cause. Any such discharge shall be considered as “gross
misconduct” for the purposes of determining the discharged employee’s
eligibility for unemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of W.
Va. Code § 21a-6-3 if the employer has provided the employee with prior written
notice in the workplace that such act or acts may result in their termination
from employment.
(W. Va. C 16-9A-2)
   (D)   Use or possession of tobacco or tobacco-derived products by persons
under the age of 18 years. A person under the age of eighteen years shall not
have on or about his or her person or premises or use any cigarette, or
cigarette paper or any other paper prepared, manufactured or made for the
purpose of smoking any tobacco products, in any form; any pipe, snuff, chewing
tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-derived product; provided, that minors
participating in the inspection of locations where tobacco products or tobacco-
derived products are sold or distributed pursuant to W. Va. Code § 16-9A-7 is
not considered to violate the provisions of this division (D).
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.120 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE MINOR PRESENT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LIT TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any lighted pipe, cigarette, cigar, or other lighted
device or product containing a tobacco-based product manufactured or made for
the purpose of smoking.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A Class A, Class B, Class H, or Class J vehicle as those
terms are defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1.
   (B)   No person who is eighteen years of age or older may smoke or possess a
lit tobacco product in a motor vehicle if an individual sixteen years of age or
less is in the motor vehicle.
   (C)   Enforcement of this section may only be accomplished as a secondary
action when a driver of a vehicle, as defined in this section, has been
detained for probable cause of violating another section of this Traffic Code.
Each time a driver of a vehicle is detained for probable cause of violating
another provision of this Traffic Code and is cited for the offense created
pursuant to this section, it shall be considered a single offense regardless of
the number of individuals sixteen years of age or less in the motor vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-11)
OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
§ 130.135 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act that places another in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
   (B)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature to the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.136 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No person shall commit an assault:
      (1)   By unlawfully attempting to commit a violent injury to the person
of a school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or
her duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment, or if the
motive for the assault is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to
supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-
1 or 18A-5-1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully committing an act which places a school employee in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury while the
employee is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or
from his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the assault is
retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline
one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
   (B)   No person shall commit a battery:
      (1)   By unlawfully and intentionally making physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with the person of a school employee while he or
she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or from
his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the battery is retaliation
for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline one or more
pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a school
employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is
commuting to or from his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the
battery is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or
discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
   (C)   (1)   For the purposes of this section, SCHOOL EMPLOYEE means a person
employed by a County Board of Education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis, or otherwise.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, a SCHOOL EMPLOYEE includes a
student teacher.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-15) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.137 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON GOVERNMENTAL REPRESENTATIVES, HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS, UTILITY WORKERS, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE
PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed by the State Division of
Corrections or the State Regional Jail Authority.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE PERSONNEL. Any paid or volunteer firefighter, emergency
medical technician, paramedic, or other emergency services personnel employed
by or under contract with an emergency medical service provider or a state
agency or political subdivision thereof.
      GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE. Any officer or employee of the state or a
political subdivision thereof, or a person under contract with a state agency
or political subdivision thereof.
      HEALTH CARE WORKER. Any nurse, nurse practitioner, physician, physician
assistant, or technician practicing at, and all persons employed by or under
contract to a hospital, county, or district health department, long-term care
facility, physician’s office, clinic, or outpatient treatment facility.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The same definition as this term is defined in
W. Va. Code § 30-29-1, except for purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER shall additionally include those individuals defined as CHIEF EXECUTIVE
in W. Va. Code § 30-29-1.
      UTILITY WORKER. Any individual employed by a public utility or electric
cooperative or under contract to a public utility, electric cooperative, or
interstate pipeline.
   (B)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully, knowingly, and intentionally make
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with a government
representative, health care worker, utility worker, emergency service
personnel, correctional employee, or law enforcement officer acting in his or
her official capacity and the person committing the battery knows or has reason
to know that the victim is acting in his or her official capacity, or
unlawfully and intentionally causes physical harm to that person acting in such
capacity and the person committing the battery knows or has reason to know that
the victim is acting in his or her official capacity. Whoever violates this
division (B) is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense.
   (C)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of a government representative, health care worker, utility
worker, emergency service personnel, correctional employee, or law enforcement
officer, acting in his or her official capacity and the person committing the
battery knows or has reason to know that the victim is acting in his or her
official capacity, or unlawfully commits an act which places that person acting
in his or her official capacity in reasonable apprehension of immediately
receiving a violent injury and the person committing the battery knows or has
reason to know that the victim is acting in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   Incarceration. Any person convicted of any crime set forth in this
section who is incarcerated in a facility operated by the State Division of
Corrections or the State Regional Jail Authority, at the time of committing the
offense and whose victim is a correctional employee, may not be sentenced in a
manner by which the sentence would run concurrent with any other sentence being
served at the time of sentencing, but shall run consecutively to the current
sentence.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-10(b)) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.138 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Except as authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A, it is unlawful for any
person to manufacture, deliver, or possess with intent to manufacturer or
deliver a controlled substance.
   (B)   Except as authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A, it is unlawful for any
person to create, deliver, or possess with intent to deliver a counterfeit
substance.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess a
controlled substance unless the substance was obtained directly from, or
pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in
the course of his or her professional practice, or except as otherwise
authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
(W. Va. Code § 60A-4-401)
   (D)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally:
         (a)   To create, distribute, or deliver, or possess with intent to
distribute or deliver an imitation controlled substance; or
         (b)   To create, possess, or sell or otherwise transfer any equipment
with the intent that the equipment shall be used to apply a trademark, trade
name or other identifying mark, imprint, number or device, or any likeness
thereof, upon a counterfeit substance, an imitation controlled substance or the
container or label of a counterfeit substance or an imitation controlled
substance.
      (2)   The provisions of division (D)(1) above shall not apply to a
practitioner who administers or dispenses a placebo.
(W. Va. Code § 60A-4-401) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.139 BREATHING, INHALING, DRINKING CERTAIN INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally breathe, inhale, or drink any
compound, liquid, or chemical containing acetone, amylacetate, benzol or
benzene, butyl acetate, butyl alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform,
cyclohexanone, ethanol or ethyl alcohol, ethyl acetate, hexane, isopropanol or
isopropyl alcohol, isopropyl acetate, methyl “cellosolve” acetate, methyl ethyl
ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, toluol or toluene, trichloroethylene, tricresyl
phosphate, xylol or xylene, or any other solvent, material substance, chemical,
or combination thereof, having the property or releasing toxic vapors for the
purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis, or irrational behavior or in any manner changing,
distorting, or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental processes.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, any condition so induced shall be
deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who commits any act described herein pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to so
direct or prescribe, including the inhalation of anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes; or
      (2)   To any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer as defined in W.
Va. Code § 60-1-5.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-11)
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
§ 130.150 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARD-NOT-PRESENT CREDIT or DEBIT TRANSACTION. A credit or debit sale of
merchandise by telephone, mail order, internet, or other means that does not
require the cardholder’s signature or physical presentation of the credit or
debit card to the merchant.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold, or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held,
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuffs, wares, or personal property or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held, or offered
for sale, or a shopping cart.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents, or other agents.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of the merchandise,
or in the event of altering, transferring or removing a price marking or
causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail
value of the merchandise, as defined in division (B) below, the difference
between the merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the altered price.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-6)
   (B)   Shoplifting defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of SHOPLIFTING if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         (a)   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         (b)   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         (c)   Alters, transfers, or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         (d)   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         (e)   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         (f)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment; or
         (g)   Repudiates a card-not-present credit or debit transaction after
having taken delivery of merchandise ordered from the merchant and does not
return the merchandise or attempt to make other arrangements with the vendor.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-1)
   (C)   Breach of peace; detention.
      (1)   An act of shoplifting, as defined herein, is hereby declared to
constitute a breach of peace and any owner of merchandise, his or her agent or
employee, or any law enforcement officer who has reasonable ground to believe
that a person has committed shoplifting may detain such person in a reasonable
manner and for a reasonable length of time not to exceed 30 minutes for the
purpose of investigating whether or not such person has committed or attempted
to commit shoplifting.
      (2)   Such reasonable detention shall not constitute an arrest, nor shall
it render the owner of merchandise, or his or her agent or employee, liable to
the person detained.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-4)
   (D)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         (b)   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         (c)   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-2)
   (E)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         (a)   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         (b)   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
and
         (c)   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not
including the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile
establishment or any merchant in connection with the apprehension and
processing of the suspect.
      (2)   Costs and attorneys’ fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party
under this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by division (F) below is not entitled to recover the penalty imposed
by this section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
      (4)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior shoplifting
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.151 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CULTIVATED LAND. The land which has been cleared of its natural
vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture, or
trees or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
      CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car, railroad engine,
trailer, aircraft, or sleeping car, and to enter a CONVEYANCE includes taking
apart any portion of the conveyance.
      FENCED LAND.
         (a)   1.   The land which has been enclosed by a fence of substantial
construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron, steel, barbed
wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three feet in height.
            2.   For the purpose of this section it shall not be necessary to
fence any boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water
and is posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Where lands are posted, cultivated, or fenced as described
herein, then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be considered
as enclosed and posted.
      IN THE COURSE OF COMMITTING. An act committed if it occurs in an attempt
to commit the offense or in flight after the attempt or commission.
      POSTED LAND.
         (a)   Land that has:
            1.   Signs placed not more than 500 feet apart, along and at each
corner of the boundaries of the land. The signs shall be reasonably maintained,
with letters of not less than two inches in height, and the words “no
trespassing.” The signs shall be placed along the boundary line and at all
roads, driveways, and gates of entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line; or
            2.   a.   Boundaries marked with a clearly visible purple painted
marking, consisting of one vertical line no less than eight inches in length
and two inches in width, and the bottom of the mark not less than three nor
more than six feet from the ground or normal water surface. Such marks shall be
affixed to immovable, permanent objects that are no more than 100 feet apart
and readily visible to any person approaching the property.
               b.   Signs shall also be posted at all roads, driveways, or
gates of entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly noticeable from outside
the boundary line.
         (b)   It is not necessary to give notice by posting on any enclosed
land or place not exceeding five acres in area on which there is a dwelling
house or property that by its nature and use is obviously private in order to
obtain the benefits of this subchapter pertaining to trespass on enclosed
lands.
      STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent, which
has a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
      TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in, or under the property
of another, but shall not include the following:
         (a)   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions, or by the
officers, agencies, or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law;
         (b)   The exercise of rights in, under, or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement whether by written or prescriptive right;
         (c)   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry;
         (d)   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under, or upon such property; and
         (e)   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance, and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-1)
§ 130.152 PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny as defined in W. Va. Code § 61-3-13
within the town.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.153 DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-18) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.154 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure, or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (B)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface, or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-30) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.155 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES; CATV.
   (A)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make, or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire, or other conductor of gas, water, or
electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe, or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas or water, or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water, or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice, or any
other device by or at which gas, water, or electric energy is consumed, around,
or without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water, or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and no person, with like intent, shall injure or
alter any gas, water, or electric meter, or obstruct its action.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-44)
   (B)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor, or other instrument
with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire, or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat, or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas, or electric energy, without the
knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-45)
   (C)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound, or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (D)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove, or injure any cables, wires, or equipment used for distribution
of television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound, or other transmission.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.156 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk, or any substance or material
which is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the
public health, comfort, or safety.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse,
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt, or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.157 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property any excavation, well, cesspool, or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage, or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well, or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to
build, or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground
surface with rock, gravel, earth, or other suitable material.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.158 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   No person without authorization shall dump garbage or trash, or assist
in the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash, in a dumpster or other solid
waste container which is located on the property of another person and leased
or otherwise owned or maintained by another person.
   (B)   The act of throwing isolated objects into a dumpster or other solid
waste container in the prevention or elimination of litter is specifically
excepted from any penalties under this section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-53) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.159 FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINING FOOD OR LODGING.
   No person shall, at any hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or boardinghouse, or
restaurant, receive or cause to be furnished any food or accommodation with
intent to defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or
boardinghouse, or restaurant. No person shall obtain credit at any hotel, inn,
eating, lodging, or boardinghouse, or restaurant, by the use of any false
pretense or device, or by depositing in such hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, any baggage or property of less value than the
amount of such credit, or of the bill by such person incurred, with such
fraudulent intent. No person after obtaining credit or accommodation at any
hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or boardinghouse, or restaurant, shall abscond
from such hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or boardinghouse, or restaurant, or
shall remove or attempt to remove therefrom any baggage or personal property of
any kind subject to the lien provided for in W. Va. Code § 38-11-5, with intent
to defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging, or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, without first having paid, satisfied, or arranged
all claims or bills for lodging, entertainment, or accommodation.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-40) Penalty, see §
130.999
RAILROADS
§ 130.170 OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARRIER, RAILROAD, or RAILROAD COMPANY. A common carrier by railroad.
      TRAIN or TRAINS. Engines, cars, and any type of railroad equipment or
rolling stock, or any part thereof, capable of blocking any crossing of a
railroad track or tracks and any public street, road, or highway.
   (B)   Blocking of crossing prohibited; time limit.
      (1)   (a)   No railroad company, except in an emergency, shall order,
allow, or permit the operation of or operate its system so that a train blocks
the passage of vehicular traffic over the railroad crossing of any public
street, road, or highway for a period longer than ten minutes.
         (b)   This division (B) does not apply to an obstruction of any such
street, road, or highway caused by a continuously moving train or caused by
circumstances wholly beyond the control of the railroad, but does apply to all
other obstructions as aforesaid, including, but not limited to, those caused by
a stopped train or a train engaged in switching, loading, or unloading
operations.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receiving notification from a law enforcement officer,
member of a fire department, operator of an emergency medical vehicle, or a
member of an emergency services provider that emergency circumstances require
the immediate clearing of a public highway railroad grade crossing, the members
of the train crew of the train, railroad car, or equipment, or engine blocking
such crossing, shall immediately notify the appropriate railroad dispatcher of
the pending emergency situation.
         (b)   Upon receipt of notice of such emergency circumstances by the
train crew or dispatcher, the railroad shall immediately clear the crossing,
consistent with the safe operation of the train.
   (C)   Responsibility of railroad company. The railroad company shall be
solely responsible for the acts of its agents and employees in violating any
provision of this section.
   (D)   Presumption. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a train is
operated by the carrier whose marks, numbers, signs, and symbols of
identification appear on the engine or caboose of such train.
   (E)   Service of process. Process issuing for a violation of this section
may be served upon the engineer or conductor of the train causing a violation
of the provisions of this section or any other officer, agent, or attorney-in-
fact of the railroad company authorized by law to receive service of summons or
other process issuing against such railroad company.
(W. Va. Code Art. 31-2A) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.171 TRESPASSING.
   No person, not a passenger or employee, shall be found trespassing upon any
railroad or traction car or train of any railroad, by jumping on or off any car
or train in motion, on its arrival at or departure from any station or depot of
such railroad, or on the passage of any such car or train over any part of such
railroad; nor shall any person drive any horse or any horse-drawn or motor-
driven vehicle across or upon any railroad track or bridge, except at public or
private crossings.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-43) Penalty, see §
130.999
WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.185 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE FIREARM.
      (1)   Any firearm, including, but not limited to, a firearm with a match
lock, flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type of ignition system which was
manufactured on or before 1898;
      (2)   Any replica of any firearm described in division (1) above if such
replica is not designed or redesigned to use rimfire or conventional centerfire
fixed ammunition which is no longer manufactured in the United States and which
is not readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade; and
      (3)   Any muzzle-loading rifle, muzzle-loading shotgun, or muzzle-loading
pistol, which is designed to use black powder, or black powder substitute, and
which cannot use fixed ammunition. For purposes of this division (3), the term
ANTIQUE FIREARM shall not include any weapon which includes a firearm frame or
receiver, any firearm which is converted into a muzzle-loading weapon, or any
muzzle-loading weapon which can be readily converted to fire fixed ammunition
by replacing the barrel, bolt, breechblock, or any combination thereof.
   BLACKJACK. A short bludgeon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased
piece of lead or some other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or
springy shaft which increases the force of impact when a person or object is
struck. BLACKJACK includes, but is not limited to, a billy, billy club, sand
club, sandbag, or slapjack.
   CONCEALED. Hidden from ordinary observation so as to prevent disclosure or
recognition. A deadly weapon is CONCEALED when it is carried on or about the
person in such a manner that another person in the ordinary course of events
would not be placed on notice that the deadly weapon was being carried. For
purposes of CONCEALED handgun licensees, a licensee is considered to be
carrying on or about his or her person while in or on a motor vehicle if the
firearm is located in a storage area in or on the motor vehicle.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W. Va.
Code § 60A-1-101(e).
   DEADLY WEAPON.
      (1)   An instrument which is designed to be used to produce serious
bodily injury or death or is readily adaptable to such use. The term DEADLY
WEAPON includes, but is not limited to, the instruments defined in this
section, inclusive, of this section or other deadly weapons of like kind or
character which may be easily concealed on or about the person.
      (2)   For the purposes of W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1a and 61-7-11a, in
addition to the definition of KNIFE set forth in this section, the term DEADLY
WEAPON also includes any instrument included within the definition of KNIFE
with a blade of three and one-half inches or less in length.
      (3)   Additionally, for the purposes of W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1a and 61-7-
11a, the term DEADLY WEAPON includes explosive, chemical, biological, and
radiological materials.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the term
DEADLY WEAPON does not include any item or material owned by the school or
county board intended for curricular use, and used by the student at the time
of the alleged offense solely for curricular purposes.
      (5)   The term DEADLY WEAPON does not include pepper spray as defined in
this section when used by any person solely for self-defense purposes.
   DRUG. The same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W. Va. Code § 60A-1-
101(m).
   FIREARM. Any weapon which will expel a projectile by action of an explosion;
provided, that it does not mean an antique firearm as defined in this section,
except for the purposes of W. Va. Code § 48-27-502.
   GRAVITY KNIFE. Any knife that has a blade released from the handle by the
force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force, and when released is
locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever, or other locking or
catching device.
   KNIFE.
      (1)   An instrument, intended to be used or readily adaptable to be used
as a weapon, consisting of a sharp-edged or sharp-pointed blade, usually made
of steel, attached to a handle, which is capable of inflicting cutting,
stabbing, or tearing wounds.
      (2)   The term KNIFE includes, but is not limited to, any dagger, dirk,
poniard, or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half inches in length, any
switchblade knife or gravity knife, and any other instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing, or tearing wounds.
      (3)   A pocket knife with a blade three and one-half inches or less in
length, a hunting or fishing knife carried for hunting, fishing, sports, or
other recreational uses, or a knife designed for use as a tool or household
implement shall not be included within the term KNIFE as defined herein, unless
the knife is knowingly used or intended to be used to produce serious bodily
injury or death.
   METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES.
      (1)   A set of finger rings attached to a transverse piece to be worn
over the front of the hand for use as a weapon and constructed in such a manner
that, when striking another person with the fist or closed hand, considerable
physical damage may be inflicted upon the person who was struck.
      (2)   The term METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES includes any such instrument
without reference to the metal or other substance or substances from which the
metallic or false knuckles are made.
   NUNCHAKU. A flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts,
connected by a chain, cable, rope, or other nonrigid, flexible, or springy
material, constructed in a manner that allows the rigid parts to swing freely
so that one rigid part may be used as a handle and the other rigid part may be
used as the striking end.
   PEPPER SPRAY. A temporarily disabling aerosol that is composed partly of
capsicum oleoresin and causes irritation, blinding of the eyes, and
inflammation of the nose, throat, and skin that is intended for self-defense
use.
   PISTOL. A short firearm having a chamber which is integral with the barrel,
designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   REVOLVER. A short firearm having a cylinder of several chambers that are
brought successively into line with the barrel to be discharged, designed to be
aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   SWITCHBLADE KNIFE. Any knife having a spring-operated blade which opens
automatically upon pressure being applied to a button, catch, or other
releasing device in its handle.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-2)
§ 130.186 CARRYING A DEADLY WEAPON WITHOUT PROVISIONAL LICENSE OR OTHER
AUTHORIZATION BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   No person under 21 years of age and not otherwise prohibited from possessing
firearms under § 130.182 shall carry a concealed deadly weapon without a state
license or other lawful authorization established under the provisions of the
state code.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.187 EXCEPTIONS.
      (A)   The provisions in §
130.186 do not apply to any person at least 18 years of age and fewer than 21
years of age who is:
      (1)   Carrying a deadly weapon upon his or her own premises;
      (2)   Carrying a firearm, unloaded, from the place of purchase to his or
her home, residence, or place of business or to a place of repair and back to
his or her home, residence, or place of business;
      (3)   Possessing a firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while
traveling from his or her home, residence, or place of business to a hunting
site and returning to his or her home, residence, or place of business;
      (4)   A member of a properly organized target-shooting club authorized by
law to obtain firearms by purchase or requisition from this state or from the
United States for the purpose of target practice from carrying any pistol, as
defined in this subchapter, unloaded, from his or her home, residence, or place
of business to a place of target practice, and from any place of target
practice back to his or her home, residence, or place of business, for using
any such weapon at a place of target practice in training and improving his or
her skill in the use of the weapons;
      (5)   A law enforcement officer, law enforcement official, or chief
executive as defined in W. Va. Code § 30-29-1;
      (6)   An employee of the State Division of Corrections duly appointed
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 25-1-11c, while the employee is on duty;
      (7)   A member of the United States Armed Forces, Reserve, or National
Guard;
      (8)   A resident of another state who holds a valid permit or license to
possess or carry a handgun issued by a state or a political subdivision subject
to the provisions and limitations set forth in W. Va. Code § 61-7-6a;
      (9)   A federal law enforcement officer or federal police officer
authorized to carry a weapon in the performance of the officer’s duty; and
      (10)   A parole officer appointed pursuant to W. Va. Code § 62-12-14 in
the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   (1)   The following judicial officers and prosecutors and staff are
exempt from paying any application fees or licensure fees required under the
state code.
      (2)   However, they shall make application and satisfy all licensure and
handgun safety and training requirements to obtain a license as set forth in W.
Va. Code § 61-7-4:
         (a)   Any justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of the state;
         (b)   Any circuit judge;
         (c)   Any retired justice or retired circuit judge designated senior
status by the Supreme Court of Appeals of the state;
         (d)   Any family court judge;
         (e)   Any magistrate;
         (f)   Any prosecuting attorney;
         (g)   Any assistant prosecuting attorney; or
         (h)   Any duly appointed investigator employed by a prosecuting
attorney.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-6)
§ 130.188 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall possess a firearm,
as such is defined in §
130.185, who:
      (1)   Has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year;
      (2)   Is habitually addicted to alcohol;
      (3)   Is an unlawful user of or habitually addicted to any controlled
substance;
      (4)   (a)   Has been adjudicated to be mentally incompetent or who has
been involuntarily committed to a mental institution pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code Ch. 27 or in similar law of another jurisdiction.
         (b)   Provided, that once an individual has been adjudicated as a
mental defective or involuntarily committed to a mental institution, he or she
shall be duly notified that they are to immediately surrender any firearms in
their ownership or possession; provided, however, that the Mental Hygiene
Commissioner or circuit judge shall first make a determination of the
appropriate public or private individual or entity to act as conservator for
the surrendered property.
      (5)   Is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States;
      (6)   Has been discharged from the armed forces under dishonorable
conditions;
      (7)   Is subject to a domestic violence protective order that:
         (a)   Was issued after a hearing of which such person received actual
notice and at which such person had an opportunity to participate;
         (b)   Restrains such person from harassing, stalking, or threatening
an intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person,
or engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable
fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; and
         (c)   1.   Includes a finding that such person represents a credible
threat to the physical safety of such intimate partner or child; or
            2.   By its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use, or
threatened use of physical force against such intimate partner or child that
would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.
      (8)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor offense of assault or battery
either under the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-2-28, or the provisions of W.
Va. Code § 61-2-9(a) or (b), or a federal or state statute with the same
essential elements in which the victim was a current or former spouse, current
or former sexual or intimate partner, person with whom the defendant has a
child in common, person with whom the defendant cohabits or has cohabited, a
parent or guardian, the defendant’s child or ward, or a member of the
defendant’s household at the time of the offense or has been convicted in any
court of any jurisdiction of a comparable misdemeanor crime of domestic
violence.
   (B)   Any person prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of
division (A) above may petition the circuit court of the county in which he or
she resides to regain the ability to possess a firearm, and if the court finds
by clear and convincing evidence that the person is competent and capable of
exercising the responsibility concomitant with the possession of a firearm, the
court may enter an order allowing the person to possess a firearm if such
possession would not violate any federal law; provided, that a person
prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of division (A)(4) above
may petition to regain the ability to possess a firearm in accordance with W.
Va. Code § 61-7A-5.
   (C)   Any person may carry a concealed deadly weapon without a license
therefor who is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   A United States citizen or legal resident thereof;
      (3)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of
this section; and
      (4)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of 18
U.S.C. § 922(g) or (n).
   (D)   Any person who has been convicted of an offense which disqualifies him
or her from possessing a firearm by virtue of a criminal conviction whose
conviction was expunged or set aside or who subsequent thereto receives an
unconditional pardon for said offense shall not be prohibited from possessing a
firearm by the provisions of the section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.189 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to the
contrary, a person under the age of 18 years who is not married or otherwise
emancipated shall not possess or carry concealed or openly any deadly weapon;
provided, that a minor may possess a firearm upon premises owned by such minor
or his or her family or on the premises of another with the permission of his
or her family, with the permission of the owner or lessee of such property.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a minor from possessing a firearm while
hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from a place where he or she may
lawfully possess a deadly weapon, to a hunting site, and returning to a place
where he or she may lawfully possess such weapon.
   (B)   A violation of this section by a person under the age of 18 years
shall subject the child to the jurisdiction of the circuit court under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 49-4-701 et seq., and such minor may be proceeded
against in the same manner as if he or she had committed an act which if
committed by an adult would be a crime, and may be adjudicated delinquent.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.190 POSSESSION OF MACHINE GUNS.
   No person shall carry, transport, or have in his or her possession any
machine gun, submachine gun, or any other fully automatic weapon unless he or
she has fully complied with applicable federal statutes and all applicable
rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
relating to such firearms.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.191 DEADLY WEAPONS FOR SALE.
   A person may not knowingly sell, rent, give, or lend, or, where the person
is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
knowingly sell, rent, give, or lend, any deadly weapon other than a firearm to
a person prohibited from possessing a deadly weapon other than a firearm by any
provision of this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.192 BRANDISHING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon, whether licensed to
carry the same or not, shall carry, brandish, or use such weapon in a way or
manner to cause, or threaten, a breach of the peace.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.193 POSSESSING DEADLY WEAPONS ON PREMISES OF EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall shoot or discharge any firearm as follows:
      (1)   Across or in any public road in the municipality, at any time;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any school or church;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any dwelling house; provided, that a person who
is a resident of a dwelling house, and his or her authorized guest, may shoot
or discharge a firearm in a lawful manner within 500 feet of the dwelling house
where the person lives if the firearm is being discharged with the express or
implied knowledge and consent of all residents of that dwelling house, and no
other dwelling houses are located within 500 feet of where the firearm is
discharged; or
      (4)   On or near any park or other place where persons gather for
purposes of pleasure.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, any person
operating a gun repair shop, licensed to do business in the state and duly
licensed under applicable federal statutes, is exempt from the prohibition
established by this section for the purpose of testing firearms.
(Ord. 2208, passed 11-20-2014) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.194 FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION, AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   FIREWORKS means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration, or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols,
toy cannons, toy canes, or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of
unmanned balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, or other
fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or
flammable compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, except that the term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and
model rocket engines, designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable acro models, and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in
accordance with the United States Department of Transportation regulations for
packing and shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and toy paper or
plastic caps manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall
be permitted at all times.
      (2)   Each package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for
retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
      (3)   The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered
FIREWORKS and require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to
sell, as provided in W. Va. Code § 11-12-86:
         (a)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols; provided,
that the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed 0.25 of a grain for
each cap;
         (b)   Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a
pyrotechnic mixture that produce a large snake-like ash when burning;
         (c)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
         (d)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to
surprise the user and which include:
            a.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of 0.25 of a grain of explosive mixture. A string
protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device, expelling paper
streamers, and producing a small report;
            b.   A string popper which is a small tube containing not in excess
of 0.25 of a grain of explosive mixture with string protruding from both ends.
The strings are pulled to activate the friction- sensitive mixture, producing a
small report; and/or
            c.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small paper wrapped item
containing no more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive mixture coated on small
bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
         (e)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with non-
explosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition.
These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
         (f)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and
sometimes a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or
explode, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the
air, and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not
more than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided, that
sparklers and sparkler devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to
anyone below the age of 16 years old.
(W. Va. Code § 29-3-23)
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership,
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks; provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the State Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs, and
the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every such
display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as to
competency by the State Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section and
W. Va. Code Art. 29-3 and the regulations of the State Fire Commission;
provided, that the municipality shall not be required to file such bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm, or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm,
or corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character,
and form as the State Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the
protection of the public.
(W. Va. Code § 29-3-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.195 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol, or other firearm within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty, or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.196 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall throw, shoot, or propel an arrow, missile, pellet,
stone, metal, or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to
persons or property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of
another, or from any private property into or onto any public place or the
property of another.
   (B)   This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or
instruction, nor when otherwise lawfully authorized.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
130.001 through
130.008 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.001 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-14)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.002(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or confined in jail not more than
one year, or both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.002(B) shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than five
days, or both.
         (c)   Whoever violates §
130.002(C) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or confined in jail not more than
one year, or both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
         (d)   Whoever violates §
130.002(D) shall be fined not more than $1,000, and shall be imprisoned not
more than 30 days.
         (e)   Whoever violates §
130.002(E) shall be fined not less than $1,000, nor more than $3,000, and shall
be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
         (f)   Whoever violates §
130.002(H) shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $2,000, or
imprisoned not less than one day nor more than 30 days, or both fined and
imprisoned.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
         (g)   Any person who violates §
130.002(I) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or confined in jail not more than six months, or
both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.003 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17)
      (5)   Whoever violates §
130.004(A) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or confined
in jail for not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.020(A) shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $2,000, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. Any person
convicted of a second or subsequent violation of §
130.020(A) shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not less than
$500 nor more than $3,000, or both. The incarceration set forth in this
division (B)(1) shall be mandatory unless the provisions of division (B)(1)(b)
below are complied with.
         (b)   1.   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
no person who has been convicted of a violation of the provisions of §
130.020(A) may be granted probation until the defendant has undergone a
complete psychiatric or psychological evaluation and the court has reviewed
such evaluation. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be
indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the cost of said evaluation.
            2.   For any person convicted of a violation of division (B)(1)(a)
above, the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this division
(B), impose a requirement that he or she complete a program of anger management
intervention for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is
determined by the court to be indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the
cost of the program.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a
violation of §
130.020, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from possessing,
owning, or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period of five
years following entry of a conviction. A violation under this division (B)(2)
is punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and forfeiture of the animal.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
130.020(B) shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19)
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.021 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both. In addition, the Humane Officer may remove the dog or cat
involved and place it in the pound, and such dog or cat shall not be returned
to the owner or perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but shall be put up for
adoption to a desirable home or given into the care of a humane society or,
upon the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian, shall be humanely
destroyed.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.035 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 24 hours.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-1b)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.036 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense.
         (b)   For a second or subsequent offense, such person shall be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-14a)
      (3)   Whoever violates §
130.039 shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-29)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.053 or
130.055 shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.054 shall be fined not more than $300.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.070(A) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.070(B) shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both, and for a second offense shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   (a)   Except as provided in division (D)(3)(b) below, any person
who violates the provisions of §
130.070 shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days or fined not more than
$250, or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.075 by intentionally exposing himself or herself to another person and the
exposure was done for the purpose of sexual gratification, shall be fined not
more than $500 or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both. For a second
offense, the person shall be fined not more than $1,000 and confined in jail
for 30 days. For a third or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.075 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both.
   (F)   Whoever violates §
130.092 is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.094(A), 130.101(B), or 130.102(B) shall be fined not more than $50, or
imprisoned for not more than 72 hours, or both, or, in lieu of such fine and
imprisonment, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for not more
than one year.
      (2)   Whoever violates §§
130.094(B), 130.101(C), or 130.102(D) shall be fined not more than $100, or
imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both.
(W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-3-22a, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates divisions 130.095(A)(1) shall be sentenced
by a judicial officer in accordance with the following options:
            1.   Upon first offense, a fine of not less than $5 nor more than
$100. If the individual, prior to conviction, agrees to voluntarily attend an
alcohol education program of not more than six hours duration at the nearest
community mental health or mental retardation center, the judicial officer may
delay sentencing until the program is completed and, upon completion, may
dismiss the charges;
            2.   Upon conviction for a second offense, a fine of not less than
$5 nor more than $100 and not more than 60 days in jail, or completion of not
less than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental
health or mental retardation center.
            3.   a.   Upon third and subsequent convictions, a fine of not less
than $5 nor more than $100 and not less than five nor more than 30 days in
jail, or a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100 and completion of not
less than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental
health or mental retardation center; provided, that three convictions for
public intoxication within the preceding six months is considered evidence of
alcoholism.
               b.   For the educational counseling programs described in this
division (G)(3), the community mental health or mental retardation center may
charge each participant its usual and customary fee and shall certify in
writing to the referring judicial officer the completion or failure to complete
the prescribed program for each individual.
         (b)   A person charged with a violation of §
130.095(A)(1) who is an alcoholic shall be found not guilty by reason of
addiction and proper disposition made pursuant to W. Va. Code Art. 27-5 and 6A.
         (c)   Whoever violates §
130.095(A)(2) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100, and upon a
second or subsequent conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $100, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (d)   Whoever violates §
130.095(A)(3) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
         (e)   Whoever violates §
130.095(A)(4) or 130.095(A)(5) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$500. Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense, he or she is guilty of
a felony, and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-9)
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.097(A) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 or shall be confined in
jail, or, in the case of a juvenile, a detention facility, for a period not to
exceed 72 hours, or both fined and confined or, in lieu of such fine and
confinement, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period
not to exceed one year.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.097(B) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100 or shall be confined in
jail, or in the case of a juvenile, a juvenile detention facility, for a period
not to exceed 72 hours, or both such fine and confinement or, in lieu of such
fine and confinement, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a
period not exceeding one year.
         (c)   Whoever violates §
130.097(C) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100 or shall be confined in
jail for a period not to exceed ten days, or both such fine and confinement.
      (5)   Whoever violates §
130.098 shall be fined not less than $500 or more than $1,000, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12)
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.099(A) or 130.099(B) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both, and in addition may, for the first offense be
placed on probation for a period not to exceed one year.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.099(C) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
      (7)   (a)   Whoever violates §§
130.091(A) or 130.092(A) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than 72 hours, or both or, in lieu thereof, may, for the first offense, be
placed on probation for a period not to exceed one year.
(W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.092(C) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3A-24)
   (H)   Any person who violates any provision of W. Va. Code Art. 11-16,
including, but not limited to, any provision of §
130.096, or any rule or order lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner, or who
makes any false statement concerning any material fact in submitting an
application for a license or for a renewal of a license or in any hearing
concerning the revocation of a license, or who commits any of the acts in §
130.096 declared to be unlawful is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished for each offense by a fine of not less than $25, nor
more than $500, or confined in the county or regional jail for not less than 30
days nor more than six months, or by both fine and confinement. Magistrates
have concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit court and any other courts having
criminal jurisdiction in their county for the trial of all misdemeanors arising
under §§
130.090 through
130.104.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-18)
   (I)   Upon conviction, the court may suspend the sentence of a person found
guilty under §
130.115. A suspended sentence may be subjected to the following terms and
conditions:
      (1)   The offender pays for any and all treatment, support, and
maintenance while the child is in the custody of the state or person that the
court determines reasonable and necessary for the welfare of the child;
      (2)   The offender posts a sufficient bond to secure the payment for all
sums ordered to be paid under §
130.115, as long as the bond does not exceed $5,000; and
      (3)   The offender participates in any program or training that will
assist the child in correcting the delinquent behavior or, in the case of
neglect, that will assist the offender in correcting his or her behavior that
led to a violation of §
130.115.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8D-10)
   (J)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.117 shall, upon conviction, be punished as a misdemeanor by fine of not
more than $500 against the juvenile violating said curfew, or a fine not
exceeding $300 against the parent of said juvenile, or a combination of a fine
against the juvenile and his or her parents.
      (2)   In no event, however, shall the parents be forced to pay more than
$300, and in no event shall the entire fine exceed $500.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
130.118 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (4)   (a)   Any firm or corporation that violates any provision of §
130.119(B) and any individual who violates any provision of §
130.119(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined $50 for the first offense. Upon any subsequent violation at the same
location or operating unit, the firm, corporation or individual shall be fined
as follows: at least $250, but not more than $500 for the second offense, if it
occurs within two years of the first conviction; at least $500, but not more
than $750 for the third offense, if it occurs within two years of the first
conviction; and at least $1,000, but not more than $5,000 for any subsequent
offense, if the subsequent offense occurs within five years of the first
conviction.
      (b)   Any individual who knowingly and intentionally sells, gives, or
furnishes or causes to be sold, given, or furnished to any person under the age
of 18 years any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco-derived product, in any form, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, for the first offense shall be fined not more than $100;
upon conviction thereof for a second or subsequent offense, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-2)
      (c)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.119(D) shall for the first violation be fined $50 and be required to serve
eight hours of community service; for a second violation, the person shall be
fined $100 and be required to serve 16 hours of community service; and for a
third and each subsequent violation, the person shall be fined $200 and be
required to serve 24 hours of community service. Notwithstanding the provisions
of W. Va. Code § 49-4-701, the Magistrate Court has concurrent jurisdiction.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-3)
      (d) Any person who violates §
130.120 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
more than $25. No court costs or other fees may be assessed for a violation of
§
130.120.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-11)
   (K)   Whoever violates §§
130.135(A),
130.136(A), or
130.139 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (L)   (1)   In all cases, a penalty for violating §
130.150 shall be paid to the mercantile establishment in the amount of $50 or
double the value of the merchandise, whichever is higher.
      (2)   The fact that a mercantile establishment may bring an action
against an individual as provided in §
130.150 does not limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in
writing, that a person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this
section remit such damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal
action.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
      (3)   A person convicted of shoplifting, as described in §
130.150, shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
            1.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to
$500 the person is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more than
$250; and
            2.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$500 and such fine shall not be suspended; or the person shall be confined in
jail not more than thirty days, or both.
         (b)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
            1.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to
$500 the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than
$100, nor more than $500 and such fine shall not be suspended; or the person
shall be confined in jail not more than thirty days, or both; and
            2.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than $500 and shall be
confined in jail not more than 30 days.
         (c)   Mandatory penalty.
            1.   In addition to the fines and imprisonment imposed by §
130.150, in all cases of conviction for the offense of shoplifting, the court
shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the mercantile establishment
involved in the amount of $50, or double the value of the merchandise involved,
whichever is higher.
            2.   The mercantile establishment shall be entitled to collect such
mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil judgment. This penalty shall be in
addition to the mercantile establishment’s rights to recover the stolen
merchandise.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-3)
      (4)   (a)   Trespass in structure or conveyance.
            1.   Any person who knowingly enters in, upon, or under a structure
or conveyance without being authorized, licensed, or invited, or having been
authorized, licensed, or invited is requested to depart by the owner, tenant,
or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses to do so, as described in §
130.151, shall be fined not more than $100.
            2.   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous
weapon while in the structure or conveyance, with the unlawful and felonious
intent to do bodily injury to a human being in such structure or conveyance at
the time the offender knowingly trespasses, such offender shall,
notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be subject to the
penalty provided in this division (L)(4).
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-2)
         (b)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
            1.   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed, or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing, or cultivation,
shall be fined as follows.
               a.   First offense conviction. Upon a first trespassing
conviction pursuant to division (L)(4)(a) above, the person shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500.
               b.   Second offense conviction. Upon a second trespassing
conviction pursuant to division (L)(4)(a) above, the person shall be fined not
less than $500 nor more than $1,000.
               c.   Third offense conviction. Upon a third and subsequent
trespassing conviction pursuant to division (L)(4)(a) above, the person shall
be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
            2.   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally
communicated to him or her by the owner, tenant, or agent of such owner or
tenant, or if the offender opens any door, fence, or gate, and thereby exposes
animals, crops, or other property to waste, destruction, or freedom, or causes
any damage to property by such trespassing on property other than a structure
or conveyance, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in this
division (L)(4).
            3.   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous
weapon with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human
being during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other
than a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
fined not more than $100, or both.
            4.   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the
course of a willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the
amount of twice the amount of such damage; provided, that the provisions of
this section shall not apply in a labor dispute.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-3)
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates §§
130.154(B) or
130.159 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
         (b)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
130.158 shall be subject to the following penalties.
            1.   Upon a first conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $250.
            2.   Upon a second conviction, the defendant shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500.
            3.   Upon any subsequent conviction in excess of a second
conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than
$1,000, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-11A-4 or W.
Va. Code § 50-3-2a, the magistrate or court may order restitution not to exceed
the value of unauthorized solid waste services received.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-33)
   (M)   (1)   (a)   Any railroad company, carrier, or railroad violating the
provisions of §
130.170(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $150; upon a second conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
less than $250; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the same
crossing within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined not less
than $350.
         (b)   Any railroad company, carrier, or railroad violating the
provisions of §
130.170(B)(2) shall be fined not less than $1,000; upon a second conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
less than $2,500; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the
same crossing within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined not
less than $5,000.
(W. Va. Code § 31-2A-6)
         (c)   Whoever violates §
130.171 shall be fined not more than $25 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.186 shall, for a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-3)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.188 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (M)(3)(a) above, any
person shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if he or she violates any of the following. The provisions of §
130.188(B) shall not apply to persons convicted of offenses referred to in this
division (M)(3) or to persons convicted of a violation of this division (M)(3)
(b).
            1.   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction
of a felony crime of violence against the person of another or of a felony
sexual offense.
            2.   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction
of a felony controlled substance offense involving a Schedule I controlled
substance other than marijuana, or a Schedule II or a Schedule III controlled
substance as such are defined in W. Va. Code §§ 60A-2-204, 60A-2-205, and 60A-
2-206, and who possesses a firearm as such is defined in §
130.188.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-7)
      (4)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.191 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $5,000 or shall be confined in the county jail for not more
than one year, or both fined and confined, except that where the person
violating §
130.191 is other than a natural person, the person shall be fined not more than
$10,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Construction of billboards
State Building Code
   
150.15   Adoption of code
   
150.16   Definitions
   
150.17   Conflicts
Fire Prevention Code
   
150.30   Adoption of Code
   
150.31   Modifications
   
150.32   Appeals from actions of the Chief of Fire Department
   
150.33   New materials, processes, or occupancies which may require permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code by reference, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-4
   Adoption of State Building Code by reference, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-4
   Building regulation, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-13
   Promulgation of State Fire Code, see W. Va. Code § 29-3-5
   State Building Code, see W. Va. Code § 29-3-5b
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 CONSTRUCTION OF BILLBOARDS.
   There shall be a prohibition against the construction of any billboard
within the town limits of from the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this section.
(Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if set out at
length herein for the purpose of safeguarding life and property and to ensure
the quality of construction of all structures erected or removed throughout the
municipality that certain code know as the State Building Code as promulgated
by the Fire Marshal under W. Va. Code § 29-3-5b.
   (B)   The standards and requirements as set out and as published by the
Building Officials and Code Administrators International and the Council of
American Building Officials, as listed below, and as adopted by the State Fire
Marshal, shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim in this
section:
      (1)   The BOCA National Building Code;
      (2)   The BOCA National Plumbing Code;
      (3)   The BOCA National Mechanical Code;
      (4)   The BOCA National Property Maintenance Code;
      (5)   The BOCA National Energy Conservation Code; and
      (6)   The CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
§ 150.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOCA. The Building Officials and Code Administrators International, 4051
Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, Illinois, 60477-5795.
   BUILDING CODE. Includes all aspects of safe building construction and
mechanical operations and all safety aspects related thereto.
   CABO. The Council of American Building Officials, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite
708, Falls Church, Virginia, 22041.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The State Fire Marshal and/or his or her designated
representatives.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The entire contents of this subchapter and the
referenced national codes.
§ 150.17 CONFLICTS.
   Whenever there arises a conflict between the State Fire Code and the State
Building Code, the State Fire Code shall take precedence. Whenever there arises
a conflict between the BOCA National Plumbing Code portion of the State
Building Code and the rules of the State Board of Health, the rules of the
Board of Health shall take precedence. Whenever there arises a conflict between
the State Building Code and statutory laws of the state, the State Building
Code shall take precedence.
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 150.30 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, as if set out
at length herein, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosions, that certain
code known as the State Fire Code, which became effective March 30, 1984.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal and other sworn officers of the Fire Department, as
appointed by the Fire Chief, are hereby empowered to enforce the Fire Code and
to issue summonses to violators of its provisions.
§ 150.31 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall have power to modify
any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code adopted by this subchapter
upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of such code; provided, that the spirit of such code
shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed, and the
decision of the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention thereon shall be entered
upon the records of the Fire Department, and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant.
§ 150.32 APPEALS FROM ACTIONS OF THE CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department disapproves an application or
refuses to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code adopted by this subchapter do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the Fire Prevention Code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Chief of the Fire Department to Council within 30 days from the date of
the decision appealed.
§ 150.33 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The Mayor, the Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the Bureau of
Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes, or
occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in
the Fire Prevention Code. The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall post
such list in a conspicuous place in his or her office, and distribute copies
thereof to interested persons.
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
150.01 will result in a fine of $100 per day for each day of the violation.
Violators will also be subject for civil assessments to cover the legal
expenses arising out of violations.    
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.30 through
150.33, for which no other penalty is provided or fails to comply therewith; or
violates or fails to comply with any order made thereunder; or builds in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder and from
which no appeal has been taken; or fails to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within
the time fixed herein, shall severally for each such violation and non-
compliance, respectively, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions
are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application of any
penalty pursuant to this section shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. passed 6-13-1994)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Authority
   
151.002   Intent
   
151.003   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.004   Applicability
   
151.005   Matters not provided for specifically
   
151.006   Liability
Interpretations and Definitions
   
151.020   Interpretations
   
151.021   Definitions
Establishment of the Special Flood Hazard Area
   
151.035   Identification
   
151.036   Descriptions of special flood hazard areas
   
151.037   Changes in designation of area
   
151.038   Boundary disputes
   
151.039   Elevations prevail
Utilization of the Special Flood Hazard Area
   
151.050   Floodway
   
151.051   Floodway fringe
   
151.052   AE without floodway
   
151.053   Approximated floodplain (Zone A)
   
151.054   Alteration or relocation of a stream
Criteria for Building and Site Plan Approval
   
151.065   General
   
151.066   Basic format
   
151.067   Elevation, flood-proofing information
   
151.068   Site plan criteria
   
151.069   Restrictions to subdivision of land in special flood hazard areas
Specific Requirements
   
151.080   Design, construction standards
Administration
   
151.095   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.096   Development permits, site plan approvals required
   
151.097   Approval of permits, plans
   
151.098   Application procedures
   
151.099   Changes
   
151.100   Permit placards
   
151.101   Start of construction
   
151.102   Inspections, stop-work orders, violation notice, revocations
   
151.103   Certificate of compliance
   
151.104   Fees
Appeals
   
151.115   Appeals
   
151.116   Appeal review criteria
Government Actions
   
151.130   Jurisdictional boundary changes
   
151.131   Permits for governmental entities
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter have been prepared with the intention
of meeting the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.) amended by the Congress of the United States of
February 15, 1975 (Pub. Law No. 91-152).
   (B)   Authority to adopt, administer, and enforce this chapter is vested in
the town pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 8-12-14, 7-1-3n, 7-1-3v, and 7-1-3kk, and/
or W. Va. Code § 8A-4-2, 8A-5-7, and 8A-7-2.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the town;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future and protect natural
drainage;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water supply
and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian;
   (D)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning improvement
of real property as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a;
   (E)   Assure County E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency of
established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (F)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the town, its governmental units,
and its residents, by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.003 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business, or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any
development, new construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial
damage, or the placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured
homes) within the town, unless a permit application has been completed and a
permit or certificate of compliance has been obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. In addition, where land partially or fully in the special flood
hazard area is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or
subdivision, or otherwise developed as defined in this chapter, a site plan
with elevation data shall be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain
Administrator prior to any development.
   (B)   Provisions of all other codes, ordinances, and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.005 MATTERS NOT PROVIDED FOR SPECIFICALLY.
   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided for
herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent, and shall require the
applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.006 LIABILITY.
   The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or development plan in
an identified flood-prone area shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the town or by any official or employee
thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed use, and shall create
no liability upon the town.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
§ 151.020 INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following interpretations shall apply.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   The singular includes the plural.
   (C)   The plural includes the singular.
   (D)   The word PERSON includes a corporation, unincorporated association, or
partnership as well as an individual.
   (E)   The term SHALL or WILL is always mandatory.
   (F)   The word BUILDING or STRUCTURE shall be construed as if followed by
the phrase “or part thereof.”
   (G)   The word CHAPTER shall refer to the Floodplain Ordinance, or “this
chapter.”
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to the datum specified on the town’s Flood Insurance Rate Map. For the
purposes of this chapter, the 100-year flood or 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that all development is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the special flood hazard area used to balance the loss
of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed
within the special flood hazard area.
   CONTRACTOR. Per W. Va. Code § 21-11-3(c):
      (1)   A person who in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck, or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure, or excavation associated with a project, development, or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $1,000 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee; and
      (2)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
         (a)   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
         (b)   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
         (c)   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and who
functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board, whose
primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management, and
maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional capacity and any
employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or her employment,
performs any work which may be considered to be performing contracting work;
         (d)   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code § 19-16a-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire, unless the
operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property treated
for insect pests; or
         (e)   A corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship whose primary
purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
contractors defined in this section and who employs full-time a registered
architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which even a slight chance of flooding is
too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, storage of critical records, and similar facilities.
These should be given special consideration when formulating regulatory
alternatives and Floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY should not be
located in a special flood hazard area if at all possible. If a CRITICAL
FACILITY must be located in a special flood hazard area it should be provided a
higher level of protection so that it can continue to function and provide
services during a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the town. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information, and water
surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream, or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of Floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream
crossings, and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed. FREEBOARD
also tends to lower the cost of flood insurance.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the development or structure foundation. This
is primarily used during insurance rating in approximated floodplains.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly hy the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME RETAILER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the state code.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the state code.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the State Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in the state code.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the proposed development or structure
foundation. The primary use of the LAG is to determine whether the structure is
located within a special flood hazard area by comparing it to the base flood
elevation.
   LOWEST FLOOR.
      (1)   The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood-resistant materials as defined
in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2 and usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
      (2)   Provided, that such enclosure has proper flood openings and is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities.
      (2)   The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION as herein
defined commenced on or after May 2, 1977, and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after effective date
of the town’s first floodplain ordinance adopted by the town and before the
effective start date of this floodplain management chapter is subject to the
ordinance in effect
at the time the ordinance was issued; provided, the start of construction was
within 180 days of permit issuance.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association, or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
      (1)   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code Art. 13,
the adequate performance of which requires engineering education, training, and
experience in the application of special knowledge of the mathematical,
physical, and engineering sciences to such services or creative work as
consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning, and design of engineering
works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of advanced
engineering subjects, engineering surveys, and studies; and the review of
construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects, and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health, or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress, and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of engineered
projects.
      (2)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card, or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code Art.
13, or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs any
engineering service or work or any other service designated by the practitioner
which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or offer to
practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code Art. 13.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered or
licensed as a REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER by the State Board of
Registration for professional engineers as required under W. Va. Code Art. 13
et seq.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water should not
damage structures and any subsurface waters related to the base flood should
not damage existing or proposed structures.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Flood Insurance
Studies and on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30, and A99.
This term shall also include areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are
specifically listed or otherwise described in this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the permit was issued; provided, the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond initial excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a permit must be
obtained prior to beginning, PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms,
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For an alteration, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The State Division of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management.
   STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3U, any watercourse, whether natural
or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows, continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The term does not, however, include any project for improvement
of a structure to correct existing violation of state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local
code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe
living conditions. Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that
would constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, as defined above, must comply with
all chapter requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from chapter requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure. For the purpose of this
definition, IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.
   TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the top of bank. In the field, a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the top of bank. When a professional is
not employed, the TOP OF THE BANK may be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the water’s edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all the requirements of this chapter. Any structure or other development
lacking the certifications, finished construction elevation certificate, or
other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as the documentation is provided.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
§ 151.035 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified special flood hazard area shall be those areas of the
town which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) prepared for
the town by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated October 2,
2012, or the most recent revision thereof including all digital data developed
as part of the FIS.
   (B)   The identified special flood hazard area shall also be those special
flood hazard areas identified by the town by use of historic or other technical
data and shown on an officially recognized Local Flood Hazards Map. These areas
shall be designated as appropriate with the level of technical data described
below and shall be managed accordingly.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.036 DESCRIPTIONS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The identified special flood hazard area shall consist of the following four
specific areas.
   (A)   The floodway shall be those areas of AE zone identified as floodways
in the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include any floodway
areas delineated by developers in the approximated floodplain and designated as
such by the community.
   (B)   The floodway fringe shall be those areas of AE zone for which specific
100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but which lie beyond
the floodway area.
   (C)   The AE area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an AE
zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year flood
elevations have been provided, but no floodway has been delineated.
   (D)   The approximated floodplain shall be those areas identified as an A
zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.037 CHANGES IN DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The delineation of the identified special flood hazard area may be
revised by the town where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or
more detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, a River Basin Commission, or other qualified agency or individual
document the necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (B)   A town’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting from
physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable, but not
later than six months after the date such information becomes available, the
town shall notify the NFIP Administrator of the changes by submitting technical
or scientific data.
   (C)   The town may identify and regulate new local flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas may be delineated on a Local Flood Hazard Map using best
available topographic data and locally derived information such as flood of
record, historic high water marks, or approximate study methodologies.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.038 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning the location of proposed development relative to
a special flood hazard area arise, an initial determination shall be made by
the Floodplain Administrator and any party aggrieved by this decision may
appeal to the town. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.039 ELEVATIONS PREVAIL.
   Elevation data certified by a licensed professional surveyor or registered
professional engineer shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (A)   The proposed development will automatically conform to the flood
damage reduction requirements of this chapter if the natural lowest adjacent
grade (LAG) to the proposed development is at or above the closest applicable
base flood elevation (BFE) specified in the Flood Insurance Study. The
applicant shall be advised to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA to have the special flood hazard area designation removed from the
structure or specific area. If the difference between LAG and BFE is modest the
applicant will also be advised to use caution during site preparation or
excavation and information concerning the preferred risk policy should be
provided.
   (B)   (1)   The proposed development shall be considered to be within the
special flood hazard area if the natural LAG to the proposed development is
below either:
         (a)   The closest applicable BFE specified in the Flood Insurance
Study; or
         (b)   The reasonably safe from flooding elevation determined by the
town in approximate floodplains.
      (2)   The proposed development shall then be required to conform to all
appropriate flood damage reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
UTILIZATION OF THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
§ 151.050 FLOODWAY.
   (A)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the town
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The resultant engineering
study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      (1)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below,
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives,
other than the floodway encroachment, before a permit is issued.
      (2)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative, the applicant
shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum necessary to
accomplish the project.
      (3)   All permitted uses, activities, and development shall be undertaken
in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained
herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
      (4)   In special flood hazard areas for which no regulatory floodway has
been designated, the regulatory floodway for small, single lot developments not
incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the town,
be determined to be the channel of the stream and the adjacent land areas to a
distance of one-half the width of the special flood hazard area as measured
from the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland limit of the 1% annual
chance special flood hazard area boundary.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.051 FLOODWAY FRINGE.
   Within any floodway fringe area, any development and/or use of land shall be
permitted; provided, that all such uses, activities, and/or development shall
be undertaken in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related
provisions contained herein and in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.052 AE WITHOUT FLOODWAY.
   Within any AE without floodway area, no new construction or development
shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than
one foot at any point. This requirement can be satisfied by utilization of the
floodway where determined.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.053 APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN (ZONE A).
   Within any approximated floodplain:
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state, or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
   (B)   (1)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed all
proposed development to determine:
         (1)   The amount being invested; and
         (2)   The specific flood risk at the site.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the applicant to
determine the elevation above which the development will be reasonably safe
from flooding using elevation data, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, or other
techniques. When hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall
only be undertaken by a registered professional engineer who shall certify that
the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The
resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted provided that
all such uses, activities, and/or development shall be undertaken in strict
compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and
in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.054 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF A STREAM.
   (A)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within the
special flood hazard area, the developer shall notify, in writing, by certified
mail, the town, the Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office,
any adjacent communities and any adjacent property owners of all such intended
activities prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all
required notifications must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA). In addition, prior to issuing the local permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require copies of all necessary permits from those
governmental agencies from which federal or state law requires approval.
See appendix 4.5 for Sample “Stream Alteration process and contact sheet”
   (B)   The developer shall also assure the town in writing that the flood
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of stream will provide equal
or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges, or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain best practice techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts, or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings, and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates, or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
   (D)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts, and other stream crossings
shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this chapter.
   (E)   The developer is required to provide the town a legal agreement
detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed on altered
or relocated watercourses including culverts, bridges, and other stream
crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer this
agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (F)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations, or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the Flood
Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
CRITERIA FOR BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL
§ 151.065 GENERAL.
   Permits are required in order to determine whether all new construction or
substantial improvements are:
   (A)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway, or other special flood
hazard area;
   (B)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2 or the most recent revision
thereof;
   (D)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   To comply with W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a concerning the County Assessor’s
building or real property improvement notice; and
   (G)   Approved by County Health Department for water and sewer to assure
facilities are designed or located in compliance with the flood damage
reduction requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.066 BASIC FORMAT.
   The basic format of the permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of the owner of land on which proposed development is
to occur;
   (C)   Names, addresses, and valid state license numbers of all contractors
working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is being
performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing as set forth in W.
Va. Code § 28-2-3.9(b) of state regulations or the most recent revision
thereof;
   (D)   A description of the site location sufficient to locate the project
including tax map and parcel number and most recent deed book and page number;
   (E)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation, and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
   (F)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
151.103;
   (H)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
   (I)   (1)   The contract required by W. Va. Code § 28-4 and all addendums to
the contract(s) shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator for review
within five business days of contract signing. The town does not require and
will not keep copies of the contracts or addendums.
      (2)   Failure to present contract or addendums for review shall void the
permit.
      (3)   If a licensed contractor is not involved, or the work is of an
aggregate value of less than $10,000 including materials and labor, a brief
written description of proposed work and the estimated value will suffice.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.067 ELEVATION, FLOOD-PROOFING INFORMATION.
   (A)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation
requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the
freeboard height required by this chapter.
   (B)   Depending on the type of structure involved, the following information
shall also be included in the application for work within the special flood
hazard area:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure,
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures, and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas, and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         (f)   A finished construction elevation certificate shall be prepared
by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualifications.
The elevation certificate shall confirm that the structure in question,
together with attendant utilities is elevated in compliance with permit
conditions;
         (g)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the town determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below
base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall
state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (B)   For structures to be flood-proofed to two feet above the base flood
elevation (non-residential structures only), all applicants are encouraged to
exceed the minimum flood-proofing requirements contained herein. Flood
insurance rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of flood-
proofing above the height required by this chapter. In order to obtain an
elevation credited flood insurance rate on dry flood-proofed buildings, flood-
proofing must extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (1)   Plans showing details of all flood-proofing measures, prepared by a
registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed.
      (2)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing ground,
proposed finished ground, lowest floor, and flood-proofing limits, shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor.
      (3)   A flood-proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA, shall
be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the plans in
division (B)(1) above, stating that the finished structure, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities is designed so that:
         (a)   The structure is water tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact, and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures, and other factors associated with the base flood.
   (C)   For appurtenant structures constructed of flood-resistant materials
used solely for parking of vehicles or limited storage (appurtenant structures
only):
      (1)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others
of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground, proposed
finished ground, and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of proposed
flood-resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the floodway
boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present on the
site;
      (2)   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must be
prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. The elevation certificate shall confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities, is designed so that:
         (a)   Flood-resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2, are used in the construction of the structure from the lowest
structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation, and that all
utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement shall either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      (3)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided lo the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
151.999.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.068 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   Site plans are required for all development, new construction, and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a special flood hazard
area and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage. The owner or developer shall
submit a preliminary site plan to the Floodplain Administrator that includes
the following information:
   (A)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to special flood hazard areas, proposed lot sites, and
fills;
   (B)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor, or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
   (C)   Where the subdivision or manufactured home park lie partially or
completely in the special flood hazard areas, the plan map shall include
detailed information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads,
public utilities, and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas. A registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor shall certify the site
plan;
   (D)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the approximated
Floodplain and which are greater than ten lots or two acres, whichever is the
lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and shall delineate a floodway
when directed to do so by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   When a Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the data
contained in that study shall be used to substantiate the base flood.
      (2)   If a FEMA Flood Insurance Study is not available, the required data
may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service, or
state and local water resource department.
      (3)   (a)   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a Flood Insurance Study.
         (b)   This data shall be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods, when used correctly,
reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
   (E)   (1)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially
in the special flood hazard area and all proposed development, including fill,
will take place on natural grade, a significant vertical distance above the
approximated Floodplain area (Zone “A”) boundary depicted on the map,
development of detailed base flood elevation data may not be necessary.
      (2)   In these cases, the site plan for the proposed development must
show contours at intervals of two or five feet, depending on the slope, and
clearly delineate the area to be developed and the location of the special
flood hazard boundary area as scaled from the FEMA map.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor shall certify the site plan.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.069 RESTRICTIONS TO SUBDIVISION OF LAND IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   Subdivision of land in the special flood hazard area shall result in lots
that include a buildable portion outside of the special flood hazard area and
be served by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not lower
than one foot below the elevation of the line defining the special flood hazard
area limits. All new structures shall be sited on the portion of the subdivided
lot that is located outside of the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.080 DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures, and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction, and to
construction of substantial improvements, and the repair of substantial damage
to existing structures occurring in the special flood hazard area.
   (A)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation, and
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation, and
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      (4)   Non-conversion agreement. A non-conversion agreement shall be
signed by the applicant on all flood-proofed structures and any elevated
structures when the town determines that the area below the first floor could
be converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below
base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall
state:
         (a)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, and a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (B)   Manufactured home placement. Certain unique characteristics of
manufactured homes installed in special flood hazard areas pose an elevated
risk to safety and substantial damage to property. Therefore:
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the special flood hazard
areas of the town shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid state
manufactured home installer’s license. The licensed manufactured home installer
shall use an installation design engineered to withstand flood hazards specific
to the particular home site. Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within the special flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance
with the following standards.
         (a)   The lowest floor, ductwork, and utilities including HVAC/heat
pump shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent
foundation, or shall use foundation elements of at least equivalent strength
engineered for use in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating
dry stacked block piers shall not be used in special flood hazard areas.
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of W.
Va. Code §§ 42-9-10.1, 42-9-10.2, and 42-9-10b, as authorized by W. Va. Code §
21-9-4 or the most recent revisions thereof. The anchoring shall be adequate to
resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, over-the-top and frame ties attached to
permanent foundation elements. Ground anchors may not be adequate to satisfy
flood specific anchoring requirements. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (d)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and/or perimeter wall skirts
of brick or block shall have openings to prevent collapse and damage to
supporting piers. The openings shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (2)   The licensed state manufactured home installer placing the unit
shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the manufactured
home has been installed to the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, appurtenant structures
shall be located out of the special flood hazard area or elevated to two feet
above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply.
         (a)   Use of the structure shall be restricted to parking or limited
storage.
         (b)   Structures shall be no more than 200 square feet in size and
valued at less than $5,000.
         (c)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
         (d)   Structures shall be located, oriented, and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
         (e)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
         (f)   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in the FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2 shall be used in the portions of the structure below BFE.
         (g)   Machinery, electric devices, or appliances, and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (h)   The venting requirements contained in division (A) above are
applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant stating
that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or attached garage shall
not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that the structure may be
subject to greater flood risk, and that higher flood insurance premiums may be
possible, and that a change in use may require full compliance with this
chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence of
this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature, a copy of all
new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to
transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain
Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (D)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (E)   Fill. The town officially recognizes the beneficial functions the
floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
Therefore:
      (1)   Placement of fill in the special flood hazard area is discouraged
and should be minimized;
      (2)   No fill shall be permitted in the floodway;
      (3)   Placement of fill in other areas of the special flood hazard area
shall be restricted to functional purposes such as elevating a structure. Fill
shall only be permitted in the same permit with the related structure or other
functional purpose. Placement of fill to dispose of soil from excavation or to
elevate yards, parking lots, or fields will not generally be considered a
functional purpose. The Floodplain Administrator may require the developer to
provide compensatory storage before permitting fill;
      (4)   No fill shall be permitted unless it meets the requirements of §
151.050. All fill placed in the special flood hazard area shall meet or exceed
the following standards.
         (a)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The town may require the applicant to
demonstrate through engineering reports that proposed fill would not adversely
affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
shall be undertaken only by registered professional engineers who shall certify
that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical
concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed
by the responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic
terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the like, shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
town. During permit review, the town, shall consider the following issues that
have the potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
            1.   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
            2.   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
            3.   Deflection of floodwaters onto adjacent existing structures;
            4.   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating
erosion problems; and
            5.   Other unique site conditions may be considered when
determining whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property
including, but not limited to, subsidence areas, Karst topography, stream
blockages, and steep topography adjacent to the channel.
         (b)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
         (c)   Filled sites shall be contoured to drain properly (avoid
ponding).
         (d)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance
to provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in division (F) below. For non-residential structures, fill
shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use. At grade access,
with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the building line shall be
provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a non-residential structure.
         (e)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on
site.
         (f)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary
stability and resistance to erosion, scouring, or settling. Fill compaction
standards shall be appropriate to proposed post fill use, and particular
attention is necessary when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
         (g)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (h)   Fill site and fill shall be protected from erosion.
            1.   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less will be
protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds, or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
            2.   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second
will be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
         (i)   All applicants placing fill in a special flood hazard area shall
obtain a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant shall convert the CLOMR to a letter of map revision
based on fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
         (j)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations, or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the Flood Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by
the Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
   (F)   Placement of structures and other development. All structures and
other development shall be constructed or placed on the lot so as to offer the
minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a
minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height of floodwater.
      (1)   Whenever possible, structures and other development shall be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow;
and
      (2)   So far as practicable, structures, and other development shall be
placed approximately on the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining
structures or development.
   (G)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All structures and other development including stream crossings
shall be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to
prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to
life and property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge
openings and other restricted sections of the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, swimming pools, and storage tanks
located at or below the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist
flotation.
   (H)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   (a)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank or 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall
be maintained in this area.
         (b)   Where natural vegetation does not exist along the watercourse
and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be given to
planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks, enhance flood
protection, and benefit aquatic resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this division (H).
      (3)   (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the
flood protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area.
         (b)   The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary and shall
be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front, and back lot line setbacks.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, shall be stored
below the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
      (3)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this chapter, material that resembles fill material
shall not be considered storage material for purposes of this division (I).
   (J)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed lo minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (K)   Drainage.
      (1)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazard.
      (2)   Adequate drainage paths are required around structures on slopes
within Zones AH and AO to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (L)   Backflow preventers. Back flow prevention valves should be used for
all enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.095 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Coordinator is hereby appointed as Floodplain
Administrator and is vested with the responsibility, authority, and means to
implement the commitments made in the agreement with the federal government to
administer and implement this local law by granting or denying floodplain
development permits in accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall also be responsible for submitting
all required reports to FEMA concerning the town’s participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.096 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS, SITE PLAN APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business, or corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any
development or the new construction, substantial improvement, repair of
substantial damage, or the placement or relocation of any structure (including
manufactured homes) within the town, unless a permit application and standard
site plan has been completed, and a permit has been obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   In addition, where land that is either partially or fully in the
special flood hazard area is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home
park or subdivision, or otherwise developed, a detailed site plan shall be
submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any
development.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.097 APPROVAL OF PERMITS, PLANS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code § 21-11-10.
   (D)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit,
shall require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is
duly licensed as a contractor under the provisions of the state code.
      (2)   If the applicant is not licensed, a written affidavit that such
person is not subject to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor, as defined
in W. Va. Code § 21-11-3, shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
placed in the permit file.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits for
new structures to the County E-911 addressing coordinator.
   (H)   The County E-911 addressing coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the County Floodplain
Administrator.
   (I)   The town shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file, in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.098 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for a permit and/or site plan approvals shall be made, in
writing, on the forms supplied by the town, and shall include all information
stipulated under §§
151.065 through
151.069.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.099 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit,
or any of the plans, specification, or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.100 PERMIT PLACARDS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit placard, which shall be
prominently displayed on the premises during the time construction is in
progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of its
issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.101 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed development shall begin within 180 days af1er the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All work on
the proposed development shall be completed within 18 months of permit
issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time extension is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time
extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
   (B)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria.
      (1)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months?
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health, or welfare, or injurious to other property?
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.102 INSPECTIONS, STOP-WORK ORDERS, VIOLATION NOTICE, REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   Upon learning of a potential violation of this chapter, the
Floodplain Administrator or staff shall investigate to determine whether a
violation has occurred.
      (2)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may
inspect any development covered by this chapter or previous ordinance to
determine whether any portion of the development has been altered to be in non-
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. The Floodplain Administrator shall immediately
issue, or cause to be issued, a stop-work order for any development found
ongoing without having obtained a floodplain determination or a permit.
Disregard of a stop-work order shall subject the violator to the penalties
described in §
151.999.
   (C)   Violation notice and revocations.
      (1)   (a)   When it appears after investigation that a permitted
development is non-compliant with the provisions of this law and/or the
conditions of the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the
violator by means of written violation notice.
         (b)   The violation notice shall specify the nature of the violation
and request that the violation be corrected within 15 days from the date
appearing on the notice.
      (2)   Failure to correct the violation within this time period shall be
cause for revocation of the permit and the governing body, or authorized
employee or agent, to:
         (a)   Seek an injunction in the circuit court of the county to
restrain the violator from continuing the violation, including, but not limited
to, requests for the removal of structures or land uses from the properly
involved; and
         (b)   Seek a misdemeanor conviction in magistrate court or circuit
court.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.103 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful lo occupy, or to permit
the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance
has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the building
or land conforms to the requirements of this local law. Occupying or using a
building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
151.999.
   (B)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to inspect and approve a
permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until the inspector
is in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by the local
Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development being
inspected conforms to the requirements of this local law. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
151.999.
   (C)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to install a permanent
utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the development conforms to the requirements of this local law. Installation of
utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
151.999.
   (D)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the local Administrator
upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of special flood
hazard.
   (E)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood-proofing
certificate, or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.104 FEES.
   (A)   A floodplain determination fee shall be assessed on all proposed
development. This shall be a flat fee approved by the town.
   (B)   Proposed development determined to be occurring in a special flood
hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be assessed an additional fee,
payable to the town based upon a set schedule approved by the town using the
estimated value of the proposed construction as determined by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (C)   (1)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing
the town for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development.
      (2)   Services include, but are not limited to, professional engineering
and surveying.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may require a deposit towards these
additional costs. Additional costs may include reimbursement for contracted
services.
   (D)   (1)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which
a permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit the fees above specified shall be doubled.
      (2)   The additional fee is intended to partially reimburse the county
for the additional cost of processing permits for work already underway.
      (3)   To more fully recover this cost the fees above shall be tripled for
every subsequent occurrence by the same person. Payment of the increased fee
shall not relieve any person from complying fully with the requirements of this
chapter in the execution of the work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
APPEALS
§ 151.115 APPEALS.
   (A)   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is the right of
that person to appeal to the Town Council, which shall be known as the Appeals
Board.
   (B)   (1)   Such appeal shall be filed with the Town Council, in writing,
within 30 days after notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal,
the Appeals Board shall set a time and place not less than ten nor more than 60
days for the purpose of hearing the appeal.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given to all
parties at which time they may appear and be heard. The determination by the
Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.116 APPEAL REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative substantial
damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement, or the freeboard
requirements, may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Board.
   (B)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter shall
adhere to the following criteria:
      (1)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the appeal would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of an appeal will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing locals laws or ordinance.
      (2)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
      (3)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a town official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a decision to allow construction of a structure
below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance;
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases risk
to life and property. Such notifications shall be maintained with a record of
all decisions as required in division (B)(4) above; and
      (5)   The Appeals Board shall:
         (a)   Maintain a record of all decisions including justification for
their issuance; and
         (b)   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      (6)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any construction,
development, use, or activity within any floodway area that would cause any
increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
GOVERNMENT ACTIONS
§ 151.130 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   (A)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets or exceeds the requirements for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (B)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards.
   (C)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the special flood hazard
area boundaries, base flood elevation, and location of floodway where
determined.
   (D)   (1)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), subpart (B), all
NFIP participating communities will notify the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the State Coordinating Office in writing whenever the
boundaries of the town have been modified by annexation or the town has
otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations for a particular area.
      (2)   In order that all Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent
the town’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the town suitable for reproduction,
clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for which the town has
assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority, shall be
included with the notification.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.131 PERMITS FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES.
   (A)   Unless specifically exempted by law, all public utilities and
municipal, county, state, and federal entities are required to comply with this
chapter and obtain all necessary permits.
   (B)   Any entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this chapter
shall provide a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption. In
addition, the entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of all relevant
legal documentation demonstrating the exemption.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or any
other authorized employee of the town, shall be unlawful and shall be referred
to the prosecuting attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute all such
violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the town of not
less than $50 or more than $500, plus cost of prosecution. In default of such
payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten days.
Each day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute
a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are
hereby reserved, including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or non-
compliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
with the chapter or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or non-compliance within a
reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered,
or relocated in non-compliance with this chapter may be declared by the Town
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
West Virginia Code Cite Code Section
West Virginia Code Cite  Code Section
2-2-3                    10.03
2-2-5                    10.06
2-2-8                    10.04
2-2-9                    10.04
2-2-10                   10.02;
                         10.03
2-2-11                   10.04
3-1-1 et seq.            Ch. 130
5-15-5                   74.08
6-2-1                    31.027
6-2-11                   31.027
6-9A                     30.04
Art. 6A                  130.095;
                         130.999
7-1-3kk                  151.001
7-1-3n                   151.001
7-1-3ss                  130.098
7-1-3U                   151.021
7-1-3v                   151.001
Ch. 8                    30.03
8-2-5a                   Ch. 130
8-10-1                   33.02
8-10-2                   33.02
8-11-1                   Ch. 10;
                         74.99
8-11-4                   Ch. 150
8-11-4(b)                Ch. 10
8-12-2(11)               Ch. 10
8-12-5(3)                Ch. 71
8-12-5(15)               Ch. 130
8-12-5(18)               Ch. 130
8-12-5(19)               Ch. 130
8-12-5(20)               Ch. 72
8-12-5(25)               Ch. 130
8-12-5(26)               91.20;
                         Ch. 130
8-12-5(30)               Ch. 130
8-12-5(43)               Ch. 130
8-12-5(45)               31.027
8-12-5(57)               Ch. 10;
                         Ch. 130
8-12-5b                  130.077
8-12-13                  Ch. 150
8-12-14                  151.001
8-13-4                   111.02;
                         111.45
8-13-7                   111.15
8-13-10                  Ch. 130
8-23-1 et seq.           32.20
8-34-1                   33.10
Ch. 8A                   32.40
8A-2-7                   32.40
8A-2-8 et seq.           32.40
8A-2-11                  32.40
8A-4-2                   151.001
8A-5-7                   151.001
8A-7-2                   151.001
Ch. 11                   130.092
Ch. 11, Art. 10          110.10
                         151.002;
11-3-3a                  151.065;
                         151.097
11-10-5d                 35.35;
                         110.23
11-12-86                 130.194
11-13A-1                 112.01
11-13A-3                 112.03
11-13A-4                 112.02
11-13A-5                 112.04
11-13A-10                112.05
                         111.02;
Art. 11-16               Ch. 130;
                         130.999
11-16-1 et seq.          130.090;
                         130.093
11-16-3                  72.035;
                         130.090
11-16-4                  111.03
11-16-5a                 130.104
11-16-12                 111.04
11-16-17                 111.02
11-16-18                 130.096;
                         130.999
11-16-19                 130.097;
                         130.999
Ch. 11, Art. 15          110.10
Ch. 11, Art. 15a         110.10
14-2A-4                  72.021
15-2-17 et seq.          Ch. 130
16-9-3                   Ch. 130
16-9A-2                  130.119
16-9A-3                  130.119;
                         130.999
16-9A-7                  130.119
16-9A-11                 130.120;
                         130.120
Ch. 17                   72.256;
                         72.258
17-10-7                  Ch. 130
17-11A-3                 74.28
Art. 17-24               70.21
17-24A-1                 73.07
17-24A-2                 73.07
Ch. 17A                  72.250;
                         72.253
17A-1-1                  130.002
17A-1-1 et seq.          74.29
17A-2-17b                72.255
17A-3-1                  72.250
17A-3-13                 72.251
17A-3-14(c)(6)           73.06
17A-3-15                 72.252
17A-8-4                  72.226
17A-8-6                  72.226
17A-9-2                  72.253
17A-9-3                  72.254
                         70.01;
17A-10-1                 72.252;
                         130.120
17A-10-1 et seq.         72.172
17A-11-1                 72.999
17B-1-1 et seq.          74.29
17B-2-1                  72.255
17B-2-1a                 72.256
17B-2-2                  72.256
17B-2-3a                 72.235
17B-2-9                  72.257
17B-4-1                  72.258
17B-4-3                  72.259
17B-4-3(b)               72.999
17B-4-3(d)               72.999
17B-4-4                  72.260
                         92.02;
Ch. 17C                  72.172;
                         72.301
17C-1-1 et seq.          92.02
17C-1-2                  70.01
17C-1-3                  70.01
17C-1-4                  70.01
17C-1-5                  70.01
17C-1-5a                 70.01
17C-1-6                  70.01
17C-1-7                  70.01
17C-1-8                  70.01
17C-1-12                 70.01
17C-1-13                 70.01
17C-1-15                 70.01
17C-1-16                 70.01
17C-1-17                 70.01
17C-1-21                 70.01
17C-1-22                 70.01
17C-1-24                 70.01
17C-1-25                 70.01
17C-1-26                 70.01
17C-1-29                 70.01
17C-1-30                 70.01
17C-1-31                 70.01
17C-1-32                 70.01
17C-1-33                 70.01
17C-1-35                 70.01
17C-1-36                 70.01
17C-1-37                 70.01
17C-1-38                 70.01
17C-1-39                 70.01
17C-1-40                 70.01
17C-1-41                 70.01
17C-1-42                 70.01
17C-1-43                 70.01
17C-1-44                 70.01
17C-1-45                 70.01
17C-1-46                 70.01
17C-1-47                 70.01
17C-1-48                 70.01
17C-1-49                 70.01
17C-1-50                 70.01
17C-1-51                 70.01
17C-1-52                 70.01
17C-1-53                 70.01
17C-1-54                 70.01
17C-1-55                 70.01
17C-1-60                 70.01
17C-1-62                 70.01
17C-1-64                 70.01
17C-1-65                 70.01
17C-1-66                 70.01
17C-1-69                 72.182
17C-1-70                 70.01
17C-2-1                  70.16
17C-2-3(c)               70.17
17C-2-4                  70.18
17C-2-5                  70.19
17C-2-6                  70.20
17C-2-7                  Ch. 70
17C-2-8                  Ch. 70;
                         Ch. 72
17C-2-8(4)               Ch. 72
17C-2-8(a)(1)            Ch. 73
17C-2-8(a)(2)            Ch. 71
17C-2-8(a)(3)            Ch. 71
17C-2-8(a)(6)            Ch. 72
17C-2-8(a)(7)            Ch. 72
17C-2-8(a)(8)            Ch. 74
17C-2-8(a)(9)            Ch. 72
17C-2-8(b)               Ch. 71
17C-2-8(c)               Ch. 71
17C-2-9                  70.22
17C-3-1                  71.22
17C-3-2                  Ch. 71
17C-3-3                  Ch. 71
17C-3-4                  71.15
17C-3-4a                 71.16
17C-3-5                  71.17
17C-3-6                  71.18
17C-3-7                  71.19
17C-3-8                  71.20
17C-3-9                  71.21
17C-4-1                  72.001;
                         72.999
17C-4-2                  72.002
17C-4-3                  72.003
17C-4-4                  72.004
17C-4-5                  72.005
17C-4-6                  72.006
17C-4-8                  72.007
17C-4-12                 72.008
17C-4-15                 Ch. 72
17C-5                    72.021
17C-5-1                  72.235
17C-5-2                  72.020;
                         72.999
                         72.008;
17C-5-2b                 72.020;
                         72.021;
                         72.999
17C-5-3                  72.022
17C-5-7a                 72.021
17C-5-11a                Ch. 72
17C-5A                   Ch. 72
17C-5A-1 et seq.         72.021
17C-5A-3                 72.020
                         72.008;
17C-5A-3a                72.021;
                         72.021;
                         72.999
17C-5D-2                 72.035
17C-5D-4                 72.037
                         72.036;
17C-5D-3                 72.036;
                         72.999
Art. 17C-6               72.050
                         72.050;
17C-6-1                  72.051;
                         72.999
17C-6-3                  Ch. 72
17C-6-3(a)               Ch. 72
17C-6-3a(a)              72.051
17C-6-4                  72.052
17C-6-4 et seq.          Ch. 72
17C-6-5                  72.052
17C-6-7                  Ch. 72;
                         72.054
17C-6-8                  72.999
17C-6-8(a)               72.053
                         72.055; 72.069;
17C-6-11                 72.172;
                         72.999
17C-7-1                  72.070
17C-7-2                  72.071
17C-7-3                  72.072
17C-7-4                  72.073
17C-7-5                  72.074
17C-7-6                  72.075
17C-7-7                  72.076
17C-7-8(b)               72.077
17C-7-8(c)               72.077
17C-7-9                  72.078
17C-7-10                 72.079
17C-7-11                 72.080
17C-7-12                 72.081
17C-8-1                  72.095
17C-8-2                  72.096
17C-8-3                  72.097
17C-8-4                  72.098
17C-8-5                  Ch. 72;
                         72.099
17C-8-6                  72.100
17C-8-7                  72.101
17C-8-8                  72.102
17C-8-9                  72.103
17C-8-10                 72.104
17C-9-1                  72.115
17C-9-2                  72.116
17C-9-3                  72.117
17C-9-4                  72.118
17C-9-5                  72.119
17C-9-6                  72.999
17C-10-1(a)              74.01
17C-10-2                 74.02
17C-10-3                 74.03
17C-10-4                 74.04
17C-10-5                 74.05
17C-10-6                 74.06
17C-10-7                 74.99
17C-10-8                 74.07
17C-10A-1                74.09
17C-10A-2                74.09;
                         74.99
17C-11-1                 74.20
17C-11-2                 74.21
17C-11-3                 74.22
17C-11-4                 74.23
17C-11-5                 74.24
17C-11-6                 74.25
17C-11-7                 74.26
17C-11-8                 74.29
17C-11A-1 et seq.        74.29
17C-11A-4                74.28
17C-11A-5                74.28
17C-11A-6                74.28
17C-11A-7                74.99
17C-12-1                 72.135
17C-12-2                 72.136
17C-12-3                 72.137;
                         72.999
17C-12-4                 72.138
17C-12-5                 72.139
17C-12-6                 72.140
17C-12-7                 72.141
17C-12-8                 72.141;
                         72.142
17C-12-17a               72.142
17C-13-1                 73.01
17C-13-2                 73.02
17C-13-3                 73.03
17C-13-4                 Ch. 73
17C-13-6                 73.06;
                         73.99
17C-14-2                 72.215
17C-14-4                 72.216
17C-14-5                 72.217
17C-14-6                 72.218
17C-14-9                 72.219
17C-14-9a                72.219;
                         72.999
17C-14-10                72.220
17C-14-11                71.01
17C-14-12                72.172
17C-14-13                73.04
17C-14-14                72.234
17C-14-15                72.235;
                         72.999
17C-14-15(h)(5)          72.235
17C-15                   70.21
17C-15-1                 72.155
17C-15-2                 72.156
17C-15-3                 72.157
17C-15-4                 72.158
17C-15-5                 72.159
17C-15-6                 72.999
17C-15-13                Ch. 72
17C-15-14                72.160
17C-15-15                72.161
17C-15-16                72.162
17C-15-17                72.163
17C-15-18                72.164
17C-15-19                72.165
17C-15-20                72.166
17C-15-21                72.167
17C-15-22                72.168
17C-15-23                72.169
17C-15-24                72.170
17C-15-25                72.171
17C-15-26                70.01;
                         72.172
17C-15-26(e)             72.142
17C-15-27                72.172
17C-15-31                72.173
17C-15-32                72.174
17C-15-33                72.175
17C-15-34                72.176
17C-15-35                72.177
17C-15-36                72.178
17C-15-36a               72.187;
                         72.999
17C-15-37                72.179
17C-15-39                Ch. 72
17C-15-41                72.180
17C-15-42                72.181
17C-15-44                72.182
17C-15-45                72.183
                         92.02;
17C-15-46                72.184;
                         72.999
17C-15-48                72.186
17C-15-49                72.188;
                         72.999
Art. 17C-16              72.185;
                         72.186
17C-16-9                 72.185
Art. 17C-17              72.200;
                         72.201
17C-17-2                 72.202
17C-17-2(b)              Ch. 72
17C-17-3                 72.201
17C-17-4                 72.201
17C-17-5                 72.201
17C-17-6                 72.203
17C-17-7                 72.204
17C-17-11b               72.201
17C-18-1                 70.99
Art. 17C-19              72.037
17C-19-3                 72.037;
                         72.280
Art. 17C-23              72.221
17C-24-1                 72.315
17C-24-2                 72.316
17D-1-1 et seq.          74.29
Art. 17D-2A              72.233
17D-2A-3                 72.003
17D-2A-9                 72.999
17D-4-2                  72.003
Art. 17E-1               Ch. 72;
                         72.275
17E-1-1 et seq.          72.235
17E-1-4                  72.275;
                         72.276
17E-1-5                  72.277
17E-1-6                  72.277
17E-1-7                  72.278
17E-1-8                  72.279
17E-1-9(d)               72.275
17E-1-14                 72.280;
                         72.999
17E-1-14(a)              72.281
17E-1-15                 72.280
17E-1-25                 72.999
Art. 17F-1               Ch. 72
17F-1-1                  72.296
17F-1-2                  72.297
17F-1-4                  72.298
17F-1-5                  72.299
17F-1-6                  72.300
17F-1-7                  72.301
17F-1-8                  72.999
17F-1-9                  72.295
18-2A-9                  Ch. 130
18A-5-1                  130.131
18A-5-1a                 130.131;
                         130.185
19-4-1 et seq.           35.30
19-7-8                   Ch. 130
Art. 19-9                Ch. 130
19-16a-7                 151.021
Art. 19-20               Ch. 130
Art. 19-20A              Ch. 130
19-20-13                 91.20
19-23-9                  Ch. 130
Art. 20-2                Ch. 130
20-15-l et seq.          92.02
21-11-3                  151.097
21-11-3(c)               151.021
21-11-10                 151.097
21A-6-3                  130.119
21-9-4                   151.080
25-1-11c                 130.187
Ch. 27                   130.188
Art. 27-5                130.095;
                         130.999
Art. 27-6A               130.095
27-11-17                 130.095
28-2-3.9(b)              151.066
28-4                     151.066
Art. 29-3                130.194
29-3-5                   Ch. 150
29-3-5b                  Ch. 150;
                         150.15
29-3-23                  130.194
29-3-24                  130.194
29-22A-1 et seq.         130.098
29-25-1 et seq.          130.098
Ch. 29A                  130.096
Ch. 30, Art. 13          151.021
Ch. 30, Art. 13 et seq.  151.021
30-6-4                   72.221
                         73.06;
30-29-1                  130.004;
                         130.137;
                         130.187
30-29-4                  72.021
31-1-1 et seq.           32.18
31-2-13                  Ch. 130
Art. 31-2A               130.170
31-2A-6                  130.999
38-11-5                  130.159
42-9-10.1                151.080
42-9-10.2                151.080
42-9-10b                 151.080
48-27-502                130.185
49-1-4                   Ch. 130;
                         130.102
49-4-701                 130.999
49-4-701 et seq.         130.189
49-5-1(b)                Ch. 130
49-5-11                  130.102
49-7-7 et seq.           Ch. 130
50-3-2                   72.021
50-3-2a                  130.999
55-7A-2                  130.117
Art. 55-9                Ch. 130
59-2-1(c)                74.99
                         111.30;
Ch. 60                   130.092;
                         130.093;
                         130.095
60-1-1 et seq.           130.077;
                         130.095
60-1-3a                  130.104
                         72.035;
60-1-5                   130.077;
                         130.090;
                         130.139
60-1-5a                  130.100
60-3-22                  130.093
60-3-22a                 130.094;
                         130.999
60-3A-l et seq.          111.45
60-3A-12(e)              111.45
60-3A-24                 130.102;
                         130.999
60-3A-25a                130.100
60-4-3b                  130.103
Art. 60-5                Ch. 130
Art. 60-6                130.092
60-6-2                   130.103
60-6-5                   130.091
60-6-7                   130.092
60-6-8                   130.093
60-6-9                   130.095;
                         130.999
60-6-18                  Ch. 130
Art. 60-7                130.096
60-7                     111.15;
                         111.16
                         35.30;
60-7-1 et seq.           130.093;
                         130.096;
                         130.098
60-7-2                   111.15
60-7-7                   111.15
60-7-12                  130.098;
                         130.999
60-7-12a                 130.099;
                         130.999
Art. 60-8                130.100
                         130.093;
60-8-1 et seq.           130.096;
                         130.103
60-8-3                   130.090
60-8-6                   130.100
60-8-20                  130.100
60-8-20a                 130.101;
                         130.999
Art. 60-8A               130.103
60-8A-1                  130.103
60-8A-2                  130.103
                         Ch. 130;
Ch. 60A                  130.093;
                         130.137
60A-1-101                72.008
60A-1-101(d)             130.020
60A-1-101(e)             130.185
60A-1-101(m)             130.185
60A-2-204                130.999
60A-2-205                130.999
60A-2-206                130.999
60A-4-401                130.138
Ch. 61                   Ch. 130
61-1-9                   130.004;
                         130.999
Art. 61-2                Ch. 130
61-2-9                   130.135
61-2-9(a) ? 61 - 2 - 9 A 130.188
61-2-9(b)                130.188
61-2-10(b)               130.137
61-2-15                  130.136
61-2-26                  130.118
61-2-28                  130.188
Art. 61-3                Ch. 130
61-3-13                  130.152
61-3-18                  130.153
61-3-30                  130.154
61-3-40                  130.159
61-3-43                  130.171
61-3-44                  130.155
61-3-45                  130.155
61-3-53                  130.158
61-3A-1                  130.150
61-3A-2                  130.150
61-3A-3                  130.150
61-3A-4                  130.150
61-3A-5                  130.150;
                         130.999
61-3A-6                  130.150
61-3B-1                  130.151
61-3B-2                  130.999
Art. 61-5                Ch. 130
61-5-14                  130.001;
                         130.999
                         130.002;
61-5-17                  130.195;
                         130.999
61-5-33                  130.999
Art. 61-5A               Ch. 130
Art. 61-6                Ch. 130
61-6-1b                  130.035;
                         130.999
61-6-14a                 130.036;
                         130.196
61-6-17                  130.003;
                         130.999
61-6-20                  130.007
61-6-22                  130.037
Art. 61-7                Ch. 130
61-7-1                   130.999
61-7-2                   130.185
61-7-3                   130.186;
                         130.195
61-7-4                   130.187
61-7-5                   31.027
61-7-6                   130.187
61-7-6a                  130.187
61-7-7                   130.188;
                         130.999
61-7-8                   130.189
61-7-9                   130.190
61-7-10                  130.191;
                         130.999
61-7-11                  130.192
61-7-11a                 130.185
61-7A-5                  130.188
61-8-5                   130.070
61-8-6                   130.071
61-8-7                   130.072
61-8-8                   130.073
61-8-9                   130.075
61-8-11                  130.139
61-8-16                  130.074
61-8-19                  130.020;
                         130.999
61-8-24                  130.116
61-8-29                  130.039;
                         130.196
61-8D-10                 130.115;
                         130.999
Art. 61-10               Ch. 130
61-10-1                  130.050
61-10-2                  130.051
61-10-3                  130.052
61-10-4                  130.053
61-10-5                  130.054
61-10-6                  130.055
61-10-9                  130.056
61-10-10                 130.057
61-10-11                 130.058
61-10-15                 Ch. 130
61-11-8                  130.005
61-11A-4                 130.999
61-11A-5                 130.115
62-1-5(a)                130.006
62-5-2                   72.021
62-5-7                   72.021
62-5-10                  72.021
62-11A-1 et seq.         72.020
Art. 62-11B              72.999
62-11B-1 et seq.         72.020
62-11B-5                 72.020
62-12-14                 130.187
62-12-26                 130.039
                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1-101      30.01
1-102      30.02
1-103      30.03
1-201      30.15
1-202      30.16
1-301      31.025
1-302      31.026
1-303      31.027
1-401      34.01
1-402      34.02
1-403      34.03
1-404      34.04
1-405      34.05
1-406      34.06
1-407      34.07
1-408      34.08
1-409      34.99
1-501      33.01
1-502      33.02
1-503      33.03
1-504      33.04
1-505      33.05
1-506      33.06
1-507      33.07
1-508      33.08
1-509      33.09
1-510      33.10
1-511      33.11
1-512      33.12
1-513      33.13
1-514      33.99
1-601      31.075
1-602      31.076
1-603      31.077
1-604      31.078
1-605      31.079
1-801      31.060
1-901      31.090
1-902      31.091
1-903      31.092
1-904      31.093
1-905      31.094
1-906      31.095
1-907      31.999
2-202      111.02
2-203      111.03
2-204      111.04
2-301      111.15
2-302      111.16
2-303      111.17
2-304      111.18
3-101      91.01
3-102      91.02
3-103      91.03
3-104      91.04
3-107      91.05
3-108      91.99
3-201      91.20
3-202      91.21
3-203      91.22
3-204      91.23
3-205      91.24
3-207      91.99
4-201      112.01
4-202      112.02
4-203      112.03
4-204      112.04
4-205      112.05
5-201      34.20
5-202      34.21
5-203      34.22
5-204      34.23
5-205      34.24
5-206      34.25
5-207      34.26
           
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        3-15-1994   30.04
-        7-18-1994   31.048
-        7-18-1994   34.09
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         31.009
-        - -         35.02
-        7-23-1981   111.01
-        1-23-1987   31.010;
                     31.999
-        2-2-1987    31.010;
                     31.999
                     31.001 -
-        6-16-1993   31.008;
                     32.01
                     90.04;
93-33    11-16-1993  90.08;
                     90.99
-        6-13-1994   150.01;
                     150.99
97-11    6-3-1997    90.07
-        10-16-2000  35.02
                     90.01 -
-        10-9-2001   90.08;
                     90.99
                     92.01;
-        12-11-2001  92.02;
                     92.99
                     51.001 -
                     51.003;
                     51.015 -
                     51.021;
                     51.035;
                     51.036;
-        5-7-2007    51.050 -
                     51.054;
                     51.065 -
                     51.071;
                     51.085 -
                     51.089;
                     51.999
                     110.01 -
                     110.24;
                     110.99;
-        5-7-2007    111.30 
                     111.32;
                     111.45;
                     111.99
-        8-13-2007   32.15 -
                     32.21
-        10-1-2007   35.01
-        9-14-2009   50.01 -
                     50.03
                     151.001 -
                     151.006;
                     151.020;
                     151.021;
                     151.035 -
                     151.039;
                     151.050 -
                     151.054;
-        8-13-2012   151.065 
                     151.069;
                     151.080;
                     151.095 -
                     151.104;
                     151.115;
                     151.116;
                     151.130;
                     151.131
                     113.01 -
-        7-8-2013    113.04;
                     113.99
2208     11-20-2014  130.193
-        3-9-2015    70.02
-        - -2017     35.01
-        8-12-2024   90.20 - 90.25;
                     90.99
-        10-21-2024  32.35 -
                     32.42
-        4-15-2025   31.040 -
                     31.047
                    
 
