GLENVILLE, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
ACT
of the
LEGISLATURE OF WEST VIRGINIA
in relation to the
TOWN OF GLENVILLE
AN ACT to incorporate the Town of Glenville, in the County of Gilmer.
(Passed February 13, 1871)
Be it enacted by the Legislature of West Virginia:
   1.   That the Town of Glenville in the County of Gilmer, as the same has
heretofore been laid off into lots, streets, and alleys embraced in the
following boundary, to-wit:
   Commencing on the bank of the Little Kanawha River immediately above the
mouth of Sycamore Run; thence with the road up said Sycamore Run to the
division line of lands owned by Harrison Cain and Milton Norris; thence with
Norris’ line to Thomas H. Brannon’s line; and thence with his line to the road,
to line of lands owned by Robert Linn’s heirs; thence with said line to their
upper corner at the forks of the road; thence southward to the Little Kanawha
River; and thence down the same with the meanders thereof to the place of
beginning, shall be, and the same is hereby made a town corporate, and body
politic, by the name of the “Town of Glenville,” and as such shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal, plead and be impleaded, and purchase,
lease, and hold real and personal property, necessary to the purposes of said
corporation.
CHARTER
   2.   The municipal authorities of said town shall consist of a Mayor,
Recorder, and five Councilmen, who together shall form a Common Council.
   3.   All corporate powers of the said town shall be exercised by the said
Council, or under their authority, except where otherwise provided.
   4.   There shall be a Town Sergeant, a Treasurer, and Assessor appointed by
the Council, to continue in office at its, pleasure, and perform the duties
respectively as hereinafter provided, or may be required by the Council.
   5.   The duties of the office of Recorder, Treasurer, and Assessor may be
discharged by the same person, or otherwise, as the Council may from time to
time determine.
   6.   The Mayor, Recorder, and Councilmen shall be elected by the citizens of
said town who may be entitled to vote under this Act, and (except when elected
to fill vacancies) for the term of one year, and until their successors shall
have been elected and qualified, and shall be residents of said town and
entitled to vote for members of its Common Council.
   7.   The first election held under this Act shall be held on the first
Saturday in April, 1870, at the Court House in said town, under the supervision
of the present election officers of the Township of Glenville. The persons
conducting the first election shall grant certificates to the person elected,
which shall be entered upon the records, with the ordinances of said Council,
and their terms of office shall commence so soon thereafter as a quorum may be
qualified, who shall remain in office until the 31st day of December, 1870, and
thereafter until their successors are elected and qualified to act. And on the
first Saturday in November, 1870, and annually thereafter, there shall be an
election held on the same day in each and every year, at such place and under
such supervision, rules, and regulations as the Council in said town may
prescribe, whose term of office shall commence on the first day of January next
after their election.
   8.   All person residents in said town for six months prior to said
election, and entitled to vote for county and township officers shall be
entitled to vote for Mayor, Recorder, and Councilmen.
   9.   The Assessor of said town shall annually, at least ten days before any
election make out a list, in alphabetical order, of the qualified voters of
said town under this Act, and shall deliver the same to the inspectors, or
proper officers of the election, before sunrise on the day of the next
succeeding, or any special election; and shall be liable to all the fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, for placing the name of any person on said list who
is not a qualified voter, or for failing or refusing to place the name of any
person thereon who is a qualified voter under this Act, that Township
Registrars are liable to, which shall be enforced and recovered before the same
tribunals wherein the same are imposed, enforced, and recovered against
Township Registrars.
   10.   When a vacancy shall occur from any cause in the office of Mayor,
Recorder, or in the Council, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment by the
Council.
   11.   At all elections the vote shall be by ballot, and when two or more
persons for the same office at any election shall receive an equal number of
votes, the person or persons so conducting such an election shall decide which
of said persons shall be returned elected. And all contested elections shall be
heard and determined by the Council for the time being.
   12.   The Mayor, Recorder, Councilmen, Sergeant, Treasurer, and Assessor
shall each, before entering upon the duties of his office, and within ten days
after being furnished with a certificate of his election, take the several
oaths prescribed for county and township officers. The Recorder shall take such
oath or affirmation before a justice or other officer authorized to administer
oaths, and thereupon he shall administer the oaths aforesaid to the other
officers and Councilmen. Certificates of said oaths or affirmations shall be
filed with the Recorder, and the act of their administration be entered on the
journal of the proceedings of the Council.
   13.   If any one elected Mayor, Recorder, or Councilmen shall have not been
eligible, or shall fail or refuse to take the oath or affirmation required
under this Act, within the ten days aforesaid, such office shall be declared
vacant, and the vacancy filled as hereinbefore provided; but in all cases from
among the citizens of the town eligible to such office or position under this
Act.
   14.   The Council shall be presided over at its meetings by the Mayor, or in
his absence by one of the Councilmen, selected by a majority of the Council
present. And a majority of the Council shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum to do business.
   15.   The Council shall cause to be kept in a journal, an accurate record of
all its proceedings, by-laws, acts, and orders, which shall be fully indexed
and open to the inspection of the votes of the town.
   16.   The proceedings of the last meeting shall be read to the Council,
corrected when necessary, and signed by the person presiding for the time
being. Upon the call of any member the ayes and noes on any question shall be
called and recorded in the journal. The Mayor, though not voting as a member of
the Council, in cases of a tie shall have the casting vote.
   17.   The Council so constituted shall have power within said town to lay
off, open, and curb, and pave streets, alleys, walks, and gutters for the
public use, and to alter, improve, and light the same, and to have them kept in
good order, and free from obstructions on or over them; to regulate the width
of sidewalks and streets, and to order the sidewalks, footways, and gutters to
be curbed, paved, and kept in good order, free and clean by the owners or
occupants of the adjacent property; to lay off public grounds, and provide,
contract for, and take care of public buildings, proper to the town; to prevent
injury or annoyance to the public or individuals from anything dangerous,
offensive, or unwholesome; to abate or cause to be abated anything which, in
the opinion of a majority of the whole Council, shall be a nuisance; to
regulate the keeping of gunpowder and other combustibles; to provide for the
burial of the dead, and for this purpose may purchase and hold the necessary
land, or cemetery, near or convenient to said town, and provide for its
improvement and security; to provide for the regular buildings of houses or
other structures in or for said town; for the making of division fences; and to
provide for shade and ornamental trees, and against danger or damage from fires
or contagious disease; to provide a revenue for the town, and to appropriate
the same, and to provide for the annual assessment of taxable persons or
property of the town; to adopt rules for the transaction of business and the
government regulations of its own body; and protect the property and preserve
peace and good order therein; to keep a town guard, appoint and order out a
patrol for the town when deemed necessary; to appoint such officers as they may
deem proper, including a Sergeant, Assessor, Treasurer, and Street
Commissioner; to define their powers, prescribe their duties, fix their term of
service and compensation, require and take from them bounds with such
securities and in such penalty as the Council may determine, conditioned for
the true and faithful discharge of their duties, and remove them at pleasure;
(all bonds to be made payable to the town by its corporate name); to erect, or
authorize, or prohibit the erection of gas works or water works in or near the
town; to prevent injuries to or pollution of the same; for all of which
purposes named in this clause, except that of taxation, the Council shall have
jurisdiction for one mile beyond the borough; to regulate and provide for
weighing and measuring of hay, coal, and other articles sold or for sale in
said town; and to regulate the transportation thereof through the streets; and
generally to do such things as the Council shall deem necessary for the
interest, prosperity, peace, and good order of said town.
   18.   To carry into effect these enumerated powers, and all others conferred
upon said town, or its Council, expressly, or by implication in this or any
other acts of the Legislature, the Council shall have power to adopt and
enforce all needful orders, by-laws, and ordinances, not contrary to the
Constitution and laws of this state; and to prescribe, impose, and enforce
reasonable fines and penalties, including imprisonment for a term not exceeding
thirty days, under the judgment and order of the Mayor of said town, or in case
of his absence or disability, by one of the Councilmen, designated by a
majority of the Councilmen of said town. The Council with the consent of the
Supervisors of Gilmer County, entered of record may have the right to use the
jail of said county, for any purpose necessary to the administration of its
affairs.
   19.   The annual levy ordered by the Council may be upon all persons within
said town over the age of twenty one years, dogs, hogs, and other animals, and
on all real estate within said town, which is not exempt from state taxation,
and all other subjects in said town as may at any time be assessed with state
taxes; provided that the tax does not exceed seventy-five cents on every one
hundred dollars value of personal and real estate, or two dollars per head on
each taxable person.
   20.   The taxes in said town shall be annually laid in the months of May or
June, or as soon thereafter as may be, and shall be paid and accounted for by
the Sergeant, at the same time that county levies are due and payable.
   21.   When anything for which a state license is required, is to be done
within said town, the town may require a town license to be had for doing the
same, and may impose a tax thereon for the use of the town. And the Board of
Supervisors shall not grant a license to any person or persons within said
corporation, nor within two miles beyond the corporate limits of said town, for
the purpose of selling ardent spirits, unless the party or parties applying for
such a license shall first produce to the said Board of Supervisors, a
certificate from said Town Council, showing its approval of the application for
such license, and the Council may in any case require from the persons so
licensed a bond with securities, in such penalty and with such conditions as it
may determine. But nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the
Council of said town to grant a license to sell at retail, ardent spirits, or
any drink of like nature.
   22.   The Sergeant shall collect the town taxes, fines, levies, and
licenses, and after thirty days from the time he may receive the books of the
Assessor of said town, may distrain and sell therefor, in the manner as the
Sheriff may for state taxes, and shall in all respects have the same power as
the Sheriff to enforce the payment and collection thereof, and shall be liable
to the same penalties and forfeitures as a Sheriff is liable to. And shall
within the corporate limits of the town, exercise all the duties that a
Constable can legally exercise in regard to the collection of claims, executing
and levying process, and shall be entitled to the same or like fees therefor,
and he and his securities shall be liable to all the fines, penalties, and
forfeitures that a Constable is legally liable to, for any failure or
dereliction in said office, to be recovered in the same manner, and before the
same tribunals that the same are now recovered against Constables.
   23.   There shall be a lien on all real estate within said town, for the
town taxes assessed thereon from the commencement of the year for which they
were assessed; and the Council may order and require the same to be sold, or
rented by the Sergeant at public auction, for the arrears with interest therein
from the 15th day of December, in the year in which such taxes were assessed,
and such per centum in addition thereto for charges and expenses therefor as
they may determine; and may regulate the terms upon and time within which the
same may be recovered. No such sale, or renting shall be ordered until such
realty be returned delinquent, and the sale shall be after twenty days notice,
posted at the courthouse door, and the post office in said town.
   24.   The law now in force in this state in relation to the making and
returning delinquent lists of persons and property, and real estate for the
non-payment of taxes thereon, and the selling of real estate on account of the
non-payment of the taxes due thereon by Sheriffs, shall be held applicable to
the making and returning of delinquent lists and the sales made by the Sergeant
of said town under this Act; except that the Sergeant shall not be required to
return any lists to the Board of Supervisors of said county, but shall return
such delinquent lists to the Council of said town.
   25.   A list of all sales made for delinquent town taxes on real estate,
shall be returned by the officer to the Council of said town, and it shall be
the duty of said Council to certify the said lists to the Recorder of said
county, and the same may be redeemed in the same manner, as sales for
delinquent state taxes, and the person purchasing the same, his heirs or
assigns, shall upon the failure to redeem, be entitled to deeds from the
Recorder of said county, in the same manner, and under the same regulations as
deeds are obtained upon sales for delinquent state taxes, and such estate shall
stand vested in the grantee in such deed as was vested in the party assessed
with the taxes (on account whereof the sale was made) at the commencement of
the year for which such taxes were assessed.
   26.   The Council may prohibit any theatrical or other performance, show, or
other exhibition within said town, it may deem injurious to the morals or good
order of said town.
   27.   The said town, within the corporate limits aforesaid shall constitute
a separate road and poor district of the said County of Gilmer, and shall be
free from all taxes for county or township purposes outside of said
corporation; and the taxable persons and property therein shall be exempt from
all expense and liability for the construction or repair of roads and bridges
outside the corporate limits of said town. And the Street Commissioner shall
discharge the duties of a surveyor of roads in said precinct under the
direction of the Council.
   28.   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town; shall take
care that the bylaws, ordinances, and orders of the Council are faithfully
executed; shall be ex-officio a conservator and justice in the town; and shall
within the same, exercise all the powers and duties vested injustices, in civil
and criminal causes, and shall be entitled to the same fees as justices in such
cases. But before he shall exercise the duties of justices in civil cases he
shall execute bond with securities in the same manner and penalty as are
required of justices, and shall be liable in like manner; shall have control of
the police of the town, and may appoint special police officers; shall see that
peace and good order are observed, and that persons and property are protected
in the town; shall have power to issue executions for all fines and costs
imposed by him; or may require the immediate payment thereof, and in default of
such payment may commit the party in default to the jail of the county, until
the fine and costs are paid; but the term of imprisonment in such cases shall
not exceed thirty days. He shall from time to time recommend to the Council
such measures as he may deem needful to the welfare of the town, and shall
receive a compensation for his services, to be fixed by the Council, and paid
out of the Treasury, as other debts and liabilities of said town are paid,
which shall not be increased or diminished, for the term for which he was
elected.
   29.   The Recorder shall keep a journal of the proceedings of the Council,
and have charge of and preserve the records of the town; and shall receive a
compensation for his services, to be fixed by the Council, and paid out of the
Treasury as other debts and liabilities of said town are paid, which shall not
be increased or diminished for the term for which he was elected.
   30.   All monies belonging to said town, shall be paid over to the
Treasurer, who shall pay out the same upon the order of the Mayor,
countersigned by the Recorder, having been first allowed by ordinance or
resolution of the Council entered of record and not otherwise. And for any
default or liability upon the Treasurer or Sergeant, the Council in the
corporate name of said town, may on motion, after ten days’ notice obtain
judgment before the Circuit Court of said county, on account thereof, against
them and their securities, respectively, or any or either of them, or their
heirs or legal representatives.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
10.02   General definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
10.07   Conflicting provisions
   
10.08   Separability
   
10.09   Ordinance procedures
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, chapters, subchapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Codified Ordinances of Glenville, West Virginia, 2025, for which designation
“codified ordinances” may be substituted. Code, chapter, subchapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
codified ordinances.
   (B)   All references to codes, chapters, subchapters, and sections are to
such components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any
component code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic
Code.” Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by
the number, such as “§
10.01.”
§ 10.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Glenville, West Virginia.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the City of Glenville, West Virginia.
   COUNTY. Gilmer County, West Virginia.
   LAND or LANDS and REAL ESTATE or REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements,
and hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein except chattel
interests.
   LAWS OF THE STATE. Includes the Constitution of the state and the
Constitution of the United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance
thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   MUNICIPALITY or CITY. The City of Glenville, West Virginia.
   OFFENSE. Includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture, or
punishment is imposed by law.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER. Includes corporations, societies, associations, and
partnerships, and other similar legal business organizations.
   PERSONAL ESTATE or PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes goods, chattels, real and
personal, money, credits, investments, and the evidences thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PRECEDING, SUCCEEDING or FOLLOWING. As used in reference to any section or
sections of a chapter or subchapter, means next preceding, next succeeding, or
next following that in which such reference is made.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and building.
   PROPERTY or ESTATE. Embraces both real and personal estate.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia or any department, division, commission,
board, educational, or other institution of the state.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises alone or with others.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.
      (1)   Includes any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether
by printing, engraving, writing, or otherwise.
      (2)   But when the signature of any person is required, it must be in his
or her own proper handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved, or
acknowledged.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (C)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, or if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday it shall also be excluded.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-3)
   (D)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (E)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-9)
   (B)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-8)
   (C)   The repeal by any provision of the codified ordinances of an ordinance
validating previous acts, contracts, or transactions shall not affect the
validity of such acts, contracts, or transactions, but the same shall remain as
valid as if there had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-11)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group of sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (C)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters in the series are deemed to be included.
§ 10.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W. Va. Code § 2-2-5)
§ 10.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, subchapters, or
sections of the codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the
provisions bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void, or ineffective for any cause does
not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part
thereof.
§ 10.09 ORDINANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It shall not be necessary, except where otherwise provided in this
section, for the governing body of the municipality to publish in a newspaper
any proposed ordinance prior to the adoption thereof, or any enacted ordinance
subsequent to the adoption thereof, and any and all ordinances shall be adopted
in accordance with the following requirements, except where different or
additional requirements are specified in other provisions of this section, in
which event such other different or additional requirements shall be
applicable.
      (1)   A proposed ordinance shall be read by title at not less than two
meetings of the governing body with at least one week intervening between each
meeting, unless a member of the governing body demands that the ordinance be
read in full at one or both meetings. If such demand is made, the ordinance
shall be read in full as demanded.
      (2)   (a)   At least five days before the meeting at which a proposed
ordinance, the principal object of which is the raising of revenue for the
municipality, is to be finally adopted, the governing body shall cause notice
of the proposed adoption of said proposed ordinance to be published as a Class
I-O legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-
3-1, and the publication area for such publication shall be the municipality.
The notice shall state the subject matter and general title or titles of such
proposed ordinance, the date, time, and place of the proposed final vote on
adoption, and the place or places within the municipality where such proposed
ordinance may be inspected by the public.
         (b)   A reasonable number of copies of the proposed ordinance shall be
kept at such place or places and be made available for public inspection. Said
notice shall also advise that interested parties may appear at the meeting and
be heard with respect to the proposed ordinance.
      (3)   A proposed ordinance shall not be materially amended at the same
meeting at which finally adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The governing body may adopt, by ordinance, building codes,
housing codes, plumbing codes, sanitary codes, electrical codes, fire
prevention codes, or any other technical codes dealing with general public
health, safety, or welfare, or a combination of the same, or a comprehensive
code of ordinances, in the manner prescribed in this division (B).
      (2)   Before any such ordinance shall be adopted, the code shall be
either printed or typewritten and shall be presented in pamphlet form to the
governing body of the municipality at a regular meeting, and copies of such
code shall be made available for public inspection. The ordinance adopting such
code shall not set out said code in full, but shall merely identify the same.
The vote on adoption of said ordinance shall be the same as on any other
ordinance.
      (3)   After adoption of the ordinance, such code or codes shall be
certified by the Mayor and shall be filed as a permanent record in the office
of the Recorder, who shall not be required to transcribe and record the same in
the ordinance book as other ordinances are transcribed and recorded.
      (4)   Consistent with the provisions of division (A) above, it shall not
be necessary that any such ordinance, either as proposed or after adoption, be
published in any newspaper, and it shall not be necessary that the code itself
be so published, but before final adoption of any such proposed ordinance,
notice of the propose adoption of such ordinance, and code shall be given by
publication as herein provided for ordinances, the principal object of which is
the raising of revenue for the municipality, which notice shall also state
where, within the municipality, the code or codes will be available for public
inspection.
   (C)   The governing body may enact an ordinance without complying with the
rules prescribed in this section only:
      (1)   In the case of a pressing public emergency making procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this section dangerous to public health,
safety, or morals, and by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elected
to the governing body; or
      (2)   When otherwise provided in this code. The nature of any such
emergency shall be set out in full in the Council minute book and the ordinance
certificate of enactment. Copies of all adopted ordinances shall be attached to
the Council minute book on the date of adoption.
(Ord. 500-12, passed 3-5-1982)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances, or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Voting precincts
   
30.02   Who may vote
   
30.03   Election laws
   
30.04   Elections; candidates; reimbursements
Mayor; Mayor’s Court
   
30.15   Mayor’s court
   
30.16   Mayor
   
30.17   Maintenance of docket
   
30.18   Issuance of arrest warrants
   
30.19   Issuance of summons
   
30.20   Issuance of subpoenas
   
30.21   Trial, disposition of cases
   
30.22   Appearance bonds authorized
   
30.23   Imposition, remission of fines, costs
City Council
   
30.35   Voting for Council members
   
30.36   Time, date, place of regularly scheduled meetings
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Ward No. 1. To contain and consist of the part of the original
corporation of the city which lies within Voting Precinct No. 23.
   (B)   Ward No. 2. To contain and consist of the part of the original
corporation of the city which lies within Voting Precinct No. 16 and that part
of the present corporation known as Collins Addition, which was voted into said
corporation on June 25, 1946, and bounded and described on page 253 in the
official minute books of the city.
   (C)   Ward No. 3. To contain and consist of the part of the present
corporation known as Northview and Hays City Addition, which were voted into
said corporation on June 25, 1946, and bounded and described on page 253 in the
official minute books of the city.
   (D)   Ward No. 4. To contain and consist of the part of the present
corporation lying south of the Little Kanawha River and known as Brooklyn
Addition and south of the city, and bounded by said river and the line between
said Brooklyn addition and Camden Flats Addition, as described on page 12 in
the official minute book of the city, and by the southern limits of the city as
described on page 253 in said official minute book, and all of the area
commonly known as Riverview and being the same areas as was annexed into the
city.
   (E)   Ward No. 5. To contain and consist of the part of the Camden Flats
Addition to the city which was voted into the corporate limits of said city on
May 24, 1949, and bounded and described on page 12 in the official minute book
of said city.
(Ord. 500-02, passed - -; Ord. 200-07, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 30.02 WHO MAY VOTE.
   (A)   Only persons who are bona fide residents of the city and are
registered to vote as provided by law shall be entitled to vote in any
municipal election, and the provisions of the “Permanent Registration Law,”
being W. Va. Code § 8-5-13, as last amended, so far as applicable to
municipalities, is hereby adopted to govern any election in the city.
   (B)   The municipal registration records for the county precincts which are
within the city, as they are kept and maintained by the County Commission,
shall be the official registration of voters for any municipal election, and
only those persons so registered shall be eligible to vote.
(Ord. 500-01, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 30.03 ELECTION LAWS.
   (A)   The official “Election Laws of the State of West Virginia Code,” 1931,
as amended, or may be amended by the legislature of the state, are hereby
adopted and enacted and are incorporated in and made part of the ordinances of
the city as fully and to the same extent and having the same effect as if they
were set out herein verbatim in full.
   (B)   A copy of the Election Laws Code, certified by the Mayor, and updated
to include the most recent revisions of the legislature of the state, shall be
kept in the office of the Recorder, and shall be available for inspection by
any citizen of the city or by any person charged with a violation arising
therefrom.
   (C)   Henceforth, and according to the W. Va. Code Ch. 8, the regular
election of officers of the city shall be held on the first Tuesday in May in
1983 and in the appropriate year in each two-year period thereafter, unless and
until said date shall be changed by law.
   (D)   Any candidate who is eligible to hold and seeks to hold an office
shall file such certificate on a form prescribed by law, and such form shall be
signed by the candidate and said certificate shall be filed with the Recorder
of the city along with the prescribed filing fee, not earlier than the last
Monday in February next preceding the election day, and not later than the last
Saturday of March next preceding the election day, and must be received before
12:00 a.m., Eastern Standard Time, of that day or, if mailed, shall be
postmarked before that hour.
   (E)   The filing fee for any office shall be 1% of the annual salary.
   (F)   Only persons who are bona fide residents of the city and are
registered to vote, as provided by law, shall be entitled to vote in any
municipal election, and the provisions of the “Permanent Registration Law,”
being W. Va. Code § 8-5-13, as last amended, so far as applicable to
municipalities, will govern any election in the city.
   (G)   The municipal registration records for the county precincts which are
within the city, as they are kept and maintained by the County Commission,
shall be the official registration of voters for any municipal election, and
only those persons so registered shall be eligible to vote.
(Ord. 500-07, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 30.04 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATES; REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   All future municipal elections held within the city shall be held
subject to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 3-2-3, 3-2-4, 3-2-5, and 3-2-19,
relating to the registration of voters and qualifications for registration. The
registration record prepared for use in municipal elections shall be obtained
from the office of the Clerk of the county court and used in municipal
elections to determine the qualification of all persons to vote in such
election.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who is eligible to hold office as Mayor, Recorder, or
member of the City Council, who desires to become a candidate for such office
to be voted upon at any municipal election, shall, not less than 30 days prior
to the date of such election, file with the Recorder of the city, a certificate
declaring himself or herself a candidate for such office, which certificate
shall be substantially as follows:
 
“I ______________, hereby certify that I am a candidate for ___________ (Mayor,
Recorder, or City Council), and desire my name to be printed on the ballot to be
voted at the election to be held in the City of Glenville on the first Tuesday in
June, 20__; that I am a legally qualified voted of said City of Glenville; that I
am eligible to hold said office; and that I am a candidate for said office in
good faith.
________________”
 
      (2)   Any person failing to file said notice shall be ineligible to be
placed on the ballot to be voted upon at such election.
   (C)   All reimbursements to elected or appointed officials must be approved
by Council and will be effective immediately.
(Ord. 500-08, passed - -; Ord. 500-09, passed - -; Res. passed 5-7-2007)
MAYOR; MAYOR’S COURT
§ 30.15 MAYOR’S COURT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a court which shall be called the Mayor’s
Court. The Mayor of the city shall preside over said court.
   (B)   Any defendant who is dissatisfied with any judgment of the Mayor’s
Court against him or her, within the ten days next after such judgment is
rendered, Sundays and legal holidays excepted, may appeal to the next term of
the circuit court upon posting an appeal bond as set forth in division (C)
below. For state law as to appeals from judgment of a Mayor, W. Va. Code § 8-
34-1 will apply as may be amended.
   (C)   (1)   An appearance bond in any case before the Mayor’s Court shall be
in such amount as the Mayor shall prescribe either in person or by phone or by
a typed list designating the amounts for the various offenses, and shall be
conditioned that the defendant shall appear before the Mayor’s Court at the
stated time and date. The appearance bond will be forfeited in full to the city
if anyone posting such bond does not appear on the time and date specified.
      (2)   An appeal bond in any case shall be in the sum of $500 and shall be
conditioned that if the circuit court shall find against the appealer, the fine
and all costs of the trial and appeal shall be promptly paid by the defendant
and/or his or her sureties. An appearance or appeal bond in any case may be
made in the form of a cash deposit or by any corporate surety company
authorized to do business in the state or by two private persons who
individually own real property located within the county. No other type bond
shall be acceptable.
   (D)   A record shall be kept as required by any State Auditor or by the City
Council. This record will be open to the public for inspection at any time.
   (E)   The Mayor may punish for contempt of court a person guilty of any of
the following acts, and in no other case:
      (1)   Contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the Mayor while engaged in
the trial of a case or in any other judicial proceeding;
      (2)   Any breach of the peace, willful disturbance, or indecent,
indecorous, profane or blasphemous language, or by any distracting conduct
whatsoever in the presence of the Mayor while so engaged, or so near as to
obstruct or interrupt the proceedings;
      (3)   Violence or threats of violence to the Mayor, or any police
officer, witness, or party going to, attending, or returning from any judicial
proceeding before the court with respect to anything done or to be done in the
course of such proceeding;
      (4)   Misbehavior of any police officer acting in his or her official
capacity with respect to any action or judicial proceeding had or pending
before the court, or any process, judgment, order, or notice therein;
      (5)   Willful resistance of an order by or in the presence of the Mayor,
by an officer of the court, witness, party, or other person to any lawful
process or order of the court; and/or
      (6)   Resistance or disobedience by a police or other officer, witness,
party, or other person to any lawful process, or judgment rendered or order of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
§ 30.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be a conservator of the peace within the city and
insofar as any ordinance of the city is concerned, shall have and shall
exercise all such powers and duties in criminal cases as may lawfully exercise
under ordinances of the city and as amended, and shall, within said city, have
and exercise all of the criminal powers and perform all duties fixed by said
ordinances, except that he or she shall have no jurisdiction in civil cases,
and shall have such further powers and perform such other duties as may be from
time to time prescribed or conferred by ordinance of the city and in no other
way.
   (B)   The Mayor shall, before entering upon the duties of office, be sworn
in by the Recorder as prescribed by City Charter, and execute bond as required.
   (C)   The Mayor is to handle the judicial matters within the municipality
and shall preside over the Mayor’s Court. The Mayor and Mayor’s Court shall
have jurisdiction, exercise the powers and perform the duties specified for
Mayor’s Court, and for judges in W. Va. Code §§ 8-10-1 and 8-10-2, as amended.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the jurisdiction to hear and try all misdemeanor
criminal cases arising out of a person or persons violating any city ordinance,
providing the violation did occur within the city limits. Any warrant or other
process issued by him or her may be executed at any place within the county in
which the municipality is so located; shall have power to issue arrest warrants
in all criminal matters, to issued warrants for search and seizure, and, except
in cases involving capital offenses, to set and admit to bail and set
appearance, bond, and to issued subpoenas, summonses, or other processes
pertaining to the office, and to issue executions for all fines and costs
imposed by him or her, and may commit any person found in violation of a city
ordinance to jail.
   (D)   Office hours are set at the discretion of the Mayor. No trials will be
conducted on Sundays or on holidays, but a hearing may be held for the purpose
of setting an appearance bond on said days.
   (E)   The Mayor may appoint a Clerk of the court to take appearance bond.
The Clerk of the court or Secretary will type all warrants or reports, during
their regular working hours. In addition to the Clerk of the court, the ranking
city police officer on duty can take appearance bond.
   (F)   The city will provide, furnish, and maintain chambers for the Mayor.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
§ 30.17 MAINTENANCE OF DOCKET.
   The Mayor shall keep a complete docket of all matters coming before him or
her in his or her judicial capacity. The docket shall include for each
defendant such information as his or her name, warrant, citation, or summons
number, alleged offense, disposition, fines, and costs imposed and collected,
receipt number, whether committed to jail, and all other information that may
be relevant.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
§ 30.18 ISSUANCE OF ARREST WARRANTS.
   (A)   No warrant of arrest shall be issued by the Mayor or anyone, except
upon probable cause supported by oath or affirmation; but upon the verbal
complaint of any person of the violation of any of the ordinances of the city
aforesaid, the person may, if he or she thinks there be good reason wherefor,
issue a warrant to have said alleged offender brought before the Mayor to hear
the evidence as to said alleged offense, and the Mayor shall render judgment
accordingly.
   (B)   On any judgment rendered in pursuance of such warrant as mentioned in
this section, execution may be issued as for other offenses.
   (C)   In addition to the Mayor, the City Recorder and the Chief of Police,
and in the absence from the station house of the Chief of Police, the Captains
and Lieutenants of police, each have the authority to administer oaths to
complainants and the Mayor and Recorder in the Mayor’s absence, shall have the
authority as herein set forth to issue warrants for all offenses committed
against city ordinances and their amendments hereinafter adopted, and also to
accept appearance bond.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-14-3
§ 30.19 ISSUANCE OF SUMMONS.
   When a complaint of an alleged ordinance violation is made to the Mayor or
such other official as specified in §
30.18, the Mayor may, in his or her discretion, in lieu of issuing an arrest
warrant, issue a summons, ordering the alleged offender to personally appear
before the Mayor’s Court at a time specified therein to answer to the charges
against him or her. The summons shall contain a brief description of the
offense charged but need not be set out verbatim the provisions of the
ordinance alleged to have been violated. Upon the failure of any person to
appear before the Mayor’s Court as commanded in a summons lawfully served on
him or her, the cause may be proceeded with ex parte, and the judgment of the
court shall be valid and binding subject to the defendant’s right of appeal.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
§ 30.20 ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENAS.
   The Mayor, or those officials as specified in §
30.18, may subpoena as witnesses all persons whose testimony he or she believes
will be relevant and material to matters coming before the court, and it shall
be unlawful for any person, lawfully served with such a subpoena, to fail or
neglect to comply therewith. The Mayor may declare any such person in contempt
of court as defined in § 30.27.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.21 TRIAL, DISPOSITION OF CASES.
   (A)   Every person charged with violating a municipal ordinance shall be
entitled to an immediate trial and disposition of his or her case, provided it
is not on a Sunday or holiday and also provided it is during the set hours of
this subchapter, or during the time Mayor’s Court is in session or the Mayor is
reasonably available.
   (B)   However, the provisions of this section shall not apply when the
alleged offender, by reason of drunkenness or other incapacity, is not in a
proper condition or is not able to appear before the court.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
§ 30.22 APPEARANCE BONDS AUTHORIZED.
   When the Mayor is not available or when an alleged offender requests and/or
has reasonable grounds for a delay in the trial of his or her case, he or she
may, in lieu of going to or remaining in jail pending disposition of his or her
case, be allowed to post an appearance bond with anyone so designated to accept
the same by this subchapter, provided such alleged offender is not drunk or
otherwise in need of protective custody.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
§ 30.23 IMPOSITION, REMISSION OF FINES, COSTS.
   All fines, costs, or other monies collected and due the city shall be turned
over to the City Treasurer by the end of every month. The city shall be
entitled to, and the Mayor may tax, in all cases appearing before him or her
involving any violations of city ordinances, the same costs and in the same
amount as a magistrate may tax.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.35 VOTING FOR COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   There shall be elected at the regular election to be held in the month
of June, 1951, and each second year thereafter for a term of two years, one
Council member to represent each of the five wards in the said city.
   (B)   The Council member shall be a resident of the ward from which elected.
(Ord. 500-04, passed - -)
§ 30.36 TIME, DATE, PLACE OF REGULARLY SCHEDULED MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the Council of the city shall be held at the Mayor’s
office located at 20 North Court Street, Glenville WV, Section 2.
   (B)   The regularly scheduled meetings of the Council shall be held on the
first Monday of every month at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time, and also at such times
as may be fixed by special order of adjournment. In the event that the first
Monday of the month falls on or near a holiday officially recognized by the
Council the meeting shall be rescheduled by a majority vote of Council at the
regular meeting immediately preceding the recognized holiday.
   (C)   The agenda of all regularly scheduled meetings and the purpose of all
special meetings shall be posted on the wall of the Mayor’s office for public
viewing, as well as being posted on the outside of the door of the Mayor’s
office, at least 48 hours prior to the beginning time of the meeting that it
represents.
   (D)   Meetings of the Council may be called by either the Mayor or three
members of the Council, without notice, as provided in division (C) above, in
the event of an emergency situation requiring immediate official action.
Whenever special or emergency meetings of the Council are called, the same
shall be done by a warrant directed to the sergeant, signed by the Mayor or
three members of the Council, stating distinctly the matters of business for
which such meeting is called, the sergeant shall give notice to every member
then in the city, and shall return the said warrant to the Recorder, who shall
enter the same in the Council journal.
(Ord. 500-05, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon a violation of anything in §
30.15(E), the Mayor may, if necessary, issue a warrant of arrest for such
person, who shall be given an opportunity to be heard. In the event such person
is adjudged guilty of contempt, the person may be fined not more than $50 for
the first offense. For a second offense occurring during the same proceeding,
the person may be fined not more than $100. For the third or subsequent offense
occurring during the same proceeding, the person may be fined not more than
$100, or imprisoned in jail for not more than ten days, or both fined and
imprisoned.
(Ord. 500-10, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Utility Commission
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Operation
   
31.03   Powers, privileges
   
31.04   Members
UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created as an official board of the city called the Utility
Commission.
(Ord. 600-01, passed 2-17-1978)
§ 31.02 OPERATION.
   The Utility Commission of the city shall operate, maintain, improve,
construct, rehabilitate, and extend said utility in the city and surrounding
areas.
(Ord. 600-01, passed 2-17-1978)
§ 31.03 POWERS, PRIVILEGES.
   The Utility Commission shall have and may exercise any and all powers,
privileges, and authority which have been granted or conferred, or which may
hereafter be granted or conferred, upon similar municipal boards and
commissions by the legislature of the state, including, but not limited to, all
of the powers, privileges, and authority granted and conferred under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 8-12-1 through 8-12-15. The Utility Commission of
the city may additionally exercise such other powers, privileges, and authority
as are granted and conferred by the Council of the city.
(Ord. 600-01, passed 2-17-1978)
§ 31.04 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Utility Commission of the city shall consist of three appointed
members, who shall have full voice and vote in the actions of the Commission,
and the Mayor of the city who shall serve as an ex officio member with no vote.
The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Council without regard
to political party affiliation. Each appointed member shall serve a term as
hereinafter specified.
   (B)   One member of the Commission shall be appointed to a term of three
years duration. Another member shall be appointed to a term of two years
duration. At the end of each term the Council shall be expected to appoint an
individual to fill any vacancy for a term of three years. Members of the
Commission are not limited as to the total amount of terms they may serve and
may be re-appointed. The Mayor shall serve in his or her ex officio capacity as
long as he or she is Mayor of the city.
   (C)   In the event of death, resignation, inability, or unwillingness to
serve of any member except the Mayor, the Council shall appoint a successor to
such member to serve for his or her unexpired term.
   (D)   A member of the Commission may be removed from the Commission before
his or her term has expired. In this case, the Council must list the reason it
desires to remove the member, the member must have an opportunity to answer any
charges against him or her in public, and the vote of the Council to remove
must be by at least a two-thirds majority.
   (E)   Members of the Commission shall serve at no pay until such time as the
city utility becomes self-supporting at which time they shall be paid for their
services.
   (F)   The Commission shall be expected to be responsible for its own
internal organizational structure. One member shall be named Chairperson by the
Commission and shall be expected to act in that capacity as a representative of
the Commission.
(Ord. 600-01, passed 2-17-1978)
CHAPTER 32: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
Taxation
   
32.01   Intoxicating liquors, wine purchases
   
32.02   License tax
   
32.03   Municipal sales, use tax
   
32.04   Head tax; dogs
Finances
   
32.20   Service fee for maintenance of streets
TAXATION
§ 32.01 INTOXICATING LIQUORS, WINE PURCHASES.
   The city’s tax on intoxicating liquors and wine purchases, and any and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
(Ord. 400-03, passed 10-3-1983)
§ 32.02 LICENSE TAX.
   The city’s license tax, and any and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 400-05, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 32.03 MUNICIPAL SALES, USE TAX.
   The city’s sales and use tax, and any and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 400-09, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 32.04 HEAD TAX; DOGS.
   The city’s head tax on dogs, and any and all amendments thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 400-08, passed 6-17-1981)
FINANCES
§ 32.20 SERVICE FEE FOR MAINTENANCE OF STREETS.
   (A)   Promulgation of rules and regulations. The Mayor is hereby empowered
to promulgate and enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the
administration and enforcement of this section, which said rules and
regulations shall include, but not be limited to, the manner in which the
municipal fee herein imposed will be collected.
   (B)   Imposition and rate of fee. There is hereby levied and imposed upon
the respective owners, as of July 1 of each fiscal year, of all residential,
commercial, industrial, governmental, or other buildings and structures of
every kind and nature and regardless of the types of construction a municipal
service fee in the amount of $0.0229 per square foot of floor space of such
residential, commercial, industrial, governmental, or other buildings or
structures. The proceeds of the municipal service fee hereby levied and imposed
shall be paid to the Mayor by the owners of such buildings and shall be used to
defray a portion of the cost of installation, continuance, maintenance, or
improvement of police protection services, parks and recreational facilities,
street lighting services, street maintenance services, and street improvement
services with the city. The Mayor shall be charged with the duty of mailing a
statement on at least an annual basis to the last known address of each
individual, partnership, corporation, or other person or business to be charged
with the municipal service fee hereby levied and imposed, but failure to mail
any such statement for annual fees shall not be grounds to avoid payment
thereof.
   (C)   Register of owners, structures, and municipal service fee payable. The
Mayor shall make or cause to be made a complete register of the name and
addresses of all the owners of buildings or structures situate within the city,
fixing and listing on the register the square footage of such building or
structure and the amount of the municipal service fee to be paid, as calculated
upon the rate set out in division (B) above.
   (D)   Levy period; payment dates; discounts; interest on delinquency. This
section shall be effective and the municipal service fee shall be levied for
the yearly period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of each fiscal
year. The municipal service fee hereby imposed and levied shall be collected.
The municipal service fee for the year shall be due and payable on or before
November 1, or 60 days after the statement date, whichever is later. Failure to
pay the fee by November 1, or 60 days after the statement date, whichever is
later, shall be deemed a delinquency and interest shall accrue on the unpaid
balance owed at the rate of 10% per annum until paid.
   (E)   Estimated revenue from municipal service fee to be included in budget.
The estimated revenue to be derived from the municipal service fee imposed in
this section shall be included in the budget of the city, which said budget is
submitted to the Commissioner of Tax and Revenue of the state as required by
law.
(Ord. 400-01, passed 3-7-1991)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any individual, partnership, corporation, or other person or business
charged with the municipal service fee hereby levied and imposed in §
32.20, who fails to pay the fee by November 1, or 60 days after the statement
date, whichever is later, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction, the violator shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 400-01, passed 3-7-1991)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Inventory of vehicles impounded by police
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 INVENTORY OF VEHICLES IMPOUNDED BY POLICE.
   (A)   When a person is driving a vehicle and that person is arrested for
some offense that would require the person’s vehicle to be impounded, all city
police officers will make a complete and thorough inventory of all of the areas
of the vehicle, including the glove compartment and the trunk whether they be
locked or unlocked. This inventory will be taken as soon as possible whenever
an arrested person is taken out of the vehicle. Said vehicle will then be towed
or driven to a place for storage, be it a lot, garage, or place so operated by
the city or the county, or a private individual in business for that purpose,
and said vehicle will be held at the owner’s or driver’s expense until
arrangements and release can be made of said vehicle. The owner or driver will
also be responsible for all expenses incurred in case the vehicle must be towed
for any reason. The owner or driver being responsible for storage costs and or
towing expenses also applies to a vehicle being removed to a place of storage
because of illegal parking or other ordinance violations which allows such
action to be taken.
   (B)   No inventory will be taken when a citation or ticket is written for a
traffic violation or parking violation. An officer may take into possession any
illegal or unlawful items or contraband or items which are evidence of a crime
or an unlawful nature that the officer observes in “plain view” while giving a
citation or ticket. The officer can then charge the driver of the vehicle and
also the owner, if he or she be in the vehicle that contains illegal items
observed in “plain view.” Since the giving of a traffic citation or parking
violation is not an arrest, it affords the officer no right to search the
vehicle unless a search warrant is issued prior to the searching of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 100-13, passed 3-3-1980)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Prohibited activities during the West Virginia State Folk Festival
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES DURING THE WEST VIRGINIA STATE FOLK FESTIVAL.
   The following activities are prohibited on all streets, sidewalks, or other
properties owned by, or otherwise legally controlled by, the city which are
utilized, in any manner, for Folk Festival purposes.
   (A)   Riding bicycles;
   (B)   Riding skateboards;
   (C)   Riding scooters;
   (D)   Roller blading or skating (including “in-line” skates); and/or
   (E)   Any other means of recreational transportation.
(Ord. 200-18, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any individual found to be in violation of §
34.01 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100, and
confiscation of his or her equipment to be returned at the conclusion of said
festival.
(Ord. 200-18, passed 6-3-2002)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Rules, regulations
Rates and Charges
   
50.15   Trailer, mobile home courts
   
50.16   Multiple occupancies
   
50.17   Within, outside city limits
   
50.18   Minimum monthly charges
   
50.19   Water meters
   
50.20   Connection fees
   
50.21   Availability of service
   
50.22   Return check charge
   
50.23   Leak adjustment rate
   
50.24   Delayed payment; discontinuance of service
   
50.25   Public service district rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 RULES, REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations for the government of water utilities, adopted by
the Public Service Commission of the state, and now in effect, and all
amendments thereto and modifications thereof hereafter made by said Commission,
are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15 TRAILER, MOBILE HOME COURTS.
   Trailer and mobile home courts shall be provided with a master meter or
separate meters, but no bill shall be rendered for less than the following:
$17.67 per month per unit for water, multiplied by the number of units situated
on the lot or court site at the time the meter is read or use the charge based
on the actual meter readings, whichever is greater. This shall apply to house
trailers, mobile homes, and campers if said camper is connected to water
service. House trailers, or mobile or immobile homes, located on sites other
than a park or court shall be billed in the same manner as any other family or
business unit.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.16 MULTIPLE OCCUPANCIES.
   (A)   An apartment building, duplex house, or any other multiple occupancy
building, or office building, each unit, family, office, or business unit shall
be required to pay not less than the minimum monthly charge herein established
for a five-eighths-inch by three-fourths-inch meter for water. These are $17.67
for each unit per month for water.
   (B)   To determine the charge for multiple occupancy the number of units in
the building at the time the meter is read is to be multiplied by the minimum
charge and compared to the use the charge based on the actual meter reading,
whichever charge is greater shall be used. Motels and hotels shall not be
subject to the multiple occupancy charge but will pay according to the size of
meter installed.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.17 WITHIN, OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The following shall be the water rates within and outside of the city
limits.
 
First 0-3,000 gallons used per month     $5.89 per 1,000 gallons
Next 3,001-6,000 gallons used per month  $3.97 per 1,000 gallons
Next 6,001-10,000 gallons used per month $3.10 per 1,000 gallons
Over 10,001 gallons used per month       $2.85 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.18 MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGES.
   No water bill shall be rendered for less than $17.67 per month for each
unit, family, office, or business, or any apartment building, duplex house, or
office building.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.19 WATER METERS.
   No bill shall be rendered for less than the following amounts according to
the size of the meter installed, to-wit:
5/8-inch, 3/4-inch meter, or less $17.67 per month
3/4-inch meter                    $26.51 per month
1-inch meter                      $44.18 per month
1 1/4-inch meter                  $64.50 per month
1 1/2-inch meter                  $88.35 per month
2-inch meter                      $141.36 per month
4-inch meter                      $441.75 per month
6-inch meter                      $883.50 per month
8-inch meter                      $1,413.60 per month
 
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.20 CONNECTION FEES.
   The connection fee to be charged to all new services shall be the following,
or the actual expense, whichever is greater. After disconnection of service, at
the customer’s request, or non-payment of a bill, a feel of $20 shall be
charged to reconnect the service.
 
For setting a 5/8-inch by 3/4-inch or 3/4-inch meter $300
For setting a 1-inch meter                           $350
For setting a 1 1/2-inch meter                       $500
For setting a 2-inch meter                           $600
For setting a 4-inch meter                           $1,280
For setting a 6-inch meter                           $1,942
For setting an 8-inch meter                          $3,800
 
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.21 AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available for private fire protection service.
   (B)   Rates. Where connections, hydrants, sprinklers, and the like, on
private property are maintained by the consumer, the following rates shall
apply:
 
2-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose  $3 per month
connections
3-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose  $3.40 per month
connections
4-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose  $4.20 per month
connections
6-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose  $13.80 per month
connections
8-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose  $18.50 per month
connections
10-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose $21 per month
connections
12-inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers, and/or hose $29.80 per month
connections
 
   (C)   Public fire protection service. The following shall be the rates for
public fire protection service.
 
Each public fire hydrant in use $6.67 per month
 
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.22 RETURN CHECK CHARGE.
   If a check received is returned by a financial institution for any reason,
the financial institution’s charge to the city utility shall be the charge to
the customer for such returned check, but such charge to the customer shall not
exceed $15.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.23 LEAK ADJUSTMENT RATE.
   A rate of $1.36 per 1,000 gallons is to be used when the customer’s bill
reflects an unusual consumption which can be attributed to eligible leakage on
the customer’s side of the meter. This rate is to be used to calculate
consumption above the customer’s historical average usage.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.24 DELAYED PAYMENT; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   All water bills are payable when rendered. On all accounts not
paid in full within 20 days of billing, a 10% penalty will be added to the net
amount shown.
      (2)   This delayed penalty payment is not interest and is only to be
collected once for each bill where it is appropriate.
   (B)   (1)   Service shall be disconnected only after all of the applicable
rules and regulations established by the Public Service Commission of the state
have been followed.
      (2)   Service shall not be restored until all amounts in arrears,
including accrued penalties and a reconnection fee of $20, have been paid.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 50.25 PUBLIC SERVICE DISTRICTS RATES.
   (A)   Bulk water rates.
 
First 0-1,000 gallons used per month $3.43 per 1,000 gallons
Over 1,000 gallons used per month    $3.43 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Connection fees. The connection fee to be charged to all new services
shall be as follows, or the actual expense, whichever is greater.
For setting a 5/8-inch by 3/4-inch or 3/4-inch meter $300
For setting a 1-inch meter                           $350
For setting a 1 1/2-inch meter                       $500
For setting a 2-inch meter                           $600
For setting a 4-inch meter                           $1,280
For setting a 6-inch meter                           $1,942
For setting an 8-inch meter                          $3,800
For setting an 10-inch meter                         $4,700
 
   (C)   Delayed payment penalty on water bills involving public service
districts. All water bills are payable when rendered. On all accounts not paid
in full within 20 days of billing, a 10% penalty will be added to the net
amount shown. This delayed penalty payment is not interest and is only to be
collected once for each bill where it is appropriate.
(Ord. 600-07, passed 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Prohibiting discharge of rain water, melted snow, ice into public
sewers
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PROHIBITING DISCHARGE OF RAIN WATER, MELTED SNOW, ICE INTO PUBLIC
SEWERS.
   Is shall be unlawful for any property owner to connect or have connected
with a public sewer any spouting, tile, or drain of any description for the
purpose of discharging rain water or melted snow and ice into any such sewer.
(Ord. 600-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)    Upon conviction of every such offense, as stated in §
51.01, any person shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $20 and costs,
and shall be subject to a further fine of $5 for each and every 48 hours that
such spouting, tile, or drain shall remain so connected, after having been
notified to disconnect the same.
(Ord. 600-02, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
52.01   Prohibiting dumping, disposal of trash, garbage, rubbish
   
52.02   Trash containers
   
52.03   Trash collection vehicles
   
52.04   Trash disposal
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 PROHIBITING DUMPING, DISPOSAL OF TRASH, GARBAGE, RUBBISH.
   It being the consensus of opinion of the Council that the dumping and
disposal of trash, garbage, and rubbish within the limits of the city is hereby
prohibited. Any person, individual, partnership, or corporation employing any
person or persons who dump or dispose of any trash, garbage, or rubbish with
the limits of said city shall be equally guilty with the person or persons so
dumping or disposing of said trash, garbage, and rubbish, and punished as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 200-16, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 TRASH CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized to uncover, ruffle,
rifle, pilfer, dig into, turn over, or in any manner disturb or use any refuse
container belonging to another, or wilfully damage any refuse container
belonging to another. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use
of public refuse containers for their intended purpose.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 TRASH COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   The collection of refuse shall be by means of vehicles with beds constructed
of impervious materials which are easily cleanable and so constructed that
there will be no leakage of liquids draining from the refuse onto the streets,
roads, and alleys. Furthermore, all refuse collection vehicles shall utilize
closed beds or such coverings as will effectively prevent the scattering of
refuse over the streets or alleys. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow
the scattering of refuse over the streets or alleys, whether it be from a
covered or uncovered vehicle.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 TRASH DISPOSAL.
   The disposal of refuse, trash, lumber, tree limbs, dirt, brick, building
material of any kind, automobiles, or parts of automobiles, in any quantity by
any person in any place, public or private, other than at the site or sites
designated for refuse disposal by the governing body, is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, individual, partnership, or corporation found guilty of
violating §
52.01 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $5 in the
discretion of the Mayor.
(Ord. 200-16, passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   VEHICULAR OPERATION
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Adoption of road system
   70.03   Court fees
Enforcement, Impounding
   
70.15   Authority of Police, Fire Departments officials
   
70.16   Application to vehicles upon streets, highways; exceptions
   
70.17   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
70.18   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
70.19   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.20   Application to persons riding animals, driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.21   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
70.22   Rights of owners of real property
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of abandoned vehicles, see W. Va. Code § 17-24A-5
   Power of local authorities, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8, Ch. 17C
   Uniform application of state traffic law, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-7
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, hospital police
department, state, county, or municipal agency and such privately owned
ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers, flag car services, vehicles providing road
service to disabled vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation,
postal service vehicles, snow removal equipment, Class A vehicles of
firefighters, Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services, Class A
vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads, emergency management, and
operations vehicles operated by airports and designated pursuant to W. Va. Code
§ 17C-15-26 and all other EMERGENCY VEHICLES as are designated by the agency
responsible for the operation and control of these persons or organizations.
Class A vehicles are as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1. Agency authorization
and emergency equipment are provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26. Agencies
responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle permits may
promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of permits for
emergency vehicles. In the event that emergency medical technician’s (“EMTs”)
or paramedics on the scene of an emergency are unable to drive an ambulance in
the course of administering patient care, firefighters on the scene shall be
permitted to drive an ambulance; provided, that the Fire Department with which
the firefighters are associated or members and the emergency medical services
provider that owns the ambulance have previously entered into a memorandum of
understanding or other agreement authorizing such action, and the firefighter
driving the ambulance has completed an emergency vehicle operations course
(“EVOC”) otherwise required by the state code or legislative rule promulgated
thereunder.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-6)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use
for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which
occupy at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on
both sides of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
   CROSSWALK. Includes:
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
   ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
      (1)   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the term ELECTRIC BICYCLE or
E-BIKE means a two- or three-wheeled vehicle with fully operable pedals and an
electric motor of fewer than 750 watts.
         (b)   There is a “three-class system” to differentiate between the
models and top-assisted speeds of ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
            1.   CLASS 1. Electric bicycles that have a motor that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide
assistance when the E-BIKE reaches 20 mph.
            2.   CLASS 2. Electric bicycles that have a motor that may be used
exclusively to propel the bicycle, and that is not capable of providing
assistance when the E-BIKE reaches 20 mph.
            3.   CLASS 3. Electric bicycles that have a motor that provides
assistance only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide
assistance when the E-BIKE reaches 28 mph.
      (2)   THROTTLE refers to a device that controls the flow of power to the
electric motor on an electric bicycle for the purpose of propelling the
electric bicycle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-70)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE or EPAMD. A self-balancing, two
non-tandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closedcup test device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by
an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the
event such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-42)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
this traffic code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion, and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower, but excludes electric bicycles as defined in this
section. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or rotor
displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of chambers
in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling the
vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road surface,
and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly or
automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator after
the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas, or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
   PASSENGER VAN.
      (1)   Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business, or
other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of children
under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use, taxicab,
bus, or school bus.
      (2)   PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to, vehicles used by
daycare centers, after-school centers, and nursery schools; provided, that the
term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor vehicle which is
utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to medical
facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment, and which loads and
unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading or
unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard to the
manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official, or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development, or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a street or highway includes two or more separate
roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway
separately, but not to all such roadways collectively.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation, or athletic events while
attending school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or highway between the curb lines or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING.
      (1)   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
      (2)   STOPPING, or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or
standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control sign or signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway, or portion
thereof, at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same,
and when stop signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, and device not
inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or non-motorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF ROAD SYSTEM.
   (A)   A road system for the city is hereby adopted.
   (B)   The maps shall be placed in city hall and shall bear the signature of
the Mayor and Recorder and the seal of the city, and shall thereafter be the
official city road system maps.
   (C)   The exclusion of any road, street, or alley from this road system
shall not constitute and in no way be interpreted to constitute a formal
abandonment by the city of any such excluded road, street, or alley.
   (D)   Should anyone desire to have a road, street, or alley, which is
excluded from the road system by this section, to be included within said road
system by this section, it must be accomplished by formal resolution passed by
the Council and attached to the ordinance codified in this section as an
amendment.
(Ord. 100-21, passed - -2002)
§ 70.03 COURT FEES.
   (A)   Chapters 17, 17A, 17B, l7C, and 17D, West Virginia Motor Vehicle Laws,
of the Official Code of the State of West Virginia, as amended or may be
amended by the legislature of the State of West Virginia, are hereby adopted
and enacted and are incorporated in and made part of the ordinances of the city
as fully and to the same extent and having the same effect as if they were set
out herein verbatim and in toto and in full.
   (B)   (1)   The definition of “streets” and “highways” in the Official Sate
Code is hereby changed to include the roads, streets, and alleys of the city.
Such code shall be applicable throughout the city limits and shall govern and
control for the purposes therein set forth. The code adopted by this ordinance
shall be known and may be cited as the Motor Vehicles Code.
      (2)   The term “authorized emergency vehicle” shall mean city police
vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department, and such public or private
ambulances and other emergency vehicles as may be designated by the Chief of
Police as authorized emergency vehicles.
      (3)   The definitions of “Sheriff”, “Deputy”, “State Police”, “Police
Officer” or “Department of Public Safety”, or the like shall be changed to
include city police officers.
      (4)   The definitions of “county” or “state” shall be changed to include
City of Glenville.
   (C)   (1)   The Municipal Judge shall have the same jurisdiction as
magistrates for all misdemeanors as cited in the Motor Vehicle Code and shall
have the same jurisdiction for all misdemeanor cases arising from the
enforcement of the Motor Vehicle Code as he or she has for other municipal
ordinances and, upon a conviction, can apply these penalties as listed in the
Motor Vehicle Code. In addition, the total of $60 for moving violations or $20
for non-moving violations will be assessed as court costs in all cases, except
illegal parking coming in to Municipal Court.
      (2)   On every conviction of a municipal ordinance, with the exception of
illegal parking, an $8 Crime Victim’s Compensation Fund and a $2 Law
Enforcement Training Fund will be assessed and included in court costs and
remitted to the State Treasurer each month. This report and money will be
remitted on or by the tenth of each month for the previous month.
   (D)   A copy of the Motor Vehicle Code, certified by the Mayor, and updated
to include the most recent revision of the Legislature of the State of West
Virginia, shall be kept in the office of the Municipal Judge and the Police
Chief, and shall be available for inspection by any citizen of the city or by
an person charged with a violation arising therefrom.
   (E)   The city meter maid or any city police officer may write “parking
tickets” and if the meter maid or any city police officer writes a “parking
ticket” instead of a “citation” for any illegal parking violation of the Motor
Vehicle Code involving the unlawful parking of a vehicle, the maximum fine they
may impose is hereby set at $10. This constitutes a “minor traffic violation”
and does not constitute an arrest.
   (F)   Speed limits and illegal parking zones are already posted or painted
or marked and may be changed by City Council vote.
   (G)   It is the intent of the Common Council of the city that each separate
provision of this section shall be deemed independent of all other provisions
herein, and it is further the intention of the Common Council of the city that
if any provisions of this section be declared to be invalid, all other
provisions therein shall remain valid and in full force and effect, and
enforceable.
(Ord. 100-01, passed 11-2-1981; Ord. passed 5-4-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate and control the use of the city’s streets and
ways, see W.V. Code, 8-12-2, 8-12-5, subsec. (4)
   Authority of city to regulate traffic and parking generally, see W.V. Code
17C-2-8
   Motor vehicle registration by state, see W.V. Code Ch. 17 A
   State motor vehicle operators and chauffeurs’s licenses, see W.V. Code Ch.
17B
   State traffic regulations, laws of the road, vehicle equipment, inspection
and size, load and weight regulations, see W.V. Code Ch. 17C
ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY OF POLICE, FIRE DEPARTMENTS OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
§ 70.16 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS, HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways,
except:
   (A)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; and
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code, except §§
72.200 through
72.204, shall apply upon streets and highways as defined in §
72.255.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-1)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
§ 70.18 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state, or any county,
municipality, town, district, or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this traffic code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway, but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4)
§ 70.19 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle, while in motion, sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
72.172 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-5)
§ 70.20 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS, DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this traffic code, except those
provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-6)
§ 70.21 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge, or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property, as provided in W. Va. Code Art. 17-24;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this traffic code or W. Va. Code Art. 17C-
15, whereby its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to
life, limb, or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured, or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of a crash or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked; and/or
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this traffic code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) above shall be
disposed of as provided under W. Va. Code Art. 17-24. Any other vehicle removed
under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage, and the Police
Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner of the fact of
such removal and impounding, reasons therefor, and the place of storage. Any
person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the Police
Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or right
to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner, or
operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations.
The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
§ 70.22 RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this traffic code shall be construed to prevent an owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this traffic code, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such
owner.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-9)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not provided shall, for a first conviction thereof, be fined not
more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days; for a second such
conviction within one year thereafter, such person shall be fined not more than
$200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, such person shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-18-1)
CHAPTER 71: STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
Street Obstruction; Special Uses
   
71.01   Placing injurious material in street
   
71.02   Play streets
   
71.03   Toy vehicles on streets
   
71.04   Parades and assemblages
Traffic Control Devices
   
71.15   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
71.16   Obedience to traffic control instructions at street construction
   
71.17   Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
71.18   Pedestrian control signals
   
71.19   Flashing traffic signals
   
71.20   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
71.21   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices
   
71.22   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dropping, leaking loads, see § 72.198
   Traffic control devices defined, see §
70.01
   Traffic control signal defined, see §
70.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to place traffic control devices, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)
(2), 17C-3-3
   Authority to prohibit littering in streets, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(3)
   Authority to regulate processions or assemblages, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8
(a)(3)
   Local regulations requiring traffic control devices, see W. Va. Code § 17C-
2-8(c)
   Placing traffic control devices on state highways, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-
8(b), 17C-3-2
STREET OBSTRUCTION; SPECIAL USES
§ 71.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal, or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-11)
   (D)   No person shall throw, place, or deposit upon any street or highway
any material, article, or substance which injures or damages, or is likely to
injure or damage, the street or highway.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads, or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of
engaging in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways
specifically set aside for such purposes.
   (B)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway, or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk, and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   No person, group of persons, or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage, or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may
be prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to
a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   Applications shall be filed not less than five days before the time
intended for such parade, procession, or assemblage.
   (C)   (1)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
         (a)   The time, place, size, or conduct of the parade, including the
assembly areas and route of march, would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
         (b)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area, and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
         (c)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment, or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
         (d)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
         (e)   The information contained in the application is found to be
false, misleading, or incomplete in any material detail; and/or
         (f)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
      (2)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel, and the streets, highways, or portions
thereof, which may be used or occupied.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective
even though no signs are erected or in place.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4)
§ 71.16 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways,
or by proper local authorities, to operate traffic control devices, act as
flagmen, or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4a)
§ 71.17 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
72.136, may proceed straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone, except as provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn, but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that the
Council may, by ordinance, prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop”
signal at any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is
erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street, but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at such
intersection, except that the Council may, by ordinance, prohibit any such left
turn against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall
be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Other than at an intersection. In the event an official traffic
control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those
provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop
shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be
made at the signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-6)
§ 71.19 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Local authorities, in areas that experience low traffic times, may
permit flashing signals between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-7)
§ 71.20 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic control device or
traffic control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway, any traffic control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign, or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways, or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-8) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon,
or any other part thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-9) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Where street or highway construction work is being conducted, signs
and other traffic control devices, as adopted in W. Va. Code § 17C-3-1, shall
be posted giving the location of the work and notifying all motorists as to the
speed limit and any other traffic restrictions.
   (B)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (A) above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this traffic code for such violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4b) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   General penalty. Whoever violates §§
71.15,
71.16, or
71.18 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Construction zones.
         (a)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.22 by less than 15 mph shall be fined not more than $200.
         (b)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.22 by 15 mph or more shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 20 days, or both.
CHAPTER 72: VEHICULAR OPERATION
Section
Crashes
   
72.001   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
72.002   Crashes involving damage to vehicle
   
72.003   Duty to give information and render aid
   
72.004   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
72.005   Collision with fixtures upon a street or highway
   
72.006   Immediate reports of crashes
   
72.007   When driver unable to report
   
72.008   Garages to report bullet damage
Driving Under the Influence; Reckless Driving
   
72.020   Driving under the influence
   
72.021   Participation in Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
   
72.022   Reckless driving
   
72.023   Hazardous driving
Open Container Law
   
72.035   Definitions
   
72.036   Possession of open alcoholic beverage container; passenger area
   
72.037   Procedure on arrest
Speed Restrictions
   
72.050   Maximum speed limits
   
72.051   Slow speed
   
72.052   Special speed limitations
   
72.053   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
   
72.054   Prima facie evidence of speed by radar
   
72.055   Special speed limitations when meeting, overtaking waste service
vehicles
Driving on Right; Passing
   
72.070   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
72.071   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
72.072   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
72.073   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
72.074   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
72.075   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.076   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
72.077   One-way roadways, rotary traffic islands
   
72.078   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
72.079   Following too closely
   
72.080   Driving upon divided roadways
   
72.081   Entering, exiting controlled-access highway
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
72.095   Conformity with provisions required
   
72.096   Right turns
   
72.097   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
72.098   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
72.099   Specified turns at intersections
   
72.100   U-turns restricted
   
72.101   Starting vehicle
   
72.102   Signals before changing course, turning, stopping
   
72.103   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
72.104   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.115   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.116   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.117   Right-of-way at through street, highway, stop intersections
   
72.118   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
72.119   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
72.120   Turning into private driveway, alley, building
Special Stops Required
   
72.135   Driving across grade crossing
   
72.136   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
72.137   Stopping at grade crossings
   
72.138   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
72.139   Through streets and stop intersections
   
72.140   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalks
   
72.141   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
72.142   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
72.143   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
Safety and Equipment
   
72.155   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm, road equipment; exceptions
   
72.156   When lighted lights required
   
72.157   Measurement of distances and heights
   
72.158   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
72.159   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
72.160   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
72.161   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
72.162   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
72.163   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
72.164   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
72.165   Cowl, fender, back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
72.166   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
72.167   Use of headlight beam
   
72.168   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
72.169   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds
   
72.170   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
72.171   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
72.172   Special restrictions on lights
   
72.173   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
72.174   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, mopeds
   
72.175   Horn, siren, theft alarm signal
   
72.176   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas, noise
   
72.177   Rear-view mirror
   
72.178   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
72.179   Tire equipment restrictions
   
72.180   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
72.181   Video screens and monitors, television receivers in view of driver
prohibited
   
72.182   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles,
mopeds
   
72.183   Certification labels on mopeds
   
72.184   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats, booster
seats
   
72.185   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
72.186   Alteration of motor vehicles; bumper height limits
   
72.187   Sun screening devices
   
72.188   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
   
72.200   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
72.201   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
72.202   Maximum width, height, length
   
72.203   Loads dropping or leaking
   
72.204   Towing requirements
Miscellaneous Rules
   
72.215   Backing a vehicle
   
72.216   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
72.217   Passengers in seat with operator
   
72.218   Passengers on running board
   
72.219   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.220   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.221   Driving over fire hose
   
72.222   Funeral processions
   
72.223   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
72.224   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
72.225   Unlawful riding
   
72.226   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
72.227   Taking, injuring, tampering with vehicle
   
72.228   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn, curb
   
72.229   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
   
72.230   Coasting prohibited
   
72.231   Driving through safety zone
   
72.232   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
72.233   Obstruction of traffic
   
72.234   Vehicle security
   
72.235   Littering from a motor vehicle
   
72.236   Electronically distracted driving
Licensing Generally
   
72.250   Registration, certificate of title required
   
72.251   Registration card
   
72.252   Display of registration
   
72.253   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
72.254   Improper use of registration card, plate, permit
   
72.255   Driver, motorcycle license required
   
72.256   Persons exempt from license
   
72.257   Display of license
   
72.258   Certain acts prohibited
   
72.259   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
72.260   Owner, operator allowing another to drive
Commercial Drivers
   
72.275   Definitions
   
72.276   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
72.277   Employer responsibilities
   
72.278   Commercial driver’s license required
   
72.279   Exemptions
   
72.280   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
   
72.281   Commercial drivers prohibited from texting
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.295   Definitions
   
72.296   Acts prohibited by operator
   
72.297   Safety awareness courses
   
72.298   Rental dealers required to provide safety equipment
   
72.299   Private property exemption
   
72.300   Exemption from farm, commercial use; current regulations
   
72.301   Applicability of rules of operation
Autonomous Vehicles and Devices
   
72.315   Definitions
   
72.316   Rules for personal delivery devices and mobile carriers
 
   
72.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle equipment, see §§
74.20 through
74.29, 74.99
   Impounding wrecked, unlicensed vehicles, see §
70.21
   Intoxication or drinking in a public place, see §
130.095
   Obedience to traffic control devices, see §
71.15
   Removal of glass and the like from highway, see §
71.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate through streets and stop intersections, see W. Va.
Code § 17C-2-8(a)(6), Ch. 17C
   Authority to designate weight limits on local streets, see W. Va. Code §
17C-2-8(a)(7)
   Authority to establish one-way streets, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8(c)(4)
   Authority to permit oversized buses, see W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2(b)
   Authority to prohibit driving under the influence, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5
(21)
   Authority to regulate speed, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8, 17C-6-3
   Authority to regulate the turning of vehicles, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)
(9)
   Authority to require local crash report, see W. Va. Code § 17C-4-15
   Authority to specify different courses for turns, see W. Va. Code Ch. 17C
   Compliance with state law, see W. Va. Code § 17C-5-11(a)
   Implied consent, see W. Va. Code § 17C-5A
   Minimum speed regulations, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3(a)
   Obscured light on vehicles in combination, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-13
   Special speed limitations, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-6-4 et seq.
   State law provisions, see W. Va. Code Art. 17F-1
   Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, see W.Va. Code Art. 17E
   Use of radar, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-7
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-39
CRASHES
§ 72.001 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in the injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of
the crash, or as close to the scene as possible, and return to and remain at
the scene of the crash until he or she has complied with the requirements of §
72.003; provided, that the driver may leave the scene of the crash as may
reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance to any person
injured in the crash, as required by §
72.003.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness, or
any impairment of physical condition.
      PHYSICAL INJURY. Bodily injury, serious bodily injury, or death.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, prolonged loss, or impairment of the function of any bodily organ, loss
of pregnancy, or the morbidity or mortality occurring because of a preterm
delivery.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall revoke the license or permit or operating
privilege to drive of any resident or non-resident person convicted pursuant to
the provisions of this section for a period of one year from the date of
conviction or the date of release from incarceration, whichever is later.
   (D)   This section may be known and cited as Erin’s Law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1)
§ 72.002 CRASHES INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage
to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such crash, or as close thereto as possible, but
shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
crash until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
72.003.
   (B)   Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in
injury to or death of any person, or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person, shall, if physically able to do so, provide to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of, or person attending, any vehicle
collided with, the following:
         (a)   His or her name, a valid telephone number where he or she may be
contacted, and the year, make, model, and last four digits of the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle he or she is driving; and
         (b)   Proof of security and financial responsibility required by W.
Va. Code §§ 17D-2A-3 and 17D-4-2, and if provided by insurance, the information
provided upon the certificate of insurance, including the name of the insured,
the name and contact information of the insurer, and insurance policy number.
      (2)   A driver may meet the requirements of this division (A) by
providing the information required herein to a law enforcement officer who is
investigating or providing assistance at the scene of the collision, who shall,
if practical under the circumstances, provide the information to any person
entitled thereto pursuant to this division (A).
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to
or death of any person, if physically able to do so, shall render to any person
injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon,
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-3)
§ 72.004 COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-4)
§ 72.005 COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON A STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact, and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, and shall upon request
and if available exhibit his or her driver’s license and shall make report of
such crash when and as required.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-5)
§ 72.006 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF CRASHES.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to or death
of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $1,000 or more
shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such
crash to the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-6)
§ 72.007 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate notification of a crash as required in §
72.006, and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the crash
capable of making a notification, such occupant shall make or cause to be made
such notification not made by the driver.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-8)
§ 72.008 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet shall
report to the Police Department, within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-12)
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; RECKLESS DRIVING
§ 72.020 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness, or
any impairment of physical condition.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The meaning provided in W. Va. Code § 60A-1-101.
      IMPAIRED STATE. A person:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug or inhalant substance;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0008% or
more, by weight.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
      TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM. The Motor Vehicle Test and Lock Program,
established in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a and administered by the Division of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   A person may be charged in a warrant, indictment, or information for a
second or subsequent offense, as described in §
72.999(D)(7) or (D)(9), if the person has been previously arrested for, or
charged with, a violation of this section which is alleged to have occurred
within the applicable time period for prior offenses, notwithstanding the fact
that there has not been a final adjudication of the charges for the alleged
previous offense. In that case, the warrant or indictment or information must
set forth the date, location, and particulars of the previous offense or
offenses. No person may be convicted of a second or subsequent offense under
this section unless the conviction for the previous offense has become final,
or the person has previously had a period of conditional probation imposed
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b.
   (C)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of §
72.999(D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), or (D)(4), or any person permitted to drive as
described under §
72.999(D)(5) or (D)(6), is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a drug does not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating §
72.999(D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), or (D)(6).
   (D)   The sentences provided in §
72.999(D), upon conviction for a violation of this section, are mandatory and
are not subject to suspension or probation; provided, that the court may apply
the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 62-11A-1 et seq. to a person sentenced or
committed to a term of one year or less for a first offense under this section;
provided, however, that the court may impose a term of conditional probation
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b to persons adjudicated thereunder. An order
for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§
62-11B-1 et seq. may be used as an alternative sentence to any period of
incarceration required by this section for a first or subsequent offense;
provided further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered for a
person convicted of a second offense under this section, electronic monitoring
shall be required for no fewer than five days of the total period of home
confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those five days
notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5; and provided further,
that for any period of home incarceration ordered for a person convicted of a
third or subsequent violation of this section, electronic monitoring shall be
included for no fewer than ten days of the total period of home confinement
ordered and the offender may not leave home for those ten days notwithstanding
W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5.
   (E)   A person whose license to operate a motor vehicle has been revoked or
suspended by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles pursuant to
this section must complete a comprehensive safety and treatment program as set
forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3 before his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle can be reinstated and his or her driving privileges restored.
   (F)   For any offense for which an alternative revocation period is
permitted conditioned upon participation in the Test and Lock Program, an
alternative sentence may not be imposed without the consent of the driver.
   (G)   Upon entering the order of conviction for an offense under this
section, or the imposition of conditional probation as provided in W. Va. Code
§ 17C-5-2b, the Clerk of the court shall immediately transmit the order to the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2)
§ 72.021 PARTICIPATION IN MOTOR VEHICLE ALCOHOL TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the court, without
entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused, shall defer
further proceedings and impose probation, when:
         (a)   The person pleads to or is found guilty of the offense defined
in §
72.999(D)(2);
         (b)   The person has not previously been convicted of any offense
under this subchapter or under any statute of the United States, or of any
state relating to driving under the influence of alcohol, any controlled
substance, or any other drug; and
         (c)   The person notifies the court within 30 days of his or her
arrest of his or her intention to participate in a deferral pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   If all the requirements in division (A)(1) above are met, the
court, without entering a judgment of guilt, shall defer further proceedings
and place the person on probation, the conditions of which shall include that
he or she successfully completes the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock
Program as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Participation therein shall be
for a period of at least 165 days after a 15-day suspension of his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle and shall be completed within one year
thereafter.
   (B)   (1)   If the prosecuting attorney files a motion alleging that the
defendant during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
has been removed therefrom by the Division of Motor Vehicles, or has failed to
successfully complete the program before making a motion for dismissal pursuant
to division (C) below, the court may issue such process as is necessary to
bring the defendant before the court.
      (2)   A motion alleging a violation filed pursuant to division (C)(1)
below must be filed during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program or, if filed thereafter, must be filed within a reasonable time
after the alleged violation was committed.
      (3)   When the defendant is brought before the court, the court shall
afford the defendant an opportunity to be heard. If the court finds that the
defendant has been rightfully removed from the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program by the Division of Motor Vehicles, the court may order, when
appropriate, that the deferral be terminated, and thereupon enter an
adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided.
      (4)   Should the defendant fail to complete or be removed from the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program, the defendant waives the appropriate
statute of limitations and the defendant’s right to a speedy trial under any
applicable federal or state constitutional provisions, statutes, or rules of
court during the period of enrollment in the program.
   (C)   When the defendant shall have completed satisfactorily the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program and complied with its conditions, the
defendant may move the court for an order dismissing the charges. This motion
shall be supported by affidavit of the defendant and by certification of the
Division of Motor Vehicles that the defendant has successfully completed the
Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program. A copy of the motion shall be
served on the prosecuting attorney who shall, within 30 days after service,
advise the judge of any objections to the motion, serving a copy of such
objections on the defendant or the defendant’s attorney. If there are no
objections filed within the 30-day period, the court shall thereafter dismiss
the charges against the defendant. If there are objections filed with regard to
the dismissal of charges, the court shall proceed as set forth in division (B)
above.
   (D)   Except as provided herein, unless a defendant adjudicated pursuant to
this division (D) is convicted of a subsequent violation of §§
72.020 or
72.999(D), or W. Va. Code § 17C-5, discharge and dismissal under this section
shall be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for purposes of
disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime,
except for those provided in W. Va. Code §§ 17C-5A-1 et seq. Except as provided
in §
72.999(D) regarding subsequent offenses, the effect of the dismissal and
discharge shall be to restore the person in contemplation of law to the status
he or she occupied prior to arrest and trial. No person as to whom a dismissal
and discharge have been effected shall be thereafter held to be guilty of
perjury, false swearing, or otherwise giving a false statement by reason of his
or her failure to disclose or acknowledge his or her arrest or trial in
response to any inquiry made of him or her for any purpose other than any
inquiry made in connection with any subsequent offense as provided in §
72.999(D).
   (E)   There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this section with
respect to any person.
   (F)   No person shall be eligible for dismissal and discharge under this
section:
      (1)   In any prosecution in which any violation of any other provision of
§§
72.020 or
72.999(D), or W. Va. Code § 17C-5 has been charged;
      (2)   If the person holds a commercial driver’s license or operates
commercial motor vehicles;
       (3)   If the person has previously had his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle revoked for any offense under a municipal ordinance of the state
or any other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state
which has the same elements as an offense described in this subchapter; or
      (4)   If a court entered an order finding that the person refused the
secondary chemical test pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-7a.
   (G)   (1)   After a period of not less than one year, which shall begin to
run immediately upon the expiration of a term of probation imposed upon any
person under this section, the person may apply to the court for an order to
expunge all official records of his or her arrest, trial, and conviction,
pursuant to this section except for those maintained by the Division of Motor
Vehicles; provided, that any person who has previously been convicted of a
felony may not make a motion for expungement pursuant to this section.
      (2)   If the prosecuting attorney objects to the expungement, the
objections shall be filed with the court within 30 days after service of a
motion for expungement, and copies of the objections shall be served on the
defendant or the defendant’s attorney.
      (3)   If the objections are filed, the court shall hold a hearing on the
objections, affording all parties an opportunity to be heard. If the court
determines after a hearing that the person during the period of his or her
probation and during the period of time prior to his or her application to the
court under this division (G) has not been guilty of any serious or repeated
violation of the conditions of his or her probation, it shall order the
expungement.
   (H)   A person prosecuted for an offense under §
72.999(D)(2), whose case is disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this
section, shall be required to pay the amount of court costs that could be
assessed against a person convicted of the offense. Payment of such costs may
be made a condition of probation. The costs assessed pursuant to this division
(H), whether as a term of probation or not, shall be distributed as other court
costs in accordance with W. Va. Code §§ 50-3-2, 14-2A-4, 30-29-4, and 62-5-2,
62-5-7, and 62-5-10.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b)
§ 72.022 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property
of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and
public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events, or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.023 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.999
OPEN CONTAINER LAW
§ 72.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor, as defined in W. Va. Code § 60-1-5; and
      (2)   Non-intoxicating beer, as defined in W. Va. Code § 11-16-3.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and
manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a
vehicle operated solely on a rail or rails.
   OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can, or other receptacle
that:
      (1)   Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (2)   (a)   Is open or has a broken seal; or
         (b)   Has had its contents partially removed.
   PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. The area designed to seat the driver and
passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily
accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions. For
purposes of this subchapter, the PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE does not
include:
      (1)   (a)   A locked glove compartment; or
         (b)   A fixed center console or other similar fixed compartment that
is locked.
      (2)   In a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk:
         (a)   The area behind the last upright seat; or
         (b)   An area not normally occupied by the driver or a passenger.
      (3)   In a pickup truck that has no trunk, camper top, or separate
enclosed area other than the cab of the truck, in the area behind the front
seat of the truck in a locked case or container located so as to not be readily
accessible to the driver or passengers while in their seating positions.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY OF A PUBLIC HIGHWAY. The entire width between
the immediately adjacent to the boundary lines of every way that is publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-2)
§ 72.036 POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER; PASSENGER AREA.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
consume any alcoholic beverage in the passenger area of a motor vehicle located
on a public highway or right-of-way of a public highway in the municipality,
whether the vehicle is in motion or at rest.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
knowingly possess any open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area
of any motor vehicle that is located on a public highway or right-of-way of a
public highway in the municipality, whether the vehicle is in motion or at
rest. Possession by a person of one or more open containers in a single
criminal occurrence is a single offense.
   (C)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to a passenger:
      (1)   In the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained, or
used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation including,
but not limited to, a bus, taxicab, or limousine; or
      (2)   In the living quarters of a motorized or non-motorized house coach,
house trailer, motor home, or self-contained camper.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.037 PROCEDURE ON ARREST.
   If a person is arrested for an offense under the provisions of this
subchapter, unless the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17C-19-3 require that the
person arrested be taken immediately before a magistrate for an offense
described in that section, the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 17C-19 regarding
the issuance of a traffic citation containing a notice to appear applies.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-4)
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.050 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards.
      (2)   In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering
the streets and highways in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   (B)   (1)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
division (B) or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful. The
following speed limits apply.
         (a)   1.   Fifteen mph in a school zone during school recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
            2.   A SCHOOL ZONE is all school property including school grounds
and any street or highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet
along such street or highway from the school grounds and, in the case of school
property not abutting a street or highway but accessed through a right-of-way
granted for entrance to school property, a school zone established by an
engineering study conducted by the Division of Highways is all school property,
including school grounds and any property within the access right-of-way, and
extending 125 feet along the street or highway from the entrance to the access
right-of-way.
            3.   The speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on
a controlled-access highway which is separated from the school or school
grounds by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of Highways.
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any business or residence district.
         (c)   Fifty-five mph on open country highways; except as otherwise
provided by this subchapter.
      (2)   The speeds set forth in this section may be altered as authorized
in W. Va. Code Art. 17C-6.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (D)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph and the speed limits specified in division (B) above do not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.051 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a)) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.052 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this traffic code, no
person shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped
with pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
         (a)   Twenty mph in any business district;
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district; and/or
         (c)   Forty mph on open country highway.
      (2)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
   (C)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-5)
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.053 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or
timer or in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined in division
(B) below, on any public street or highway in the municipality.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SPEED RACE means:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8(a)) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.054 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF SPEED BY RADAR.
   The speed of a motor vehicle may be proved by evidence obtained by use of
any device designed to measure and indicate or record the speed of a moving
object by means of microwaves or reflected light, when such evidence is
obtained by members of the Police Department. The evidence so obtained shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-7)
§ 72.055 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS WHEN MEETING, OVERTAKING WASTE SERVICE
VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle and meet or overtake from either
direction a stopped waste service vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, WASTE SERVICE VEHICLE means any garbage
collection vehicle, including a vehicle collecting recyclables or yard waste,
which is used for curbside collection, makes frequent stops, and is not fully
automated.
   (C)   The speed limitation set forth in division (A) above applies only
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The waste service vehicle is identifiable as a waste service
vehicle based on the vehicle configuration or markings on the vehicle;
      (2)   The waste service vehicle operator is giving a visual signal by
means of a stationary sign to warn of the presence of workers or must use
flashing lights as permitted in this code to caution other drivers; and
      (3)   The waste service vehicle is not located on a private driveway,
controlled access highway, interstate highway, turnpike, or road or highway
with a centerline and more than two lanes.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11) Penalty, see §
72.999
DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
§ 72.070 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction; or
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-1)
§ 72.071 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-2)
§ 72.072 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction subject to these limitations, exceptions, and special
rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left of the
overtaken vehicle at a safe distance and may not again drive to the right side
of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed, and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (C)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-3)
§ 72.073 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and/or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.074 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.075 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and/or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.076 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing, or driving to the left
of the roadway, would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.077 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS, ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c)) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.078 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane,
except in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-9) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.079 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided, that
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone;”
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of the state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of the state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-10) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.080 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier, or clearly indicated dividing
section, so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier, or section, except through
an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space, or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-11) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.081 ENTERING, EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-12) Penalty, see §
72.999
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 72.095 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-1)
§ 72.096 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-2)
§ 72.097 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered.
   (B)   Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that portion of
the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-3)
§ 72.098 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.099 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The Council, or other designated traffic authority, may cause markers,
buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections, and thereby
require and direct that a different course from that specified in this
subchapter be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a
vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by such markers,
buttons, or signs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.100 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway, or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs
are erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.101 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.102 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING, STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
72.096 through
72.099, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-8) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.103 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm, or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device, but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal
would not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then such
signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-9) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.104 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-10)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.115 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-1)
§ 72.116 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this traffic code, may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-2)
§ 72.117 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET, HIGHWAY, STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
72.119 at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways, or which are approaching so closely on such
through street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard but the driver
having so yielded may proceed.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-3)
§ 72.118 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-4)
§ 72.119 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
72.172, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated
as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-5)
§ 72.120 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY, BUILDING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley, or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules.
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley, or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway, or building.
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 72.135 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and/or
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.136 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   The Council, or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the
State Commissioner of Highways, is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads, and to erect stop signs
thereat. When such stop signs are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop
within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail of such
railroad and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.137 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) below, the driver of a
commercial motor vehicle, specified in division (B) below, shall not cross a
railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
         (a)   Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
         (b)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
         (c)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
      (2)   (a)   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial
motor vehicle across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor
vehicle to complete the crossing without change of gears.
         (b)   The driver shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks at grade:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 392.10(a)(3) (2001);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. parts 107 through 180
(2001);
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120 (2001); and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 107,
subpart B (2001).
   (C)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with division (A) above.
   (D)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade as provided in division (A) above may not
cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows the
commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad
crossing, and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are
clear of an approaching train.
   (E)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (F)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flagger, or a
traffic-control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5 (2000);
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law, permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.138 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of ten or less mph, or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than one-half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles
or in any event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of
a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first
complying with this section.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet nor
more than 50 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad, and while so stopped
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not
proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (D)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates, or a flagman or otherwise, of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car. If a flagman is provided by the railroad, movement
over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.139 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council or other designated traffic authority may designate
through streets or highways, and erect stop signs at specified entrances
thereto, or may designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect
like signs at one or more entrances to such intersection.
   (B)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height, and such sign shall, at nighttime, be rendered luminous
by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected
on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (D)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-5)
§ 72.140 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-6)
§ 72.141 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children, shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-12-8, and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road,
or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway, and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
   (B)   Where the actual identity of the operator of a motor vehicle operated
in violation of division (A) above is unknown, but the license plate number of
the motor vehicle is known, it may be inferred that the operator was an owner
or lessee of the motor vehicle for purposes of the probable cause
determination. Where there is more than one registered owner or lessee, the
inference created by this division (B) shall apply to the first listed owner or
lessee as found on the motor vehicle registration; provided, that a person
charged with a violation of division (A) above under the provisions of this
division (B) where the sole evidence against the owner or lessee is the
presence of the vehicle at the scene at the time of the offense shall only be
subject to the applicable fine set forth in §
72.999(K)(3).
   (C)   Service of process of a complaint issued pursuant to division (B)
above shall be effected consistent with State Rule of Criminal Procedure 4.
   (D)   (1)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall
bear upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the
words “school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a
contract school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes
other than the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all
markings thereon indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed.
      (2)   Any school bus sold or transferred to another owner by a County
Board of Education, agency, or individual, shall have all flashing warning
lights disconnected and all lettering removed or permanently obscured, except
when sold or transferred for the transportation of school children.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7)
§ 72.142 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-
12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult must use by
exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code § 17C-15-26(e).
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van when
there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights or
when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated, or
the passenger resumes motion. This section applies whenever the passenger van
is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot, private
road, or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled
access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van which is
on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7a)
§ 72.143 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
Penalty, see §
72.999
SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
§ 72.155 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM, ROAD EQUIPMENT;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved, on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this subchapter, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this subchapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform
any act required under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to equipment on
vehicles shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road
rollers, or farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor
equipped with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
72.156 display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
72.156.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.156 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, or moped, operated upon a street or highway within the municipality at
any time from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain, or other
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
street or highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, shall display lighted head
lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter respectively required for
different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect to parked
vehicles as provided for in §
72.161(C).
   (B)   Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
Lighted lamps and other lighting devices that consist of multiple light-
emitting diodes (LEDs) or other illuminating components that function as a
single lighting unit are deemed to be functional so long as at least 66% of the
LEDs or other illuminating components are functional; provided, that the
lighted lamps or lighting devices must still project sufficient illumination to
satisfy all other requirements contained in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-2)
§ 72.157 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
72.156 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric conditions, unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3)
§ 72.158 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle, and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches, nor less than 24 inches, to
be measured as set forth in §
72.157.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-4)
§ 72.159 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; provided, that in the case of a train of vehicles, only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches to be measured as set forth in §
72.157(B).
   (C)   (1)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed
and placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
      (2)   Any tail lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the head lamps or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-5)
§ 72.160 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
72.156, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the entire area
is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-14)
§ 72.161 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise, and in the event there is sufficient
light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such
street or highway, no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise, and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements: At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped.
   (C)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-15)
§ 72.162 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles, including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred
to in §
72.155(C), not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall, at the times specified in §
72.156, be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a
white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-16)
§ 72.163 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, a lamp or lighting device meets the
requirements specified below so long as any portion of the illuminating surface
of the lamp or lighting device is within the specified range.
   (B)   All lamps and lighting devices covered in this section may be
installed so that the entire lamp or lighting device exceeds 42 inches above
the level surface upon which the vehicle stands so long as such lamps or
lighting devices are either covered or dimmable.
      (1)   Spot lamps.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle except a public utility company maintenance
vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp, and every lighted
spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle that no
part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the left of
the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor more than 100
feet ahead of the vehicle.
         (b)   A public utility company maintenance vehicle may be equipped
with more than one spot lamp, but all lighted spot lamps shall be aimed and
used in conformity to the requirements of this division (B)(1).
      (2)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall, at a distance of 25
feet ahead, project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
      (3)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary passing lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands, and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements
and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (4)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands, and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
      (5)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device.
         (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road
light bar lighting device comprised of multiple lamps.
         (b)   Provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or driven upon
any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall
be turned off while the vehicle is being operated on any road or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-17)
§ 72.164 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped, and when required under this
traffic code shall be equipped, with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp; or
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (B)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime,
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
72.156.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-18)
§ 72.165 COWL, FENDER, BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (C)   All motor vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of at least two
functioning back-up lamps either separately or in combination with other lamps,
unless the vehicle was originally equipped with one lamp. Any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses
used for the transportation of school children in the municipality, whether
owned and operated by a County Board of Education, or privately owned and
operated under contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped
with at least two back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white
lens or reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of
the bus for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the
County Board of Education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination
intensity instead of 32 candlepower.
   (D)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps
used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level
and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (E)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering, or picking up mail along the route.
   (F)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking, or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps or flashing
lights used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall display
simultaneously either illuminating or flashing purple lights. The lamps used to
display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing
or illuminated purple lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-19)
§ 72.166 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations, and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (B)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading, none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   (C)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle
or moped, registered in the state after January 1, 1952, which has multiple-
beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which
shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head
lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so
designed and located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare
to the driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-20)
§ 72.167 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAM.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
72.156, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle
within 500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the
oncoming driver.
      (2)   The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in
§
72.166(B), shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road
contour and loading.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this traffic
code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
72.166(A).
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-21)
§ 72.168 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952 in lieu
of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations.
   (A)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall, at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (B)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-22)
§ 72.169 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type, but in either event
shall comply with the requirements and limitations as follows.
   (A)   Every head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
mph and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated at a speed
of 25 or more mph.
   (B)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps the upper beam shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth above, and shall not exceed the limitations set
forth in §
72.166(A) and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements applicable to a
lowermost distribution of light as set forth in §
72.166(B).
   (C)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
single-beam lamp or lamps, such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when the
vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it comes.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) below, a motorcycle may be equipped
with, and an operator of a motorcycle may use, the following auxiliary
lighting:
         (a)   Amber and white illumination;
         (b)   Standard bulb running lights; or
         (c)   Light-emitting diode pods and strips.
      (2)   Lighting under this division (D) shall be:
         (a)   Non-blinking;
         (b)   Non-flashing;
         (c)   Non-oscillating; and
         (d)   Directed toward the engine and the drive train of the motorcycle
to prevent interference with the driver’s operation of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-23)
§ 72.170 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
72.156 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
72.166 or
72.168; provided, that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of
20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-24)
§ 72.171 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
72.156, at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps, as herein required,
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp, or any other lamp, on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-25)
§ 72.172 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps, or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person may drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device on the vehicle displaying other than a white or amber
light visible from directly in front of the center of the vehicle, except as
authorized by division (D) below.
   (C)   Except as authorized in divisions (D) and (G) below and §
72.165, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any
vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means
of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may
have blinking or flashing lights.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this traffic code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated.
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each Police Department.
      (2)   (a)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by §
72.165, red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
            1.   Ambulances;
            2.   Firefighting vehicles;
            3.   Hazardous material response vehicles;
            4.   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
            5.   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a Fire Department;
            6.   School buses;
            7.   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code §§ 17A-10-1 et
seq., of those firefighters who are authorized by their Fire Chiefs to have the
lights;
            8.   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads
not operating out of a Fire Department;
            9.   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
            10.   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active
members of State Fire Departments, ambulance services, or duly chartered rescue
squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have the lights;
            11.   State Department of Agriculture emergency response vehicles;
            12.   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security for emergency response or emergency management by the
Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional Facility Authority,
Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management;
            13.   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency
management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence; and
            14.   Emergency management and operations vehicles operated by
airports.
         (b)   Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle may be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services, or
chartered rescue squads.
      (3)   The use of red flashing warning lights is authorized as follows.
         (a)   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and the Sheriff of the county of residence.
         (b)   Authorization for all Fire Department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         (c)   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         (d)   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a Fire Department shall be designated by the squad chief, the Sheriff of the
county of residence, and the Department of Health.
         (e)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
         (f)   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s office.
         (g)   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health, and the Sheriff
of the county of residence.
         (h)   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a Fire Department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the Sheriff of the county of residence, and
the Department of Health.
         (i)   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a State Fire Department, ambulance services,
or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their respective chiefs.
         (j)   Authorization for State Department of Agriculture emergency
response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner of the Department of
Agriculture.
         (k)   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security.
         (l)   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence.
         (m)   Authorization for emergency management and operations vehicles
operated by airports shall be designated by the airport director and the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and § 17C-15-27;
         (b)   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized
in §
72.165;
         (c)   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         (d)   Flag car services;
         (e)   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         (f)   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         (g)   Snow removal equipment;
         (h)   School buses; and
         (i)   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department, or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows.
         (a)   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation, and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence.
         (b)   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways.
         (c)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12.
         (d)   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard for automotive fire
apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) on
July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by legislative rule (87
C.S.R. §§ 1 et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
         (e)   1.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
any vehicle belonging to a County Board of Education, an organization receiving
funding from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of
providing general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped
with a white flashing strobotron warning light.
            2.   This strobe light may be installed on the roof of a school
bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling solid waste not to
exceed one-third the body length forward from the rear of the roof edge.
            3.   The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360
degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than
six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to
indicate the light is in operation.
         (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any
waste service vehicle, as defined in W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11, may be equipped
with yellow or amber flashing warning lights.
         (g)   It is unlawful for flashing warning lights of an unauthorized
color to be installed or used on a vehicle other than as specified in this
section, except that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue
or red warning lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.173 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semi-trailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer hereinafter sold
in the state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped, and any semi-
trailer of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight, need not be equipped with
brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   (a)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power; provided, that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
         (b)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake
shoe anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated
with the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                              Feet to stop from 20 mph Deceleration in feet per
                                                       second
Vehicles or combination of
vehicles having brakes on all 30                       14
wheels
Vehicles or combination of
vehicles not having brakes on 40                       10.7
all wheels
 
   (C)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-31)
§ 72.174 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has
disapproved the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-32) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.175 HORN, SIREN, THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall
be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   (1)   It is permissible, but not required, that any commercial vehicle
be equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it
cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
      (2)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions
from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of
an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the
driver of such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-33) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.176 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, NOISE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise.
      (2)   Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-34)
§ 72.177 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-35)
§ 72.178 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, or
other non-transparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, or side
or rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
street or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.179 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer, or semi-trailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   (a)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the
period from November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year.
         (b)   Provided, that in the interest of highway maintenance, no
vehicle moved on a highway, other than school buses, shall be equipped with
studded tires which are operational with a recommended air pressure greater
than 40 pounds per square inch.
   (D)   Council may in its discretion issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a highway
would otherwise be prohibited under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-37) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.180 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side, and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (B)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-41) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.181 VIDEO SCREENS AND MONITORS, TELEVISION RECEIVERS IN VIEW OF DRIVER
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No motor vehicle may be operated on a street or highway when equipped
with a television receiver, video monitor, television, or video screen unless
the receiver, screen, or monitor is configured so that the moving images are
not in view of the operator while the vehicle is in motion, or if falls within
one or more of the categories set forth in divisions (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   This prohibition does not apply to the following equipment installed
in a vehicle:
      (1)   A visual display if it does not show video or television broadcast
images in view of the operator while the motor vehicle is in motion;
      (2)   A global positioning device;
      (3)   A mapping display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind, or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement a driver’s view of
vehicle occupants; or
      (6)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering information.
   (C)   A television receiver, video monitor, television, or video screen or
other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal is not prohibited if the equipment has an interlock device that, when
the motor vehicle is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a
visual display described in divisions (B)(1) to (B)(6) above.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-42)
§ 72.182 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES,
MOPEDS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration, and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (B)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses), or eyegoggles or face shield that complies with the
performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye, and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person, nor
shall any other person ride on such a vehicle, unless the vehicle is designed
to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the
operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the
operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the
passenger, or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride
sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are
seats and footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may
be carried in a factory produced side car; provided, that there is one
passenger per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by
safety belts.
   (E)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
   (F)   (1)   AUTOCYCLE means a fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that is
equipped with safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror, automotive
seating, a steering wheel, and equipment otherwise required on a motorcycle and
which has no more than three wheels in contact with the roadway at any one
time.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-69)
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
person with a valid driver’s license who is operating a fully enclosed
autocycle, as defined in division (F)(1) above, is exempt from the provisions
of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-44) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.183 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in the municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-45)
§ 72.184 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS, BOOSTER
SEATS.
   (A)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van, or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, shall provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining, and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.185 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va.
Code Art. 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval, or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-16-9) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.186 ALTERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; BUMPER HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in the state if it has been
modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that its
bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper
bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits specified
herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and rear bumper
height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or
less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31 inches. In the
absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been altered or
modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail. If
a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least three inches in
vertical width, centered on the centerline of the motor vehicle and not less
than the width of the wheel track distance. The provisions of this division (A)
do not apply to motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds. For the purpose of this division (A), the term GROSS VEHICLE
WEIGHT RATINGS means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings
established for that vehicle.
   (B)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle frame
shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided, that the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame. No vehicle shall be modified to
cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose
the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact
with the body under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system
may be disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system.
Modification of the front end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly
prohibited.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy
duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits the operation on a public
street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system
if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (E)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of the municipality.
   (F)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in division (H) below.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in division (H)
below.
   (H)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle’s make and model,
but within the allowable limits of division (A) above, or any motor vehicle
which has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that vehicle’s
make and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to vehicle
frame, but within the allowable limits of division (B) above may be operated
upon a public street or highway in the municipality, subject to inspection
under W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48; provided, that any motor vehicle which has been
altered from the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the bumper height for
that vehicle make and model within the allowable limits of division (A) above
shall be exempt from the inspection requirements hereunder and may be operated
upon a public street or highway in the municipality subject to provisions of W.
Va. Code Art. 17C-16. Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on
crash report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the crash.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.187 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road, or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings, and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   A sun screening device, when used in conjunction with the windshield,
must be non-reflective and may not be red, yellow, or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a non-reflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   (a)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
         (b)   The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner
of each glazing surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (F)   (1)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in the state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in the state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section.
      (2)   The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so afflicted,
or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported in the
motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes, and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of, or permanently attached to, a
self-propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed either on
a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      NON-REFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather
than to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle, or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
§ 72.188 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   (1)   A person may not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street
or highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the term PASSENGER VEHICLE means
a motor vehicle which is designed for transporting 15 passengers or less,
including the driver, except that the term does not include a motorcycle, a
trailer or any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment
of this section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped
with a belt system.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after January 1, 1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (B)   The required use of safety belts as provided in this section does not
apply to a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States
Postal Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger, or
operator with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would
prevent appropriate restraint in the safety belt if the condition is duly
certified by a physician who states the nature of the disability as well as the
reason such restraint is inappropriate.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary,
no points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (D)   This section does not abrogate or alter the provisions of §
72.184 relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49)
COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 72.200 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle, or combination of
vehicles, of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in W. Va. Code Art. 17C-17 upon any state route within the
municipality, except pursuant to special written permit issued by the
Commissioner of Highways, or upon any local truck route.
         (b)   Every such permit shall be carried in the vehicle or combination
of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license, or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Use of local streets.
      (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as specified in
§
72.202 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a
designated truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to
that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (C)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in division (A) above.
      (3)   (a)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round
trip, or for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief,
in his or her discretion, deems advisable, or for the duration of any
construction project.
         (b)   The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed, or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health, and safety.
         (c)   The Police Chief may require the posting of bond or other
security necessary to compensate for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “No thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms, or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
72.999.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.201 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle, nor extending more than six inches beyond the line
of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (B)   A motor home, travel trailer, or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
72.202 if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.202 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices, or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (C) or in division (D)
below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more than
two units, and no combination of vehicles, including any load thereon, shall
have an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55
feet, except as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise
provided in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W. Va. Code §
17C-17-5. The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may
not consist of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (D)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers, of 65 feet.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C), and (D)
above, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own motion
or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle length not
to exceed 70 feet.
   (F)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semi-trailer combinations and
truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation, and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest, and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways; and
further, as to other highways so designated by the State Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semi-trailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semi-trailer-trailer combination shall not exceed
48 feet in length, except where semi-trailers have an axle spacing of not more
than 37 feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of
the semi-trailer, such semi-trailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53
feet in length, and the maximum length of any semi-trailer or trailer operating
in a truck tractor-semi-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length,
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-semi-
trailer or truck tractor- semi-trailer-trailer combinations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (G)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code
Art. 17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a
minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (H)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2)
§ 72.203 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.204 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby, and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery, or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-7)
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
§ 72.215 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.216 DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.217 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   (A)   No more than three persons, including the operator, shall ride or be
permitted by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor
vehicle while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways
of the municipality.
   (B)   Provided, however, that the limitation of this section shall not apply
to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the occupancy of
four persons including the operator, and so designated on the registration card
by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-5) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.218 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride, nor shall the operator permit any passenger to
ride, on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being
operated on the streets or highways of the municipality.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-6) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.219 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, may not
follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm
or other emergency closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm or other emergency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9)
§ 72.220 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights, or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (A)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle, and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (B)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any non-divided highway or street, and 25
mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if changing lanes
would be impossible or unsafe.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
§ 72.221 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-10) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.222 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. Shall have the same meaning
as set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-6-4.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or non-law
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A FUNERAL HEARSE may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery, or other
location at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held,
including a funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (B)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (B)(3) below, shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a funeral
escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         (b)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         (c)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (C)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law, or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (D)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury, or property
damage suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession
may not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment, or their
employees or agents, unless the death, personal injury, or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment, or their employees or agents.
   (E)   Equipment. All non-law enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral
lead vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing
lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens. Flashing amber or purple
lights may be used when such vehicles are used in a funeral procession.
(W. Va. Code Art. 17C-23)
§ 72.223 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.224 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.225 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designated or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.226 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle, and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking, or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling.”
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.227 TAKING, INJURING, TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without consent
of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner of his
or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the vehicle. The
consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall not in any
case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a previous
occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a different
person. Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in, any such unauthorized taking or driving shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-4)
   (B)   (1)   No person, either individually or in association with one or
more persons, shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or
remove any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
      (2)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury, or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes, or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended, or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-6)
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.228 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN, CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.229 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
   (C)   It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine, or
both.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.230 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley, or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.231 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.232 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or any
part thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.233 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle on any
street or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free
flow of motor vehicle traffic, except in compliance with a lawful order of a
police officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal, or
marking.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.234 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code Art. 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such article, unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 17D-2A,
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.235 LITTERING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw, or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped, or thrown, any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street, or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state or within 100 feet of
the waters of the state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LITTER means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof, or any other offensive or unsightly matter,
but not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging,
sawmilling, farming, or manufacturing.
   (C)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it cannot be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-14) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.236 ELECTRONICALLY DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMARTWATCH. A wearable computer that provides a local touchscreen for
daily use, associated with applications, and connected to a cellular or Wi-Fi
network.
      STAND-ALONE ELECTRONIC DEVICE. A portable device other than a wireless
telecommunications device which stores audio or video data files to be
retrieved on demand by a user.
      UTILITY SERVICES. Includes electric, natural gas, water, wastewater,
cable, telephone or telecommunications services, or the repair, location,
relocation, improvement, or maintenance of utility poles, transmission
structures, pipes, wires, fibers, cables, easements, rights-of-way, or
associated infrastructure.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
         (a)   One of the following portable devices:
            1.   A cellular telephone;
            2.   A portable telephone;
            3.   A text-messaging device;
            4.   A personal digital assistant;
            5.   A stand-alone computer including, but not limited to, a
tablet, laptop, or notebook computer;
            6.   A handheld global positioning system receiver;
            7.   A device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image, or visual image; and/or
            8.   Any substantially similar portable wireless device that is
used to initiate or receive communication, information, or data.
         (b)   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a
smartwatch; any type of radio, including, but not limited to, radios used by
first responders or school bus operators; citizens band radio or radio hybrid;
commercial two-way radio communication device or its functional equivalent;
subscription-based emergency communication device; prescribed medical device;
amateur or ham radio device; or any built-in vehicle equipment for security,
navigation, communications, or remote diagnostics.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use a wireless telecommunications device without the
use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the feature or
function with a single touch or single swipe.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device or two-way radio while loading or unloading
passengers.
      (2)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device while the bus is in motion nor while stationary in
traffic nor at a traffic control signal, unless that device is being used in a
similar manner as a two-way radio to allow live communication between the
driver and school officials or public safety officials.
   (C)   A driver shall exercise due care in operating a motor vehicle on the
highways of the state and shall not engage in any actions involving any stand-
alone electronic device or wireless telecommunications device that distracts
such driver from the safe operation of the vehicle.
   (D)   While operating a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property
open to the public for vehicular traffic in the state, no driver may:   
      (1)   Physically hold or support, with any part of his or her body, a
wireless communication device or stand-alone electronic device; provided, that
such prohibition shall not apply to the wearing of a smartwatch;
      (2)   Write, send, or read any text-based communication including, but
not limited to, a text message, instant message, e-mail, or social media
interaction on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device; provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to a voice-operated or
hands-free communication feature which is automatically converted by such
device to be sent as a message in a written form;
      (3)   Make any communication involving a wireless telecommunications
device, including a phone call, voice message, or one-way voice communication;
provided, that, such prohibition shall not apply to a voice operated or hands-
free communication feature or function;
      (4)   Engage in any form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data
communication on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device;
      (5)   Manually enter letters, numbers, or symbols into any website,
search engine, or application on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-
alone electronic device;
      (6)   Watch a video or movie on a wireless telecommunications device or
stand-alone electronic device, other than watching data related to the
navigation of such vehicle;
      (7)   Record, post, send, or broadcast video, including a video
conference on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device; provided, that such prohibition does not apply to electronic devices
used for the sole purpose of continuously recording or broadcasting video
within or outside of the motor vehicle; or
      (8)   Actively play any game on a wireless telecommunications device or
stand-alone electronic device.
   (E)   While operating a commercial motor vehicle on any highway of the
state, no driver may:
      (1)   Use more than a single button on a wireless telecommunications
device to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      (2)   Reach for a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone
electronic device in such a manner that requires the driver to:
         (a)   No longer be in a seated driving position; or
         (b)   No longer be properly restrained by a safety belt.
   (F)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   The Department of Transportation shall cause to be erected signs upon
any highway entering the state on which a “Welcome to West Virginia” sign is
posted, and any other highway where the Division of Highways deems appropriate,
posted at a distance of not more than one mile from each border crossing, each
sign to bear an inscription clearly communicating to motorists entering the
state that texting, or the use of a wireless communication device without
hands-free equipment, is illegal within the state.
   (H)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
   (I)   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance
shall contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment
of any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this section, as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
   (J)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Drivers reporting to state, county, or local authorities a traffic
accident, medical emergency, fire, an actual or potential criminal or
delinquent act, or a road condition that causes an immediate and serious
traffic or safety hazard;
      (2)   An employee or contractor of a utility services provider acting
within the scope of his or her employment while responding to a utility
emergency;
      (3)   A driver operating a commercial vehicle while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (4)   A law enforcement officer, firefighter, emergency medical services
personnel, ambulance driver, or other similarly employed public safety first
responder during the performance of his or her official duties; or
      (5)   While in a motor vehicle that is lawfully parked.
   (K)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-
3a or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor vehicles
prescribed either by the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17E-1-1 et seq. or by
federal law or rule.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15) Penalty, see §
72.999
LICENSING GENERALLY
§ 72.250 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, and no owner shall knowingly permit to
be driven or moved, upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required
to be registered under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A which is not registered or for which
a certificate of title has not been issued or applied for, or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein.
   (B)   (1)   Provided, that in the event of the sale of a vehicle by a person
other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the same may, for a
period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under the registration
of its previous owner and display the registration thereof.
      (2)   Provided further, that he or she shall have and display on the
demand of any proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so
to use such registration.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.251 REGISTRATION CARD.
   (A)   Every such registration card shall at all times be carried in the
vehicle to which it refers, or shall be carried by the person driving or in
control of such vehicle who shall display the same upon demand of a police
officer or any officer or employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Carrying and displaying an electronic or mobile registration card
issued by the division satisfies the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-13) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.252 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof, except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible, and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration as defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1,
may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-15)
§ 72.253 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon, or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this traffic code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year, except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Ch. 17A.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally
issued are lost, destroyed, or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or
plates, showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the
owner for a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are
issued by the Department, whichever is earlier.
      (2)   Provided, that no such facsimile shall be used and no such vehicle
shall be driven upon the streets or highways of the municipality until the
owner has notified in writing the State Police of the loss of such registration
plate or plates.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.254 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE, PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate, or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates, or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.255 DRIVER, MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, may
drive a motor vehicle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon any
subdivision street used by the public generally unless the person has a valid
driver’s license issued pursuant to the state code for the type or class of
vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle pursuant to the
state code may exercise the privilege thereby granted in the manner provided in
the state code and, except as otherwise provided by law, is not required to
obtain any other license to exercise the privilege by a county, municipality,
or local board or body having authority to adopt local police regulations.
   (B)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, may drive a
motorcycle on a street or highway in the municipality or on a subdivision
street used by the public generally unless the person has a valid motorcycle
license, a valid license which has been endorsed under W. Va. Code § 17B-2-7b
for motorcycle operation, or has a valid motorcycle instruction permit.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1)
§ 72.256 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
72.255:
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country, unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of the
state, may operate a motor vehicle in the state only as a non-commercial driver
for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (C)   (1)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the
person’s immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in
the person’s home state or country, and who is employed in the state, or owns,
maintains, or operates a place or places of business in the state, or engages
in any trade, profession, or occupation in the state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (B) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of the state, may operate a motor vehicle in the state
only as a non-commercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s place or
places of employment, place, or places of business, or place or places at which
the person engages in the trade, profession, or occupation and in the discharge
of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade, profession, or
occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a resident of the state
over the age of 18 years of age, the resident would not be required under the
provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17 to obtain a Class A, B, C, or D driver’s
license.
      (2)   However, this division (C) shall not exempt any person who is
required to obtain a state driver’s license in accordance with the provisions
of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1a;
   (D)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of Pub. Law No. 99-
570, being Stat. 3207-171, and unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privilege to a resident of the
state may operate a motor vehicle in the state either as a commercial driver,
subject to the age limits applicable to commercial driver in the state, or as a
non-commercial driver, subject to the limitations imposed on non-resident
drivers in divisions (B) and (C) above; and
   (E)   (1)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in
an accredited school, college, or university in the state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (B) and (C) above, may operate motor vehicles in the
state only as non-commercial driver; provided, that the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of this
state.
      (2)   This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college, or university, or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-2)
§ 72.257 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle, and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer, or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   However, no person charged with violating this section shall be
convicted if such person produces in court, or the office of the arresting
officer, a driver’s license theretofor issued to such person and valid at the
time of such person’s arrest.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-9) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.258 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display, or cause or permit to be displayed, or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, or non-operator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or non-
operator’s identification, to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, or non-operator’s identification, not issued to him or her;
   (D)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, or non-operator’s identification, or knowingly
make a false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact, or otherwise
commit a fraud in any such application;
   (E)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license,
or non-operator’s identification, issued to him or her; or
   (F)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
traffic code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.259 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of the
municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been lawfully
suspended or revoked.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.260 OWNER, OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
§ 72.275 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol, and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port, or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed, or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute for malt;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol,
ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures
thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W. Va. Code Art. 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17E-1-9(d).
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport 16 or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials as
defined in this section.
   CONVICTION.
      (1)   An unvacated adjudication of guilt;
      (2)   A determination that a person has violated or failed to comply with
the law in a court of original jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative
tribunal or proceeding;
      (3)   An unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure
the person’s appearance in court;
      (4)   A plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court or the
payment of a fine or court cost; or
      (5)   Violation of a condition of release without bail regardless of
whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended, or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following three actions:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a driver’s license
by the state or jurisdiction of issuance.
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control, other than parking or
vehicle weight, except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations.
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391 (2004).
   DRIVE.
      (1)   To drive, operate, or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in
any place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   For purposes of §
72.280, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle
anywhere in the municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE. Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including full-time,
regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent, or occasional drivers; leased
drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors (while in the course of
operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly employed by or
under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the United States, a state, or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. Includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to
the farm owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively in the
transportation of the following items from the farm or orchard on which they
are raised or produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses,
canneries, railway shipping points, and cold storage plants, and in the
transportation of agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such
farms or orchards to be used thereon:
      (1)   Agricultural or horticultural products;
      (2)   Livestock;
      (3)   Poultry; and
      (4)   Dairy products.
   FARMER. Includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or person in control of
the premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits, who
is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, who is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed
driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement officer, an
authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian, Mexican, county,
or local jurisdiction, including any special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72, 392.5, 395.13, 396.9, or
compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-service criteria that an
imminent hazard exists.
   VIOLATION OF AN OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out of service;
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out of service and before the required repairs are made; or
      (3)   The operation of any commercial vehicle by a motor carrier
operation after the carrier has been placed out of service.
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into or reading text from an
electronic device.
      (1)   This action includes, but is not limited to, short messaging
service, e-mailing, instant messaging, and a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry for present or future communication.
      (2)   TEXTING does not include:
         (a)   Reading, selecting, or entering a telephone number, an extension
number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device for
the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call or using voice commands to
initiate or receive a telephone call;
         (b)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         (c)   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions
including, but not limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices,
smart phones, citizen band radios, or music players for a purpose that is not
otherwise prohibited by this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4)
§ 72.276 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver’s license at one time.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.277 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W. Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (B)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit, require, or authorize a
driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which the
driver:
      (1)   Has a driver’s license suspended, revoked, or canceled by a state;
has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle in a state, or has
been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Has more than one driver’s license at one time;
      (3)   The commercial motor vehicle he or she is driving or the motor
carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order;
      (4)   Is in violation of federal, state, or local law or regulation
pertaining to railroad highway grade crossings; or
      (5)   Is in violation of any provision of 49 C.F.R. part 382 related to
controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
   (C)   No employer may require or allow a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle while texting. (W. Va. Code § 17E-1-6)
§ 72.278 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle they are driving.
   (B)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while their driving
privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (C)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle shall have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-7) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.279 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this subchapter only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, or farm supplies to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (B)   Military personnel. Active duty military personnel operating vehicles
being used for military purposes are exempted from the provisions of this
subchapter in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R. § 383.3(c) (2006).
   (C)   Firefighting and rescue equipment. Operators of vehicles authorized to
hold an authorized emergency vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only
are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter while the authorized
emergency vehicle permit is in force. Vehicles in this class include, but are
not limited to, firefighters, and rescue equipment:
      (1)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal fire
departments;
      (2)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal civil defense
organizations;
      (3)   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of business
that requires firefighter equipment to protect the safety of their plants and
its employees; and/or
      (4)   Owned and operated by volunteer fire departments.
   (D)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment. Operators of
equipment which, by its design, appearance, and function is not intended for
use on a public road, including, without limitation, motorscrapers, backhoes,
motorgraders, compactors, excavators, tractors, trenches, and bulldozers, are
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter; provided, that the exemption
recognized by this division (D) shall not be construed to permit the operation
of such equipment on any public road, except such operation as may be required
for a crossing of such road; provided, however, that no such equipment may be
operated on a public road for a distance exceeding 500 feet from the place
where such equipment entered upon the public road.
   (E)   Exempt vehicles. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of
1999, being Pub. Law No. 106-159, exempts vehicles used exclusively for
personal use such as recreation vehicles and rental trucks used only to
transport the driver’s personal or household property.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-8)
§ 72.280 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   A person who violates the provisions of §
72.999(O)(2) shall be treated in the same manner set forth in W. Va. Code §
17C-19-3, as if he or she had been arrested for driving under the influence of
alcohol or of any controlled substance.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the state code or these
codified ordinances, a person who drives, operates, or is in physical control
of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such person’s
system or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine such
person’s blood alcohol content, as provided by W. Va. Code § 17E-1-15, shall be
placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14)
§ 72.281 COMMERCIAL DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM TEXTING.
   (A)   No commercial driver may engage in texting while driving a commercial
motor vehicle.
   (B)   No motor carrier may allow or require its drivers to engage in texting
while driving a commercial motor vehicle.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section only, and unless a more restrictive
prohibition is prescribed in the state code, DRIVING means operating a
commercial motor vehicle with the motor running, including while temporarily
stationed because of traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary
delays. DRIVING does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or
without the motor running when the driver moved the vehicle to the side of or
off a highway, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5, and halted in a location where
the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14(a)) Penalty, see §
72.999
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.295 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR ATV. Any motor vehicle, designed for off-highway
use and designed to travel on not less than three low-pressure tires, having a
seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control and intended by the manufacturer to be used by a single
operator or by an operator and no more than one passenger.
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle manufactured with no more than two wheels
and having a seat or a saddle for the use of the operator.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for off-highway use and includes
all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and off-road
vehicles.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle that is suitable for off-road use. It
includes a four-wheel drive vehicle such as a Jeep, pickup, or sport utility
vehicle. It also includes a specially designed, modified, or customized off-
road vehicle that is of a similar size to a vehicle manufactured for highway
use.
      UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with four or more low-pressure
tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating for each
occupant and a steering wheel for control.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES and VEHICLE, or the
plural, mean all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles, and
off-highway vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-9)
§ 72.296 ACTS PROHIBITED BY OPERATOR.
   (A)   No all-terrain vehicle may be operated in the municipality:
      (1)   On any interstate highway, except by public safety personnel
responding to emergencies;
      (2)   On any road or highway with a centerline or more than two lanes,
except for the purpose of crossing the road, street, or highway, if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         (c)   The operator yields his or her right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (d)   Both the headlight and taillight are illuminated when the
crossing is made if the vehicle is so equipped.
      (3)   With more than one passenger, unless more passengers are allowed
under manufacturers’ recommendations;
      (4)   With a passenger under the age of 18, unless the operator has at a
minimum a level of two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or is 18
years of age or older;
      (5)   Unless riders under the age of 18 are wearing size appropriate
protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications established
by the American National Standards Institute Standard Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, or
Snell Safety Standards for protective headgear for vehicle users;
      (6)   Anytime from sunset to sunrise without an illuminated headlight or
lights and taillights;
      (7)   Without a manufacturer-installed or equivalent spark arrester and a
manufacturer-installed or equivalent muffler in proper working order and
properly connected to the vehicle’s exhaust system; or
      (8)   Unless operating in compliance with the provisions of §
72.297.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated upon the shoulder, or as far to
the right on the pavement as possible when there is not enough shoulder to
safely operate, on any road, street, or highway referred to in division (A)(2)
above, other than an interstate highway for a distance not to exceed ten miles,
to travel between a residence or lodging and off-road trails, fields, and areas
of operation, including stops for food, fuel, supplies, and restrooms, if:
      (1)   The vehicle is operated at speeds of 25 mph or less; and
      (2)   The vehicle is operated at any time from sunset to sunrise then the
all-terrain vehicle must be equipped with headlights and taillights which must
be illuminated.
   (C)   Operation of an all-terrain vehicle in accordance with division (B)
above shall not constitute operation of a motor vehicle on a road or highway of
the municipality as contemplated by the provisions of §
72.301.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter to the contrary, the
municipality may authorize the operation of all-terrain vehicles on certain
specified roads, streets, or highways which are marked with centerline pavement
markings, other than interstate highways, to allow participation in parades,
exhibitions, and other special events, in emergencies, or for specified
purposes.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-1) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.297 SAFETY AWARENESS COURSES.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 2005, no person under the age of 18 may
operate an all-terrain vehicle without a certificate of completion of a vehicle
rider awareness course as offered or approved by the Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above do not apply to the operation of
an all-terrain vehicle on any private or public recreational trail or area, or
affiliated trail or area, operated by any person or entity which has in place a
safety program.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-2) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.298 RENTAL DEALERS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   Any person or entity renting or leasing all-terrain vehicles for
recreational purposes must provide protective helmets, as defined by the
provisions of §
72.296(A)(5), to all persons using such vehicles who are under the age of 18
and offer protective helmets to all persons 18 and older using the rented or
leased vehicles; provided, that for the provisions of this section to be
applicable, the age and identity of the users of the all-terrain vehicle must
be disclosed to the person or entity providing the rented or leased vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-4) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.299 PRIVATE PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
   Except as provided by the provisions of §
72.296(A)(3) through (A)(5), and except as provided by the provisions of §
72.297, the provisions of this subchapter do not apply if the all-terrain
vehicle is operated exclusively on lands owned or leased by the vehicle owner,
or on private lands of others with the owner’s permission.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-5)
§ 72.300 EXEMPTION FROM FARM, COMMERCIAL USE; CURRENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by the provisions of §
72.296(A)(4) and (A)(5), nothing in this subchapter may be construed to
preclude or limit the use or operation of all-terrain vehicles for lawful non-
recreational commercial purposes, including, but not limited to, farm use, oil
and gas operations, timbering, surveying, and public utilities access.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter may be construed to supersede or contravene
the provisions of any agreement between the state and any private or
governmental entity entered into prior to the effective date of this
subchapter, or any lawfully promulgated legislative rule, including any
emergency legislative rule, regulating the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-6)
§ 72.301 APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road or
highway of the municipality shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and this
traffic code, except:
      (1)   Where inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (2)   Except as to those provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and this
traffic code which, by their nature, can have no application.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, a motor vehicle
operator’s license is not required of an operator of an all-terrain vehicle
when he or she is operating said vehicle in conformity with the provisions of §
72.296(A)(2) or (B), except when the operator is under the age of 18 and is
transporting a passenger under the age of 18.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-7)
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES AND DEVICES
§ 72.315 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE CARRIER. An electrically powered device that:
      (1)    Is operated on sidewalks and crosswalks and is intended primarily
for transporting property;
      (2)    Weighs less than 100 pounds, excluding cargo;
      (3)    Has a maximum speed of 12.5 mph; and
      (4)    Is equipped with a technology to transport personal property with
the active monitoring of a property owner and primarily designed to remain
within 25 feet of the property owner.
   PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE.
      (1)   An electrically powered device that:
         (a)   Is operated on sidewalks, and crosswalks and roadways, and is
intended primarily for transporting goods and cargo;
         (b)   Is equipped with technology to allow for operation of the device
with or without the active control or monitoring of a natural person; and
         (c)   A personal delivery device is not considered a vehicle unless
expressly defined by law as a vehicle.
      (2)   A mobile carrier is not considered a PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-24-1)
§ 72.316 RULES FOR PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICES AND MOBILE CARRIERS.
   (A)   (1)   A personal delivery device or mobile carrier may operate on
sidewalks and crosswalks.
      (2)   A personal delivery device or mobile carrier operating on a
sidewalk or crosswalk has all the rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian
under the same circumstances, except that the personal delivery device or
mobile carrier shall not unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic,
and shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians on the sidewalk or crosswalk.
   (B)   Personal delivery devices and mobile carriers shall:
      (1)   Obey all official traffic and pedestrian control signals and
devices;
      (2)   For personal delivery devices, include a plate or marker that has a
unique identifying device number and identifies the name and contact
information of the personal delivery device operator; and
      (3)   Be equipped with a braking system that, when active or engaged,
enables the personal delivery device or mobile carrier to come to a controlled
stop.
   (C)   Mobile carriers shall not:
      (1)   Operate on a public highway, except to the extent necessary to
cross a crosswalk;
      (2)   Operate on a sidewalk or crosswalk unless the mobile carrier owner
is actively controlling or monitoring the navigation and remains within 25 feet
of the mobile carrier;
      (3)   Transport hazardous materials as defined in R.S.A. 259:40; or
      (4)   Transport persons or animals.
   (D)   Personal delivery devices shall not:
      (1)   Operate at speeds in excess of 12 mph on sidewalks;
      (2)   Operate at speeds in excess of 20 mph on roadways;
      (3)   Operate unless the navigation and operation is being monitored or
controlled by an operator; or
      (4)   Transport hazardous materials that are regulated under the
Hazardous Materials Transportation Authorization Act of 1994 (49 U.S.C. §§ 5101
through 5128) and must be placarded under 49 C.F.R. §§ 172.500 through 172.560.
   (E)   A local authority may not regulate the operation of a personal
delivery device on a highway or sidewalk in a manner that is inconsistent with
this subchapter, including, but not limited to, restricting the hours or zones
of operation.
   (F)   A person who owns and operates a personal delivery device in the state
shall maintain an insurance policy, on behalf of himself or herself and his or
her agents, which provides general liability coverage of at least $100,000 for
damages arising from the combined operations of personal delivery devices under
the entity’s or agent’s control.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-24-2)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.001 after being involved in a crash resulting in physical injury but not
death to any person shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or fined not
more than $1,000, or both
      (2)   Any driver who is involved in a crash in which another person
suffers bodily injury and who intentionally violates §
72.001(A) when he or she knows or has reason to believe that another person has
suffered physical injury in said crash shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B)(2) above, any driver
who is involved in a crash in which another person suffers serious bodily
injury and who intentionally violates §
72.001(A) when he or she knows or has reason to believe that another person has
suffered physical injury in said crash is guilty of a felony and shall be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) or (B)(3) above, any driver who is
involved in a crash that proximately causes the death of another person who
intentionally violates §
72.001(A) above when he or she knows or has reason to believe that another
person has suffered physical injury in said crash is guilty of a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1)
   (C)   Any person failing to stop or comply with such requirements under such
circumstances as outlined in §
72.002 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-2)
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any person who drives a vehicle in the municipality while
he or she is in an impaired state, and such impaired state proximately causes a
bodily injury to any person other than himself or herself, as described in §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not less than one day nor more than one year, and shall be
fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000, and shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for a period of two years or for a period of time conditioned
on participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the person has previously been convicted under §
72.020, the person shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle
revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for life or for a
period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in
accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a.
         (b)   Any jail term imposed pursuant to this division (D) shall
include actual confinement of not less than 24 hours; provided, however, that a
person sentenced pursuant to this division (D)(1) shall receive credit for any
period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject
offense.
      (2)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private
road in the municipality who does any of the following, along with the
provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be
confined in jail for up to six months and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle
revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of
six months or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and
lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that a
person sentenced pursuant to this division (D) shall receive credit for any
period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject
offense:
         (a)   While he or she is in an impaired state; or
         (b)   While he or she is in an impaired state, but has an alcohol
concentration in his or her blood of less than 0.0015% by weight.
      (3)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private
road in the municipality while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or
her blood of 0.0015% or more, by weight, along with the provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not less than two days nor more than six months, which
jail term is to include actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall
be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000, and shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or for a period of time conditioned
on participation in the test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (D)(3) shall receive
credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for
the subject offense.
      (4)   Any person who, being a habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamines, or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle on any public highway
or private road in the state, along with the provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not less than one day nor more than six months, which jail
term is to include actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have his or her license
to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor
Vehicles for a period of six months. A person sentenced pursuant to this
division (D)(4) shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or
she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
      (5)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in the municipality by any other person who
is in an impaired state, along with the provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a
period of six months or for a period of time conditioned on participation in
the test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a.
      (6)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in the municipality by any other person who
is a habitual user of narcotic drugs or amphetamines, or any derivative
thereof, along with the provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500 and shall have his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a
period of six months.
      (7)   (a)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle on
any public highway or private road in the municipality while he or she has an
alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.0002% or more, by weight, but
less than 0.0008%, by weight, for a first offense under this division (D)(7),
along with the provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $100, and have his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle suspended by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles
for a period of 60 days or for a period of time conditioned on participation in
the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. For a
second or subsequent offense under this division (D)(7), the person is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for 24
hours and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or until the person’s
twenty-first birthday, whichever period is longer, or for a period of time
conditioned on participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W.
Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. A person who is charged with a first offense under the
provisions of this division (D)(7) may move for a continuance of the
proceedings, from time to time, to allow the person to participate in the Test
and Lock Program as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Upon successful
completion of the program, the court shall dismiss the charge against the
person and expunge the person’s record as it relates to the alleged offense. In
the event the person fails to successfully complete the program, the court
shall proceed to an adjudication of the alleged offense. A motion for a
continuance under this division (D)(7) may not be construed as an admission or
be used as evidence.
         (b)   1.   Notwithstanding division (D)(7)(a) above, a person shall
have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle suspended or revoked for a
minimum period of one year or for a period of time conditioned on participation
in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a, if the
person:
               a.   Has previously been convicted under this division (D)(7)
and is subsequently convicted of an offense under another division of this
division (D); or
               b.   Is convicted under this division (D)(7) and has previously
been convicted of an offense under this division (D).
            2.   Nothing in this division (D)(7)(b) permits a shorter period of
license revocation, license suspension, or participation in the Test and Lock
Program than is mandatory for the specific offense for which the person is
convicted.
         (c)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the
provisions of this division (D) or divisions (D)(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4),
(D)(5), or (D)(6) above may not also be charged with an offense under this
division (D)(7) arising out of the same transaction or occurrence.
      (8)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private
road in the municipality while he or she is in an impaired state and has within
the vehicle one or more persons who are unemancipated minors who have not yet
reached their sixteenth birthday, along with the provisions of §
72.020, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not less than two days nor more than 12 months, and shall
be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000, and shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or for a period of time conditioned
on participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a; provided, that such jail term shall include actual confinement of
not less than 48 hours; provided, however, that a person sentenced pursuant to
this division (D)(8) shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement
he or she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
      (9)   (a)   A person convicted of an offense under §
72.020 who has previously been convicted of any offense under this division (D)
on one occasion is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be confined in jail for not less than six months nor more than one year, may be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000, and shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for ten years or for a period of time conditioned on
participation in the Test and Lock Program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A- 3a; provided, that if the second conviction is for an offense as
described in division (D)(1) above and the division creating the offense
requires a period of incarceration, period of license revocation, or fine that
is greater than what is required for a conviction under this division (D)(9),
the greater period of incarceration, period of revocation, or fine shall be
imposed; provided, however, that this division (D)(9) does not apply to a
second conviction that is subject to a period of license revocation under
division (D)(7) above.
         (b)   For purposes of division (D)(9)(a) above relating to second
offenses, the following events shall be regarded as offenses and convictions
under this division (D):
            1.   Any conviction under the provisions of divisions (D)(1), (D)
(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), or (D)(6) above, or under a prior enactment of
this division (D), for an offense which occurred within the ten-year period
immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current proceeding;
            2.   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of the state or any
other state, or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in divisions (D)
(1), (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), or (D)(6) above, which offense occurred
within the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the
current proceeding; and
            3.   Any period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17C-5-2b for violation of division (D)(2) above, which violation
occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in
the current proceeding.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2)
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.022 shall, for a first offense, be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$500, or imprisoned not less than five nor more than 30 days; for a second or
subsequent offense, shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $1,000, or
imprisoned not less than ten nor more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (E)(1) above, any person
convicted of a violation of §
72.022 who, in doing so, proximately causes another to suffer serious bodily
injury shall be confined in jail not less than ten days nor more than 30 days,
or fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or both.
      (3)   For purposes of division (E)(2) above, SERIOUS BODILY INJURY means
bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which causes serious
or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health or prolonged loss,
or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.035 through
72.037 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-3)
   (G)   (1)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.050 through
72.055 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   Speeding.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (G)(2), any person
who violates the provisions of §
72.050 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$500; provided, that if such third or subsequent conviction is based upon a
violation of the provisions of §
72.050 where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more, then the
person shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
that if such conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more in
the presence of one or more children, then the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both;
provided, that if the signage required by §
72.050(B)(1) is not present in the school zone at the time of the violation,
then any person who violates said provision shall be fined not more than $25.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1)
      (3)   Street racing.
         (a)   Whoever violates §
72.053 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100; for a second
offense, fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense, fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   For the purposes of §
72.053, a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure such person’s
appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent
to a final conviction.
         (c)   If, at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
72.053 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in the state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in the state if such person be a
non-resident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
72.254 shall be applicable.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8)
      (4)   Waste service vehicles. Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.055 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $300. If the person
convicted of violating §
72.055 exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more or caused serious injury or
death to a service vehicle worker, then the person shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $1,000, or confined in jail for not more than 30 days, or
both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11)
   (H)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.070 through
72.081 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (I)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.095 through
72.104 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (J)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.115 through
72.120 shall be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $300; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-6)
   (K)   (1)   Commercial driver’s license. Any person driving a vehicle
specified in §
72.137 or a vehicle that requires a commercial driver’s license who fails to
comply with the requirements of §
72.137 is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that if the electric or mechanical
signal device is malfunctioning, this division (K)(1) shall not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3)
      (2)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever
violates §
72.140 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (3)   Stopping for school bus. Any driver acting in violation of §
72.141(A) for a first offense, shall be fined not less than $500 or more than
$1,000, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
Upon conviction of a second violation of §
72.141(A), the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500,
or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined. Upon
conviction of a third or subsequent violation of §
72.141(A), the driver shall be fined $2,000 and confined not less than 48 hours
in jail but not more than 30 days.
      (4)   Stopping for passenger van. Any driver acting in violation of §
72.142(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §
72.142(B) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this traffic code to the contrary.
   (L)   (1)   General penalty. Unless otherwise provided for in §§
72.155 through
72.188, any person violating any provision of §§
72.155 through
72.188 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Brakes. Any person violating §§
72.173 or
72.174 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-6)
      (3)   Child passenger safety devices.
         (a)   Any person who violates any provision of §
72.184 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
         (b)   A violation of §
72.184 does not by virtue of the violation constitute evidence of negligence or
contributory negligence, or comparative negligence, in any civil action or
proceeding for damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46)
      (4)   Sun screening devices. Whoever violates §
72.187 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
      (5)   Safety belts.
         (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.188 shall be fined not more than $25. No court costs or other fees shall be
assessed for a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49)
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.188 shall be fined $25. No court costs or other fees may be assessed for a
violation of §
72.188.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49)
   (M)   (1)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.215 through
72.236 for which no other penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   Authorized emergency vehicles.
         (a)   Any person who violates §
72.220 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both fined and imprisoned.
         (b)   If violation of §
72.220 results in property damage in addition to any other penalty imposed,
driving privileges of the persons causing the property damage shall be
suspended for 90 days.
         (c)   If violation of §
72.220 results in injury to another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the injury shall be
suspended for six months.
         (d)   If violation of §
72.220 results in the death of another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the death shall be
suspended for two years.
         (e)   Any person who violates §
72.220 and while doing so also violates §
72.020 shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
      (3)   Taking, injuring, or tampering with vehicle. Whoever violates §
72.227 shall, for a first offense, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-11-1)
      (4)   Vehicle security. Whoever violates §
72.234 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000, or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17D-2A-9)
      (5)   Electronic communication devices.
         (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.236 is guilty of a traffic offense and shall, for a first offense, be fined
$100; for a second offense, be fined $200; and for a third or subsequent
offense, be fined $300. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a
violation of §
72.236.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the
contrary, points may not be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of §
72.236, except for the third and subsequent convictions of the offense, for
which three points shall be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
         (c)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or
highway while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense. Driving or
operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while using a cell
phone or other electronic communication device without hands-free equipment
shall be enforced as a secondary offense until July 1, 2013, when it shall be
enforced as a primary offense for purposes of citation.
         (d)   Nothing contained in §
72.236 shall be construed to authorize seizure of a cell phone or electronic
device by any law enforcement agency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15)
   (N)   (1)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.250 through
72.260 for which no other penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than
$500; for a second or subsequent violation of the same provision such person,
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Driving under suspension or revocation.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3(b) or (d),
or divisions (N)(2)(b) or (N)(2)(c) below, whoever drives a motor vehicle on
any street or highway of the municipality at a time when his or her privilege
so to do has been lawfully suspended or revoked shall, for the first offense,
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, such
person shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the third or
any subsequent offense, such person shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days
and, in addition to such mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than
$150 nor more than $500. A record of the conviction of any person under this
division (N) upon a charge of driving a vehicle while the license of such
person was suspended lawfully shall be sent to the State Department of Motor
Vehicles.
         (b)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or other drugs, or any
combination thereof, or for driving while having an alcoholic concentration in
his or her blood of 0.0008% or more, by weight, or for refusing to take a
secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, for the first offense shall
be imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, shall be
imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.0002% or more, by weight, but less than 0.0008%, by weight, shall be
imprisoned for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500,
or both; for the second offense, the person shall be confined in jail for a
period of 30 days, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500;
for the third or any subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the
provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to
any period of incarceration required by this division (N).
      (3)   Additional penalties. Whoever violates §§
72.251,
72.252,
72.254,
72.258, or
72.260 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (O)   (1)   Unless another penalty is provided in §§
72.275 through
72.281, whoever violates any provision of §§
72.275 through
72.281 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned
for not more than 30 days, or both, except that for the second violation of §
72.278, the offender shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third or any subsequent
conviction for violation of §
72.278, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,500,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-25)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the state code or
these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates, or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in
his or her blood, breath, or urine of 0.0004% or more, by weight, as state in §
72.280, shall be imprisoned for not less than 24 hours nor more than 30 days,
and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person convicted of
a second or any subsequent offense under the provisions of this division (O)
shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days, and the court may, in its
discretion, impose a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14)
   (P)   (1)   Except as provided in the provisions of division (P)(2) below
and in addition to any other legal remedy for violation of civil or criminal
provisions of this chapter, any person who violates the provisions of §§
72.295 through
72.301 or who owns or has control over an all-terrain vehicle and knowingly
permits it to be used in violation of the provisions of §§
72.295 through
72.301 shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   Any parent, legal guardian, or person who has actual responsibility
for a child under 18 years of age who knows or should have known the child is
operating or is a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle without a helmet, as
required by the provisions of §
72.296, shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   For a first offense, a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$100, or not more than ten hours of community service, or both;
         (b)   For a second offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$200, or not more than 20 hours of community service, or both;
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than $200
nor more than $500, or not more than 100 hours of community service, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17F-1-8)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
   
73.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
73.03   Prohibited stopping, standing, parking places
   
73.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
73.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
73.06   Accessible parking
   
73.07   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
73.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.09   Truck loading zones
   
73.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
73.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
73.12   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Impounding of abandoned vehicles, see §
70.21
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parallel and angle parking, see W. Va. Code § 17C-13-4
   Authority to regulate the standing or parking of vehicles, see W. Va. Code §
17C-2-8(a)(1)
§ 73.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence
district, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or
highway when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such
part of the street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the
street or highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be
available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or
street.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
73.01, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same to a position
off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway, or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-2)
§ 73.03 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (14)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (15)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing, or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (16)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (17)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (18)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (19)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking spaces; and/or
      (20)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park, or leave standing unattended
any vehicle on a private road or driveway, or on private property without
having express or implied permission from the owner, tenant, or lessee of such
land.
   (B)   The owner, tenant, or lessee of such private road or driveway or
private property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked, or left
standing unattended on his or her private road, driveway, or private property,
as above prohibited, without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle,
nor shall he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done
to such vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant, or lessee of such
private road or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or
authorizing the removal of the vehicle.
   (C)   The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the persons removing
such vehicle for paying all removal costs.
   (D)   Any person who removes any vehicle under the provisions of this
section shall notify the State Police of such action, and in addition, notify
the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-13) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case, the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to streets or parts thereof where
angle parking is lawfully permitted.
      (2)   However, no angle parking shall be permitted on a state or federal-
aid route unless approved by the State Commissioner of Highways.
   (C)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSIBLE PARKING. Formerly known as HANDICAPPED PARKING is the present
phrase consistent with language within the American with Disabilities Act
(ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. A facility whose operations affect commerce and
which are intended for non-residential use by a private entity.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. A person who is a citizen of the state and as
determined by a physician, allopath, or osteopath chiropractor, advanced nurse
practitioner, or physician’s assistant licensed to practice in the state:
         (a)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest;
         (b)   Cannot walk without the use of or assistance from a brace, cane,
crutch, prosthetic device, wheelchair, other assistive device, or another
person;
         (c)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the
person’s force (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
         (d)   Uses portable oxygen;
         (e)   Has a cardiac condition to such an extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV
according to standards established by the American Heart Association; or
         (f)   Is severely limited in his or her ability to walk because of an
arthritic, neurological, or other orthopedic physical condition.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL. Includes any law enforcement officer as
defined by W. Va. Code § 30-29-1, and private security guards, parking
personnel, and other personnel authorized by a city, county, or the state to
issue parking citations.
      PLACE(S) OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A facility or facilities operated by a
private entity whose operations affect commerce and fall within at least one of
the following categories:
         (a)   Inns, hotels, motels, and other places of lodging;
         (b)   Restaurants, bars, or other establishments serving food or
drink;
         (c)   Motion picture houses, theaters, concert halls, stadiums, or
other places of exhibition or entertainment;
         (d)   Auditoriums, convention centers, lecture halls, or other places
of public gatherings;
         (e)   Bakeries, grocery stores, clothing stores, hardware stores,
shopping centers, or other sales or rental establishments;
         (f)   Laundromats, dry cleaners, banks, barber, and beauty shops,
travel agencies, shoe repair shops, funeral parlors, gas or service stations,
offices of accountants and attorneys, pharmacies, insurance offices, offices of
professional health care providers, hospitals, or other service establishments;
         (g)   Terminals, depots, or other stations used for public
transportation;
         (h)   Museums, libraries, galleries, or other places of public display
or collection;
         (i)   Parks, zoos, amusement parks, or other places of recreation;
         (j)   Public or private nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate
or post-graduate schools, or other places of learning and day care centers,
senior citizen centers, homeless shelters, food banks, adoption agencies, or
other social service establishments; and
         (k)   Gymnasiums, health spas, bowling alleys, golf courses, or other
places of exercise or recreation.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. State or local government or any department, agency,
special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a state or local
government.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. All or any part of any buildings, structures, sites,
complexes, roads, parking lots, or other real or personal property, including
the site where the facility is located.
      REGULAR REGISTRATION FEE. The standard registration fee for a vehicle of
the same class as the applicant’s vehicle.
      REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD (PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY). A two-sided,
hanger style placard measuring three inches by nine and one-half inches, with
all of the following on each side:
         (a)   The international symbol of access, measuring at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, in white on a blue background for
permanent designations and in white on a red background for temporary
designations;
         (b)   An identification number measuring one inch in height;
         (c)   An expiration date in numbers measuring one inch in height for a
temporary placard; and
         (d)   The seal or other identifying symbol of the issuing authority.
      SPECIAL REGISTRATION PLATE. A registration plate that displays the
international symbol of access, as adopted by the Rehabilitation International
Organization in 1969 at its Eleventh World Congress on Rehabilitation of the
Disabled, in a color that contrasts with the background, in letters and numbers
the same size as those on the plate, and which may be used in lieu of a regular
registration plate.
   (B)   An accessible parking space should comply with the provisions of the
Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines, contained in 28
C.F.R. part 36, appendix A, § 4.6. In particular, the parking space should be a
minimum of eight feet wide with an adjacent eight-foot access aisle for vans
having side mounted hydraulic lifts or ramps, or a five-foot access aisle for
standard vehicles. Access aisles should be marked using diagonal two- to four-
inch-wide stripes spaced every 12 or 24 inches apart along with the words “no
parking” in painted letters which are at least 12 inches in height. All
accessible parking spaces should have a signpost in front or adjacent to the
accessible parking space displaying the international symbol of access sign
mounted at a minimum of eight feet above the pavement or sidewalk and the top
of the sign. Lines or markings on the pavement or curbs for parking spaces and
access aisles may be in any color, although blue is the generally accepted
color for accessible parking.
   (C)   A vehicle displaying a disabled veterans special registration plate
issued pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17A-3-14 shall be recognized and accepted as
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (D)   A vehicle from any other state, United States territory, or foreign
country displaying an officially issued special registration plate, placard, or
decal bearing the international symbol of access shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this section, regardless of where the
plate, placard, or decal is mounted or displayed on the vehicle.
   (E)   Stopping, standing, or parking places marked with the international
symbol of access shall be designated in close proximity to all public entities
including state, county, and municipal buildings and facilities, places of
public accommodation, and commercial facilities. These parking places shall be
reserved solely for persons with a mobility impairment and disabled veterans at
all times.
   (F)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid, unexpired
special registration plate or removable windshield placard may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided, that this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing, or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of any political subdivision of the state is contrary to the
provisions of this division (F), the provisions of this division (F) take
precedence and apply.
      (2)   The parking privileges provided for in this division (F) apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment.
   (G)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate, or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand, or
park a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned, or marked for accessible
parking with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of
access, either by itself or with explanatory text. The signs may be mounted on
a post or a wall in front of the accessible parking space and instructions may
appear on the ground or pavement, but use of both methods is preferred.
Accessible parking spaces for vans having an eight-foot adjacent access aisle
should be designated as “van accessible” but may be used by any vehicle
displaying a valid special registration plate or removable windshield placard.
   (H)   All signs that designate areas as “accessible parking” or that display
the international symbol of access shall also include the words “Up to $500
fine”.
   (I)   No person may stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated or marked off as an access aisle adjacent to a van-accessible
parking space or regular accessible parking space.
   (J)   Parking enforcement personnel who otherwise enforce parking violations
may issue citations for violations of this section and shall reference the
number on the vehicle’s license plate, since the driver normally will not be
present.
   (K)   (1)   Law enforcement agencies may establish a program to use trained
volunteers to collect information necessary to issue citations to persons who
illegally park in designated accessible parking spaces.
      (2)   Any law enforcement agency choosing to establish a program shall
provide for workers’ compensation and liability coverage. The volunteers shall
photograph the illegally parked vehicle and complete a form, to be developed by
supervising law enforcement agencies, that includes the vehicle’s license plate
number, date, time, and location of the illegally parked vehicle.
      (3)   The photographs must show the vehicle in the accessible space and a
readable view of the license plate.
      (4)   Within the discretion of the supervising law enforcement agency,
the volunteers may issue citations or the volunteers may submit the photographs
of the illegally parked vehicle and the form to the supervising law enforcement
agency, who may issue a citation, which includes the photographs and the form,
to the owner of the illegally parked vehicle.
      (5)   Volunteers shall be trained on the requirements for citations for
vehicles parked in marked, zoned, or designated accessible parking areas by the
supervising law enforcement agency.
   (L)   (1)   Local authorities who adopt the basic enforcement provisions of
this section and issue their own local ordinances shall retain all fines and
associated late fees.
      (2)   These revenues shall be used first to fund the provisions of
division (K) above, if adopted by local authorities, or otherwise shall go into
the local authorities’ General Revenue Fund.
      (3)   Otherwise, any moneys collected as fines shall be collected for and
remitted to the state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which
is inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property for any period
of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher; or any motor
vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for any period of
time over five days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
unattended, discarded, deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed
building, a licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher;
provided, that a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, shall not be considered
an abandoned motor vehicle if:
         (a)   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
         (c)   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor vehicle
being stored; and
         (d)   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the state and
not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for
sale.
      ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, and motorcycles.
      PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, or
society, and the plural as well as the singular.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-1)
   (B)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited. No person shall, within the
municipality, abandon a motor vehicle or major part thereof upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property,
or upon property owned or controlled by that person, unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or a business
licensed to do business in the state and not in the primary business of
offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-2)
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising;
   (C)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and
   (D)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency, or used car sales
agency.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering, or
pickup and loading, of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
   (B)   In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand, or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus, when stopped to load or unload passengers or
baggage, shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not
further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the
curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers, or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further testimony that
the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima-facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant. A certified copy of
registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for
which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $100; upon a
second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200;
and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Accessible parking.
      (1)   Any person who knowingly exercises, or attempts to exercise, these
privileges as set forth in §
73.06 at a time when the vehicle is not being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment and, upon first conviction thereof, in
addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined
$200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty, he or
she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent
convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $500.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
73.06(G) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he
or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent
convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $500.
      (3)   Any person, including a driver of a vehicle displaying a valid
removable windshield placard or special registration plate, who violates the
provisions of §
73.06(H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he
or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent
convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-6)
   (C)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. Whoever violates §
73.07 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both.
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
Section
Pedestrians
   
74.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
74.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
74.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
74.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
74.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
74.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
74.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
74.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
74.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
Bicycles
   
74.20   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
74.21   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
74.22   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
74.23   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
74.24   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
74.25   Carrying articles
   
74.26   Lights and reflector on bicycle; brakes
   
74.27   Reckless operation; control, course, speed
   
74.28   Bicycle helmets for children
   
74.29   Electric bicycles
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle defined, see §
70.01
   Moped equipment and operation, see §
72.182
   Pedestrians at traffic signal, see §
71.17
   Pedestrian control signal, see §
71.18
   Pedestrian defined, see §
70.01
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate bicycle operation, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(8)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 74.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in §
71.17, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a))
§ 74.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down, or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
74.03(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-2)
§ 74.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-3)
§ 74.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-4)
§ 74.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-5)
§ 74.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic control device or flagman.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-8)
§ 74.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W. Va. Code § 5-15-5)
§ 74.09 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
70.01 and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-1)
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Front, rear, and side reflectors;
      (2)   A braking system that enables the operator to bring the device to a
controlled stop; and
      (3)   If operated at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a white light that sufficiently
illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway, or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian, and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
BICYCLES
§ 74.20 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway, or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-1) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.21 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which, by
their nature, can have no application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-2)
§ 74.22 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-3) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.23 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-4) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.24 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride in the lane marked for bicycle use or, if no lane is marked for
bicycle use, as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway, except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid any condition or potential
conflict including, but not limited to, a fixed or moving object, parked or
moving vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, turn lane, or
substandard-width lane, which makes it unsafe to continue along the right-hand
curb or edge or within a bicycle lane. For the purposes of this division (A), a
SUBSTANDARD-WIDTH LANE is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another
vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way roadway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such
roadway as practicable.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-5)
§ 74.25 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-6) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.26 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (A)   (1)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles, which shall be visible from all
distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-7)
§ 74.27 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE, SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers, and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks, or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course, unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
74.25; and/or
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.28 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of the state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner, except as
an operator.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of the
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
the state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear, or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-3)
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless, at all times
when the person is so engaged, he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle, or on any attachment to a bicycle, used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless, at all times when the person
is so engaged, he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit,
fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-4)
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (A) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-5)
   (D)   Civil actions. A violation of division (B) above is not admissible as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence, or comparative negligence,
in any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-6)
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.29 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of an electric bicycle has all of the rights and
privileges and is subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle subject to this chapter, except as otherwise provided by this section
and except as to those provisions of this chapter which, by their nature, can
have no application.
   (B)   A person owning or operating an electric bicycle is not subject to the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17A-1-1 et seq., 17B-1-1 et seq., or 17D-1-1 et
seq. relating to registration, title, driver’s license, and financial
responsibility requirements.
   (C)   A person may not tamper with or modify an electric bicycle so as to
change the motor-powered speed capability or motor engagement between pedal-
assist and throttle-assist types of engagement. If a motor on an electric
bicycle is modified so that a limit established in §
70.01 is exceeded, that vehicle is no longer an electric bicycle. The
provisions of this division (C) are not applicable to a modified electric
bicycle operated solely and exclusively on a person’s own property.
   (D)   An electric bicycle must comply with the equipment and manufacturing
requirements for bicycles adopted by the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission (16 C.F.R. part 1512).
   (E)   The motor on an electric bicycle must disengage or cease to propel the
electric bicycle when the operator stops pedaling, or when the operator applies
the brakes and stops pedaling.
   (F)   A Class 3 electric bicycle must be equipped with a speedometer that
displays the speed the electric bicycle is traveling in miles per hour.
   (G)   Class 2 electric bicycles are permitted to use a throttle to propel
the bicycle.
   (H)   Electric bicycles operated on public roadways, public bicycle paths,
public multiuse paths, and other public rights-of-way where bicycles are
permitted to travel are subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Class 1 and Class 2 electric bicycles being used on roads and
trails where traditional, non-electronic bicycle use is allowed will be given
the same rights and privileges of a traditional, non-electric bicycle and will
be subject to all of the duties of a traditional, non-electric bicycle. This
rule intends to facilitate increased access to public lands that may otherwise
be inaccessible to those with disabilities, health issues, or age-related
limitations.
      (2)   A Class 3 electric bicycle may not be operated on a bicycle path,
multiuse trail, or single-use trail unless it is within a highway or roadway;
provided, that the provisions of this division (H) are not applicable to a
bicycle path, multiuse trail, or single-use trail if the municipality, local
authority, or governing body of a state agency that has jurisdiction over the
bicycle path, multiuse trail, or single-use trail expressly permits that
operation.
      (3)   (a)   Electric bicycles will not be given special access beyond
what traditional or non-electric bicycles are allowed.
         (b)   For example, electric bicycles will not be allowed on roads or
trails or in areas where traditional, non-electric bicycle travel is
prohibited.
      (4)   This division (H) may not be construed to limit the authority of
the owner of a private way or the owner of private property to restrict or
allow the operation of electric bicycles on the way or property.
   (I)   Age restrictions related to the operation of electric bicycles are as
follows:
      (1)   A person under 16 years of age may not operate a Class 3 electric
bicycle; and
      (2)   A person under 15 years of age who is an operator or passenger on
an electric bicycle shall wear a properly fitted and fastened bicycle helmet,
pursuant to the Child Bicycle Safety Act, W. Va. Code §§ 17C-11A-1 et seq.
   (J)   A person under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances shall
not operate a Class 1,Class 2, or Class 3 electric bicycle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-8) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
74.01 through
74.09, for which no other penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-7)
      (2)   An operator who violates a provision of §
74.09 shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a second or subsequent
offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 and not
greater than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.99, any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
74.28(B) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program which includes injury
prevention education, or both fined and required to perform such community
service. Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court costs
may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
74.28(B).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
74.28(B), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within, a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   (a)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
74.28 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-2-1
(c).
         (b)   Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred
to the Governor’s Highway Safety Program for assistance in obtaining the
appropriate helmet or helmets.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-7)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits on specific streets
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS ON SPECIFIC STREETS.
   (A)   It shall he unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive said
vehicle at a speed greater than 15 mph on Pine Street where it intersects with
Sumac Court to where it intersects with Walnut Street and Norris Road, where it
intersects with Sumac Court to where it intersects with Walnut Street and Sumac
Court, where it intersects with Pine Street to where it intersects with Norris
Road and Walnut Street, where it intersects with Main Street to where it
intersects with Center Street.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $10 or more than $100.
(Ord. 100-9, passed 8-9-1977)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following street located within the city shall be designated as
one-way street: The part of Bank Street, which is located between Main Street
and Powell Street, shall be a one-way street with traffic to flow south, from
Main Street to Powell Street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive said
vehicle the wrong way upon any public highway, road, street, or alley, which is
located within the city limits which has been designated and is so marked as a
one-way street.
   (C)   Any person violating any one of the provisions in this schedule shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 or more than $100.
(Ord. 100-15, passed 10-3-1977)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this schedule, OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES shall be defined
as trucks, trailers, and other conveyances, whether loaded or unloaded, with
registered gross weight in excess of 20,000 pounds
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate any overweight vehicle upon
any street or alley within the city limits, except:
      (1)   North Lewis Street;
      (2)   South Lewis Street;
      (3)   East Main Street;
      (4)   West Main Street;
      (5)   Walnut Street;
      (6)   Linn Street;
      (7)   College Street;
      (8)   Mineral Road;
      (9)   Sycamore Run Road;
      (10)   North Court Street;
      (11)   Conrad Court Street;
      (12)   Elm Street;
      (13)   High Street;
      (14)   Pine Street;
      (15)   Medical Drive; and
      (16)   Pioneer Way.
   (C)   All such overweight vehicles shall be required to follow the truck
routes, but may leave the truck route at that point on the truck route nearest
its destination in the city for delivery or pickup of materials, goods, and
merchandise at a destination not on the marked truck route, and the same shall
return to the marked truck route by the most direct route.
   (D)   School Buses; those trucks engaged in repairing, maintaining, or
constructing streets, alleys, utility services, or those engaged in
construction of a new building or residence; city-owned, county-owned, or
state-owned trucks; and solid waste haulers providing to customers within the
corporate city limits that may exceed a registered gross weight in excess of
20,000 pounds.
   (E)   Those areas that are not fit for overweight vehicles have been
properly marked with signs stating as such.
   (F)   Any person who violates this schedule shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
Additionally, any person who is found guilty of this schedule shall be required
to pay court cost and reimburse the city and/or private property owner for any
damage to street or property. Damages may be assessed at the cost of the
repairs.
(Ord. 100-22, passed 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking on specific streets
SCHEDULE I. PARKING ON SPECIFIC STREETS.
   (A)   Parking on River Street.
      (1)   There will be no parking on River Street from the church going east
on the south side of the street.
      (2)   There will be no parking from the church going west to the
intersection of U.S. Route 33 and 119 on the north side of the street.
      (3)   There will be no parking on the pavement on State Route 119/9 known
as River Street.   
   (B)   Parking on North Court Street and Howard Street.
      (1)   Parking on North Court Street.
         (a)   The Mayor, through the Street Commissioner, is authorized to
designate no more than three individual parking spaces along the east side of
North Court Street in the block between Main Street and Howard Street as ten-
minute parking spaces without parking charges.
         (b)   The ten-minute parking spaces will be designated as such by
painting the curb or such spaces white with black lettering stating “TEN (10)
MINUTE PARKING FOR CITY BUSINESS ONLY,” together with any other method of
designation, if any, as the Mayor may deem appropriate.
      (2)   Parking on Howard Street.
         (a)   The Mayor, through the Street Commissioner, is authorized to
designate not more than three individual parking spaces along the south side of
Howard Street in the block between North Court Street and Rollyson Street as
city employee parking spaces without charge. The term CITY EMPLOYEE, as used in
this division (B)(2), includes not only full-time, part-time, temporary, and
permanent employees, but also all elected and appointed officials of the city.
         (b)   The city employee parking spaces will be designated as such by
painting the curb of such spaces white with black lettering stating “CITY
EMPLOYEE PARKING ONLY,” together with any other method of designation, if any,
the Mayor may deem appropriate.
      (3)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any registered owner,
operator, or other person to cause, allow, or permit any motor vehicle, whether
or not registered in his or her name, to remain in any ten-minute parking space
for a period of time exceeding ten minutes, to park in any ten-minute parking
space for any purpose other than city business, or to park in any city employee
parking space unless he or she is a city employee as defined in this division
(B), and such motor vehicle displays on the dash visible through the windshield
a city employee parking pass captioned “CITY EMPLOYEE PARKING PASS” and signed
by the Mayor.
      (4)   Penalties.
         (a) Any person violating division (B)(3) above shall be charged with a
violation and may settle and compromise each such charge by depositing $10
together with the “ticket” in a designated fine receptacle, as described in
division (B)(5) below, within 24 hours.
         (b) Failure to settle and compromise any charges within 24 hours shall
increase the settlement and compromise amount to $20 which may be deposited at
any designated fine receptacle within ten days as aforesaid.
         (c)   Failure to settle and compromise the charge within ten days
shall cause an arrest warrant to be issued and, upon conviction, the violator
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and will be punished by a fine of not less
than $30 nor more than $100 plus court costs.
      (5)   Fine receptacle. There shall be installed at suitable places within
the city, under the supervision of the City Police Department, fine receptacle
boxes for deposit of money due the city as a result of the violation of
division (B)(3) above. Upon receipt of a ticket, the violator so receiving such
notice shall deposit the ticket, together with the appropriate fine, in such
fine receptacle. It shall be the responsibility of such violator to properly
deposit such fine in the fine receptacle.
   (C)   Parking on College Street. Parking is permitted on the eastern side of
College Street beginning nine and one-half feet from the centerline to the end
of the right-of-way, between the corner of Main Street and College Street, and
the point 607 feet north in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 100-07, passed 5-3-1993; Ord. 100-06, passed 3-7-1994; Ord. 100-05,
passed 9-20-1999; Res. 100-05A, passed 9-13-2005)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Health and sanitation nuisances
   
90.02   Smoke, soot, cinders
   
90.03   Stagnant water
   
90.04   Weeds
   
90.05   Dead animals
   
90.06   Putrid, unsound substances
   
90.07   Dirt, mud, carried onto streets, alleys, roads
   
90.08   Burning of trash
   
90.09   Property conditions
Littering
   
90.20   Littering
   
90.21   Unlawful disposal of litter
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 HEALTH AND SANITATION NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any premises owned, occupied,
or controlled by him or her to become or remain in a filthy condition, or
permit the use or the occupation of same in such a manner as to create noxious
or offensive smells and odors in connection therewith, or to allow the
accumulation or creation of unwholesome and offensive matter, or the breeding
of flies, rodents, or other vermin on the premises to the menace of the public
health or the annoyance of people residing within the vicinity or passing by.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 SMOKE, SOOT, CINDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the escape of such
quantities of dense smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, or gases as to
be detrimental to or to endanger the health, comfort, and safety or the public,
or so as to cause or have a tendency to cause injury or damage to property or
business.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly allow any pool of stagnant
water to accumulate and stand on his or her property.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 WEEDS.
   Every owner or tenant of property shall periodically cut the grass and other
vegetation commonly recognized as weeds or brush on his or her property, and it
shall be unlawful for any such person to fail to comply with an order by the
Mayor, City Recorder, or Chief of Police to cut such vegetation when it has
reached a height of over one foot.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DEAD ANIMALS.
    Any person owning or having possession of any dead animal not intended for
use as food or any animal that dies on any person’s property shall promptly
bury the same or notify the owner of same so to have it removed promptly or
dispose of such animal in such manner as the Mayor shall direct.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976)
§ 90.06 PUTRID, UNSOUND SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall cast or leave or knowingly allow someone or something under
his, her, or their control to cast or leave exposed in any street, road, alley,
public or private lot, sidewalk, or on any bank of any stream or into any
stream, river, or creek within the corporate limits of the city the dead
carcass of any animal, or any putrid or unsound beef, pork, fish, or human or
animal excrement or urine, or any other putrid or unsound substance that may
become prejudicial to public health or be an annoyance to someone living in the
vicinity or someone passing by.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DIRT, MUD, CARRIED ONTO STREETS, ALLEYS, ROADS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or operator of every vehicle, cart,
wagon, automobile, or other conveyance used or employed in carrying or removing
any dirt, sand, gravel, mud, loam, filth, earth, trash, limbs, manure, stone,
bricks, mortar, coal, cement, lumber, or any building material of any kind
over, on, or across any road, street, or alley within the corporate limits of
the city shall have and keep the same in such tight and secure and clean
condition that such dirt, sand, gravel, mud, loam, filth, earth, trash, limbs,
manure, stone, bricks, mortar, coal, cement, lumber, or any building material
of any kind, shall not be scattered or suffered to fall or be tracked or
carried onto any of the roads, streets, or alleys within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 BURNING OF TRASH.
   (A)   The burning of trash and other articles of like kind and character
within the limits of the city is hazardous and against the public safety of the
residents of said city, and the burning of trash and other articles of like
kind and character within the limits of said city by any individual, person,
partnership, or corporation, is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Provided, that any individual, person, partnership, or corporation may
burn trash or other articles of like kind and character within the limits of
said city in any container or incinerator equipped with screens or other safety
device approved by the Mayor of said city.
(Ord. 200-15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 PROPERTY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever property conditions (a privy, hog-pen, stable, building,
tree, limbs, or any parts thereof) within said city shall be, by a majority of
the whole Council, declared a nuisance, or injurious to the health or comfort
of any person or persons, the owner, agent, or lessee of the property shall be
notified by the Mayor to abate the nuisance within a reasonable amount of time,
by removal or keeping in proper order such nuisance.
   (B)   In the case of refusal or negligence to comply with such notice, the
Mayor shall direct appropriate parties to have the same put in order, or
removed, and report their proceedings and the costs incurred by him or her to
the Mayor; and the property, upon which such nuisance exists, shall be
responsible for the costs of the same.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2009)
LITTERING
§ 90.20 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any street,
road, alley, or stream, or lot within the city limits any trash, refuse,
leaves, glass, nails, tacks, cans, paper, or other substances likely to injure
persons, animals, or vehicles.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-1976) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OF LITTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place, deposit, dump, or throw, or cause to be
placed, deposited, dumped, or thrown, any litter, garbage, refuse, trash, cans,
bottles, papers, ashes, cigarette or cigar butts, junk, the carcass of any dead
animal, offal, waste, or any other offensive or unsightly matter in or upon any
public or private highway, road, street, or alley, or upon the surface of any
land within 100 yards thereof without the consent of the owner, or in or upon
any private property without the consent of the owner, or in or upon any
private property into or upon which the public is admitted by easement or
license, or in or upon any public park or other public property other than in
such place as may be set aside for such purpose by the governing body having
charge thereof.
   (B)   If any such material is thrown, cast, dumped, or discharged from a
motor vehicle in violation of this section, such action shall be deemed prima
facie evidence that the owner or driver of such motor vehicle intended to
violate this section.
   (C)   No portion of this section shall be construed to restrict a private
owner or leasee in the use of his or her own private property or leased
property or to prohibit the disposal of materials designated in this section in
any manner authorized by law.
(Ord. 200-14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any one of the provisions in §§
90.01 through
90.07 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 or more than $100.
      (2)   Any person, individual, partnership, or corporation guilty of
violating §
90.08 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1 nor more than $5, in the
discretion of the Mayor.
      (3)   The owner or lessee of such property shall be liable to a further
fine of not exceeding $10, for neglect or refusal to comply with reasonable
promptitude, with the notice, as provided by §
90.09.
   (C)   Any person violating §
90.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 200-14, passed - -; Ord. 200-15, passed - -; Ord. 200-05, passed 11-1-
1976; Ord. passed 2-9-2009)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Swine
Dogs
   
91.15   Removal, disposal of dog waste
   
91.16   Regulation of dogs
   
91.17   Dogs at large
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against animals and fowl, see §§
130.020 through
130.024
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 SWINE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner, tenant, or other person,
to breed, grow, fatten, keep, or allow to be bred, grown, fattened, or kept
live swine for any purpose whatsoever within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to slaughter or allow to be
slaughtered any swine for purposes either commercial or domestic.
(Ord. 200-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS
§ 91.15 REMOVAL, DISPOSAL OF DOG WASTE.
   No person owning or having custody of any dog shall permit any such dog to
defecate on any school ground, public street, alley, sidewalk, tree bank, park,
or any other public grounds or any private property within the city other than
the premises of the owner or person having custody of the said dog unless
defecation is removed immediately and disposed of in an appropriate manner. For
enforcement purposes, anyone who has the dog on a leash shall be required to
have proper equipment to collect the said defecation.
(Ord. 200-05, passed 11-3-2008) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 REGULATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   Whenever a dog either is acquired or allowed to remain on someone’s
owned or rented premises and such dog becomes six months of age alter the
assessment of the personal property of the owner, keeper, or harborer thereof
the said owner, keeper, or harborer or said dog shall, within ten days after
the acquisition or naturation, register the said dog with the county assessor,
and pay the head tax thereon unless the prior owner, keeper, or harborer paid
the head tax.
   (B)   All certificates of registration and registration tags issued pursuant
to the provisions of this section shall be issued for the fiscal year and shall
be valid from the date on which issued until June 30 or that fiscal year, or
until reissued by the assessor, or his or her deputy, in the regular
performance of his or her duties, but in no case shall previous registration
tags be valid after September 30 of the next ensuing fiscal year.
   (C)   The County Dog Warden and his or her deputies, or the City Dog Warden
or city police officers, shall patrol within the said city limits and shall
seize on sight and impound any dog more than six months of age found not
wearing a valid registration tag, whether such dog be running at large or
contained on private property, and such dog shall be dealt with according to
this section and state law. When any dog has been seized and impounded, the
County Dog Warden shall forthwith give notice to the owner of such dog, if such
owner be known to the Warden, that such dog has been impounded and that it will
be sold or destroyed if not redeemed within five days; if the owner of such dog
be not known to the Dog Warden, he or she shall post a notice in the county
courthouse. The notice shall describe the dog and the place where seized, and
shall advise the unknown owner that such dog will be sold or destroyed if not
redeemed within five days.
   (D)   No person shall attach a registration tag or license tag to any dog
for which it was not issued, or remove a registration tag or license tag from
any dog or the collar of any dog without the consent of the owner thereof.
   (E)   No person shall entice, induce, urge, or cause any dog to engage in or
prolong a fight anywhere in the city limits, and no person shall induce or
cause any dog to run after, bark at, frighten, or bite any person or animal
lawfully passing along or standing in or on any street, alley, road, or highway
in the city.
(Ord. 400-08, passed 6-17-1981) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DOGS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog to run at large upon any road,
street, alley, or grounds of another within the limits of the said city, except
however, dogs may run at large upon the owners’ owned or rented property, or
the owner or keeper of any dog shall be permitted to take the same over and
through the roads, streets, and alleys of the said city as long as such dog or
dogs are, and at all times, properly chained or tied by a device of not more
than eight feet in length while passing through such road, street, or alley.
All owners or keepers of dogs residing within the city limits shall pay the dog
tax and license fee and attach said requirements to the dog’s collar as
required by any local law or as required by any state law.
   (B)   Any dog found running at large within the city limits, whether said
dog be licensed or unlicensed, may be apprehended by any city police officer,
dog catcher, or any other person designated by the Council of the city, whether
said dog’s owner or keeper be known or unknown.
   (C)   State law will apply and will be adhered to accordingly for all dogs
apprehended within the city limits.
(Ord. 200-04, passed 7-7-1980) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or persons failing to comply with §
91.01 has committed a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less than $5 or more
than $25, and each day’s failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense
and is fineable as such.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
91.16 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 or more than $100.
   (D)   Any owner or keeper or person permitting such dog or dogs to be in
violation of §
91.17 as herein provided shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined the sum of not less than $10 or more than $100.
(Ord. 200-13, passed - -; Ord. 200-04, passed 7-7-1980; Ord. 400-08, passed 6-
17-2008)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Regulations
   
92.01   Outdoor fire for cooking or recreation
   
92.02   Outdoor fires for disposal
   
92.03   Prohibited fires
   
92.04   Burn permits
   
92.05   Fire control safety measures
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIRE REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 OUTDOOR FIRE FOR COOKING OR RECREATION.
   The following attended fires are permitted at any time within the city
limits unless a state burning ban prohibiting the same is in effect.
   (A)   Cooking fires. COOKING FIRE means the non-commercial, residential
burning of materials for fuel, other than rubbish, not exceeding three feet in
diameter and two feet in height, in which the fuel burned is contained in an
outdoor fireplace, a barbecue grill, or a barbecue pit for the purpose of
preparing food.
   (B)   Recreational fires.
      (1)   RECREATIONAL FIRE means the non-commercial burning of materials
other than rubbish for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, or similar
purposes in which the fuel burned is not contained in an incinerator, a
barbecue grill, or a barbecue pit, and the total fuel area is not exceeding
three feet in diameter and two feet in height.
      (2)   Recreational fires shall not be located within 20 feet of a
structure or combustible material unless contained in a manner approved by the
Mayor or the Fire Chief of the County Volunteer Fire Department (hereinafter
“Fire Chief”).
   (C)   No permit. Permits shall not be required for cooking and/or
recreational fires.
(Ord. 200-23, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see § 
92.999
§ 92.02 OUTDOOR FIRES FOR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Time periods for fires.
      (1)   The following attended fires are permitted within the city limits,
unless a state burning ban is in effect prohibiting the same, only on the days
and at the times specified immediately hereinbelow:
         (a)   5:00 p.m. on Thursdays to 7:00 a.m. on Fridays;
         (b)   5:00 p.m. on Fridays to 7:00 a.m. on Saturdays; and
         (c)   5:00 p.m. on Saturdays to 7:00 a.m. on Sundays.
      (2)   All such disposal fires are to be fully extinguished by 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   Contained disposal fires.
      (1)   A contained fire to dispose of natural, untreated, and unprocessed
materials, including, but not limited to, tree trimmings, leaves, grass, and
similar garden waste.
      (2)   CONTAINED means the disposal fire is in a vessel that controls the
spread of the fire and may include, but not be limited to, a burn barrel, or a
constructed area specifically designed for the disposal of natural materials.
   (C)   No permit. Permits shall not be required for contained disposal fires.
   (D)   Uncontained disposal fires.
      (1)   An uncontained fire to dispose of natural, untreated, and
unprocessed materials, including, but not limited to, tree trimmings, leaves,
grass, and similar garden waste.
      (2)   UNCONTAINED means the disposal fire is not in a vessel or other
area that controls the spread of the fire.
   (E)   Permit required. Permits shall be required for uncontained disposal
fires.
(Ord. 200-23, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED FIRES.
   The following fires are prohibited within the city limits:
   (A)   Burning ban. Any fire when a state burning ban is in effect;
   (B)   Non-natural materials. Fires to dispose of non-natural materials,
including, but not limited to, paper, garbage, lumber, construction debris, and
other like refuse, even if contained in a burn barrel or similar container,
unless otherwise approved by the Mayor pursuant to §
90.08;
   (C)   Wooden structures. In no event shall burning be done or permitted
within 20 feet of any wooden building, fence, or structure; and
   (D)   Grasslands or forests. Fires to clear grasslands or forests.
(Ord. 200-23, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see § 
92.999
§ 92.04 BURN PERMITS.
   The City Clerk or his or her designee may issue burn permits authorizing
fires within the city limits. The applicant shall submit a burn plan to the
City Clerk specifying, among other things, the dates on which the burn is
proposed to occur, all particulars of the proposed burn, and requesting a burn
permit. The City Clerk, in consultation with the Fire Chief, shall have
discretion in issuing burn permits and may require changes to the proposed burn
plan as may be necessary to reduce the risk of harm from the fire to life or
property.
   (A)   Burn permit fee. The City Clerk shall collect a non-refundable burn
permit fee of $25 with each burn plan application. If a burn permit is issued
by the City Clerk, it will cover only that burn plan application and none
other. Of the $25 burn permit fee, $20 will be allocated to the County
Volunteer Fire Department and $5 will be allocated to the city for
administrative costs. If a burn permit is not secured prior to the burn, a
penalty of $250 shall be assessed against the applicant and/or landowner, in
addition to any criminal penalty imposed.
   (B)   Violations. Noncompliance with any condition of the burn permit is a
violation of this subchapter. Burn permit holders shall take all necessary and
adequate precautions to confine and control fires authorized by the burn
permit. Failure to take such action is a violation of this subchapter and is
justification for revocation of the burn permit. Any burn permit which is
obtained through willful misrepresentation is invalid and is a violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 200-23, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see § 
92.999
§ 92.05 FIRE CONTROL SAFETY MEASURES.
   The following fire control safety measures shall apply to all burn permits
issued by the City Clerk.
   (A)   Safety strip. Any person or his or her agent or employee, whether
acting pursuant to a burn permit or not, shall remove all flammable material
from the area immediately surrounding the material to be burned for a distance
which ensures the fire will at all times be contained; this safety strip shall
in no event be less than ten feet wide. Any such person or his or her agent or
employee who sets or causes to be set any fire which escapes the safety strip
and causes damage to the lands of another is in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Extinguishment. Any person or his or her agent or employee who shall
at any time build or use any fire within the city limits, whether pursuant to a
burn permit or not, shall, before leaving the fire for any period of time,
totally extinguish the same.
   (C)   Adult superintendence required. In no event shall such burning be done
or permitted without the superintendence of a person 21 years of age or older.
   (D)   Attended fires. Fires shall be attended at all times. The issuance of
burn permits does not relieve holders thereof, or their agents or employees or
any other person, from their responsibility to monitor wind and other
conditions that may necessitate the cancelling or early extinguishing of
otherwise permitted fires. City officials, including, but not limited to, the
Mayor, Recorder, City Clerk, City Police, City Water Department employees, and
members of the County Volunteer Fire Department, have the authority to order
the extinguishing of any fire, permitted or not, when, in their judgment, it
poses a risk to life or property.
(Ord. 200-23, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see § 
92.999
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, or his or her agent or employee, that shall violate §§
92.01 through
92.05, or any section thereof, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$1,000 for each violation of §§
92.01 through
92.05. The foregoing fine shall be in addition to any penalties levied as
aforesaid.
(Ord. 200-23, passed 5-5-2025)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS; MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
      
111.   OIL, GAS WELLS
      
112.   YARD, GARAGE SALES; FLEA MARKETS
      
113.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
      
114.   STORES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS;
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Condition precedent to doing business
   
110.02   Application for issuance of license; payment of tax, fees; Recorder to
maintain records
   
110.03   False statement prohibited
   
110.04   Separate license required for each fixed place of business, each class
of business
   
110.05   License year; expiration date; annual renewal; minimum tax; proration
of tax upon beginning business
   
110.06   Display of license
   
110.07   License does not legalize unlawful acts generally
   
110.08   Collection by proceedings in court
   
110.09   Prosecution for violations; recourse of city to seek injunctions
   
110.10   Suspension, revocation of licenses; public hearings upon appeal from
revocation
Miscellaneous Business Activities
   
110.25   Licenses required; license tax imposed
   
110.26   Amount of license charged per business
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 CONDITION PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS.
   Payment in full of the proper tax and as required by the city, the issuance
of a city and state license certificate, and the fulfillment of all terms and
conditions precedent to the transaction of any business, profession, calling,
vocation, activity, trade, or employment for which a city license is required.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX, FEES; RECORDER TO
MAINTAIN RECORDS.
   (A)   Each applicant for a city license shall make application to the City
Recorder on a form to be provided by the city, and holders of business
franchise certificates or other forms of state licenses authorizing them to do
business within the city shall display such state certificates or licenses to
the City Recorder at the time of making application for a city license.
   (B) Upon the payment of such license tax and fee as may be imposed by this
chapter or any other legally enacted ordinance, upon the city license for which
application is made, the City Recorder shall issue the license applied for;
provided, that the application is in proper form, and that all requirements of
state law, this chapter, and other ordinances and all conditions precedent to
the issuance of such license appear to the City Recorder to have been complied
with; and provided further, that applications for licenses which are required
to be issued by the City Council shall be referred by the City Recorder to the
City Council at its next meeting succeeding the date of filing thereof, and he
or she shall not issue any such license until authorized to do so by the City
Council, and in any such case the payment of any license tax and fee shall be
deferred until such application has been approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Recorder shall maintain on file all applications for city
licenses and a record of each license issued, which shall set forth name and
business address of the licensee, the amount of license tax to be paid, the
number of the license, and such additional information as may be pertinent to
establish that all requirements of law and ordinances have been complied with.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.03 FALSE STATEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement in
any application for a city license, or in any form, report, or other statement
relating to any activity licensed by the city and which is required to be made
to any city officer or agency.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS, EACH CLASS
OF BUSINESS.
   Except as may be provided otherwise in this chapter or other ordinances, any
person who, at more than one fixed place of business within the city, engages
in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling, or vocation for which a
city license is required shall obtain a separate license and pay the prescribed
tax and fee therefor for each fixed place of business and for each such
business, profession, calling, or vocation.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.05 LICENSE YEAR; EXPIRATION DATE; ANNUAL RENEWAL; MINIMUM TAX; PRORATION
OF TAX UPON BEGINNING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A license year shall begin on July 1 of each calendar year and shall
expired with the expiration of the next ensuing June 30, and licenses shall
expire at midnight on June 30 subsequent to the date of issuance and shall be
renewable annually, except such licenses for which the tax and fee is by the
day, week, month, or other period less than a year, and except as may be
provided otherwise by other ordinances.
   (B)   The license tax and fee for an initial license upon the commencement
of business shall be the proportion of the duration of such license to the
annual tax and fee; provided, that no license for any purpose for any length of
time shall be issued for less than $2.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person to whom a city license has been issued shall keep such
license conspicuously posted upon or within the premises to which such license
relates.
   (B)   Each licensee having no fixed place of business shall carry his or her
license upon his or her person at all times while engaged in the licensed
business or any transaction incidental thereto, and shall display such license
upon request of any person with whom he or she is transacting business or any
enforcement official of the Mayor or Recorder.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 LICENSE DOES NOT LEGALIZE UNLAWFUL ACTS GENERALLY.
   Nothing in this chapter, and no payment for or issuance of any city license
under the provision hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which otherwise
may be in violation of the law, or to exempt any person from any penalty
prescribed for such violation.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.08 COLLECTION BY PROCEEDINGS IN COURT.
   The City Recorder may collect any license tax and fee unpaid under the
provisions of this chapter by appropriate proceedings in any court of proper
and competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.09 PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS; RECOURSE OF CITY TO SEEK INJUNCTIONS.
   If any person engages in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling, or
vocation contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or other duly
enacted ordinances, whether without first obtaining a license therefor or by
continuing the same after the termination of the effective period of any such
license, or by any violation of the terms and conditions of such license, he or
she shall be subject to immediate prosecution in the municipal court or any
court of similar jurisdiction and, in addition, the City Attorney may, in the
name of the city, seek such injunctive relief as may be deemed appropriate in
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 110.10 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSES; PUBLIC HEARINGS UPON APPEAL FROM
REVOCATION.
   The City Recorder, upon reasonable notice to the licensee, may summarily
revoke any license issued by him or her pursuant to the provision of this
chapter for any reason which would have been grounds for denial of such license
when first issued, for violation of any term or condition of such license, for
violation of any pertinent provision of state law, this chapter, or other duly
enacted ordinances, or for the perpetration or attempted perpetration of fraud,
malpractice, or malfeasance by the licensee, without prejudice to prosecution
of such licensee by the city. Any person having an interest in any license so
revoked and who feels aggravated thereby may request the City Recorder to
further investigate the grounds for revocation and to reconsider his or her
action, and if the City Recorder accedes to such request he or she may suspend
or reinstate the license pending his or her final decision. If the City
Recorder refuses to accede to such request, or if, upon recommendation, he or
she affirms his or her revocation of the license, the party so aggrieved may
appeal to the City Council, appear in person or by counsel, and may have the
attendance of witnesses, books, and papers in his or her behalf, and may
testify in person. The decision of the City Council following such hearing
shall be final, subject to only such judicial review as may by law be provided.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
§ 110.25 LICENSES REQUIRED; LICENSE TAX IMPOSED.
   No person shall, without a currently valid city license, engage in, or
prosecute within the city any of the businesses, activities, trades, or
employments named in the following sections of this chapter. The license tax
hereinafter specified is hereby levied on every person engaging in or
prosecuting, within the city, any such business, activity, trade, or
employment.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.26 AMOUNT OF LICENSE CHARGED PER BUSINESS.
   The amount of license charged per business will be the maximum that the
state code allows.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 111: OIL, GAS WELLS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   City permit required for certain purposes; applicant for city permit
must show that his or her application for state permit discloses well to be
drilled or worked on within city
   
111.03   Restrictions as to drilling in streets and alleys
   
111.04   Drilling near buildings; consent; existing well
   
111.05   Application for permit; filing fee
   
111.06   Issuance, refusal of permit; terms and conditions; compliance
   
111.07   Termination of permit
   
111.08   Insurance, bond required
   
111.09   Oil and Gas Well Inspector
   
111.10   Deeper drilling of well
   
111.11   Derricks and rigs
   
111.12   Pits
   
111.13   Casing
   
111.14   Setting, cement casing
   
111.15   Valves and blow-out preventers
   
111.16   Drilling fluids
   
111.17   Drill stem test, fractures
   
111.18   Tubing
   
111.19   Bradenhead
   
111.20   Christmas tree and well head connections
   
111.21   Premises to be kept clean, sanitary
   
111.22   Mufflers
   
111.23   Storage tanks, separators
   
111.24   Fence
   
111.25   Venting and flaring of gas
   
111.26   Abandonment and plugging
   
111.27   Disposal of salt water
   
111.28   Violations of state and federal laws and regulations constitute
violations of this chapter
   
111.29   Violations
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to prevent injury to the public or to individuals from
anything dangerous, to make regulations guarding against damage by fire, to
provide for the elimination of hazards to the public safety, and to protect and
promote the public health and welfare, see W. Va. Code, § 8-12-5(13), (15),
(23), and (44)
   Oil and gas wells, see W. Va. Code. §§ 22-4-1 et seq.
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section; provided, that all
technical or oil and gas industry words or phrases used herein and not
specifically defined herein shall have that meaning customarily attributable
thereto by prudent operators in the oil and gas industry.
   LEASE. Any tract of land subject to an oil, gas, and mineral lease or other
oil and gas development contract, or any unit composed of several tracts and
leases but operated as one lease, and any tract of land in which the minerals
are owned by an operator or someone holding under it or him or her, but which,
due to the fee royalty, ownership is developed and operated as a separate
tract.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom is issued a permit for the drilling and
operation of a well under this chapter, and his, her, or its administrators,
executors, heirs, successors, and assigns.
   WELL. Any hole or holes, bore or bores, to any sand, formation, strata, or
depth, located or to be located within the city limits for the purpose of
producing and recovering or the attempt to produce or recover any oil, gas,
liquid hydrocarbon, or any of them.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.02 CITY PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES; APPLICANT FOR CITY PERMIT
MUST SHOW THAT HIS OR HER APPLICATION FOR STATE PERMIT DISCLOSES WELL TO BE
DRILLED OR WORKED ON WITHIN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person acting either for himself or herself or
acting as agent, employee, independent contractor, or servant of any other
person to commence to drill, or to operate, clean out, re-case an old well,
drill deeper, or set up any equipment of any kind to work on any well located
or to be located within the city limits of the city or to work upon or assist
in any way in the prosecution or the operation of such well without a currently
valid permit therefor having first been issued by the authority of the City
Council, in accordance with the terms of this chapter. Further, upon
application for such permit from the city, the applicant or permittee shall
show evidence to the city that, in his or her application for a permit to drill
for oil or gas or work on a well located in the city, he or she has a permit
from the State Bureau of Mines if required and he or she has stated therein
that the well is to be drilled or worked on within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see § 
111.999
§ 111.03 RESTRICTIONS AS TO DRILLING IN STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   No well shall be drilled or worked on and no permit shall be issued for any
well to be drilled or worked on at any location which is within any of the
streets or alleys of the city; and no street or alley shall be blocked,
encumbered, or closed or damaged in any drilling or production operation except
by special permit by order of the City Council, and then only temporarily.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see § 
111.999
§ 111.04 DRILLING NEAR BUILDINGS; CONSENT; EXISTING WELL.
   No well shall be drilled or drilled to deepen an old well, and no permit
shall be issued for any well to be drilled at any location or deepened at any
location which is nearer than 300 feet of any residence or commercial building
without the applicant having first secured the written permission of the owner
or owners thereof.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FILING FEE.
   Every application for a permit to drill, deepen, re-case, clean out, or set
up any equipment of any kind of work on any well located or to be located
within the city limits shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or by some
person duly authorized to sign on his or her behalf, and it shall be filed with
the City Recorder and be accompanied with a filing fee of $300 in cash. An
application shall include full information, including the following:
   (A)   The date of application;
   (B)   Name of the applicant;
   (C)   Address of the applicant;
   (D)   Proposed site of the well, including:
      (1)   Name of the fee owner;
      (2)   Name of the lease owner or owners; and
      (3)   Brief description of the land.
   (E)   Type of derrick to be used;
   (F)   Where the well is located if it is an old well;
   (G)   The proposed work to be done;
   (H)   The proposed depth of the well; and
   (I)   The proposed casing program.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.06 ISSUANCE, REFUSAL OF PERMIT; TERMS AND CONDITIONS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The City Council, within 20 days after the filing of the application
for a permit as stated in §
111.05, shall determine whether or not the application complies in all respects
with the provisions of this chapter, and if it does, the Council shall then fix
the amount of the principal of the bond and insurance provided for in §
111.08, and after such determination shall issue a permit for the drilling and/
or operation of or work of the well applied for. Each permit issued under this
chapter shall:
      (1)   By reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
in said permit;
      (2)   Specify the well location with particularity to lot number, block
number, name of addition or subdivision, or other available correct legal
description;
      (3)   Contain and specify that the term of such permit shall be for a
period of one year from the date of the permit and as long thereafter as the
permittee is engaged in drilling operations with no cessation of such
operations for more than 90 days; if the permit is for work to be performed on
the well and no drilling is involved, the permit shall be for a period of one
year from the date of the permit;
      (4)   Contain and specify such conditions as are by this chapter
authorized;
      (5)   Specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the projected depth and specify the work to be done; and
      (6)   Contain and specify that no equipment may be moved in and that no
actual operations shall be commenced until the permittee shall file and have
approved an indemnity bond in the designated principal amount as is so
determined by the City Council and conditioned as specified in §
111.08.
   (B)   Such permit, in duplicate originals, shall be signed by the Mayor, and
prior to delivery to the permittee shall be signed by the permittee (with one
original to be retained by the city and one by the permittee); and when so
signed shall constitute the permittee’s drilling and/or operating license and
the contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms of such
permit and such bond, and this chapter.
   (C)   If the permit for the well be refused, or if the applicant notifies
the City Council in writing that he or she does not elect to accept the permit
as tendered and wishes to withdraw his or her application, or if the bond of
applicant be not approved and the applicant notifies the Council in writing
that he or she wishes to withdraw his or her application, then upon the
happening of said events the cash deposit provided for to be filed with the
application shall be returned to the applicant, except that there shall be
retained therefrom by the city $100 as a processing fee.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.07 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   When a permit shall have been issued, it shall terminate and become
inoperative without any action on the part of the city unless, within 90 days
from the date of issuance, the actual drilling or other work as specified in
the permit shall have commenced. The cessation for a like period of the
drilling operations or the cessation of the production of work as specified for
a like period shall terminate and cancel the permit, and it shall be unlawful
thereafter to continue the work or drilling of such well without the issuance
of another permit.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 INSURANCE, BOND REQUIRED.
   In the event a permit be issued by the City Council under the terms of this
chapter for the drilling and operation or work to be performed on a well, no
actual work shall be commenced and no equipment may be moved in and no actual
operations shall be commenced until the permittee shall file with the City
Recorder a bond and certificate of insurance, as follows.
   (A)   A bond in the principal sum of such number of dollars as has been so
determined by the City Council but not to be less than $5,000, such bond to be
executed by a reliable insurance company authorized to do business in the
state, as surety, and with the applicant as principal, running to the city for
the benefit of the city and all persons concerned, conditioned that the
permittee will comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter in the
drilling and operation and work of the well. Such bond shall become effective
on or before the date it is filed with the City Recorder and remain in force
and effect for at least a period of six months subsequent to the expiration of
the term of the permit issued, and in addition, the bond shall be conditioned
that the permittee will promptly pay off all fines, penalties, and other
assessments imposed upon the permittee by reason of his or her breach of any of
the terms, provisions, and conditions of this chapter; that the permittee will
promptly restore the streets and sidewalks and other public property of the
city which may be disturbed or damaged in the operations to their former
condition; and that the permittee will promptly clear all premises of all
litter, trash, waste, and other substances used, allowed, or occurring in the
drilling, work, or producing operations, and will after abandonment, grade,
level, and restore said property to the same surface condition, as nearly as
possible, as existed when work or operations for the well or wells were first
commenced; and that the permittee will indemnify and hold the city harmless
from any and all liability growing out of or attributable to the granting of
such permit. If at any time the City Council shall deem any permittee’s bond to
be insufficient for any reason, it may require the permittee to file a new
bond.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the bond required in divisions (A) above, the
permittee shall carry a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public
liability insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries
and property damage, naming the permittee and the city, in an insurance company
authorized to do business within the state, said policy or policies in the
aggregate shall provide for the following minimum coverages:
         (a)   Bodily injuries: $50,000;
         (b)   One person: $100,000 for one accident; and
         (c)   Property damage: $50,000.
      (2)   The permittee shall file with the City Recorder certificates of
such insurance as above stated, and shall obtain the written approval thereof
by the Mayor who shall act thereon within ten days from the date of such
filing. Such insurance policy or policies shall not be canceled without written
notice to the City Clerk or City Recorder at least ten days prior to the
effective date of such cancellation. In the event such insurance policy or
policies are canceled, the permit granted shall terminate, and the permittee’s
rights to operate under the permit shall cease until the permittee files
additional insurance as provided herein.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.09 OIL AND GAS WELL INSPECTOR.
   The City Council shall appoint an Oil and Gas Well Inspector, who may be the
Mayor, a Council member, or anyone who may be removed at the will of the City
Council. It shall be the duty of the Oil and Gas Well Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.10 DEEPER DRILLING OF WELL.
   (A)   Once any well has either been completed or abandoned as a dry hole, it
shall be unlawful for any person to drill such well to a deeper depth than that
reached in the prior drilling operations without the permittee as to such well
obtaining a new permit after filing a new application with the City Recorder
specifying:
      (1)   The then condition of the well and the casing therein;
      (2)   The depth to which it is proposed such well be deepened, not to
exceed in any event a total true vertical depth from the surface in excess of
12,000 feet;
      (3)   The proposed easing program to be used in connection with proposed
deepening operations; and
      (4)   Evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing strings
in such well currently pass the same tests as are in this chapter provided for
in case of the drilling of the original well.
   (B)   In the event the City Council is satisfied that such well may be
deepened with the same degree of safety as existed in the original well, a new
permit may be issued without and additional delay, authorizing the deepening
and operation of the well to such specified depth as applied for, not exceeding
in any event a total true vertical depth from the surface in excess of 12,000
feet. In any deeper drilling or any deeper completion, or any deeper production
operations, the permittee shall comply with all other provisions contained in
this chapter and applicable to said ordinance to the drilling, work operation,
and completion of a well or wells.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 DERRICKS AND RIGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate in connection
with the drilling or working or reworking of any well within the city limits
any wooden derrick or any steam-powered rig, and all engines shall be so
equipped with adequate mufflers approved by the Oil and Gas Well Inspector that
the city has appointed; or to permit any drilling rig or derrick to remain on
the premises or drilling site or remain in the city limits for a period longer
than 60 days after completion or abandonment of the well.
   (B)   (1)   At all times from the start of erection of a derrick or a mast,
or a gin-pole, until the well is abandoned and plugged or completed as a
producer and enclosed with a fence as herein provided, the permittee shall keep
a watchman on duty on the premises at all times.
      (2)   Provided, that it shall not be necessary to keep an extra watchman
on duty on the premises when other workman or the permittee are on such
premises.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 PITS.
   (A)   Either earthen or steel slush pits shall be permitted in connection
with the drilling operation or work being performed.
   (B)   In the event a steel pit is used, the pit and its contents shall be
removed from the premises and the drilling or work site and moved out of the
city limits within 30 days after completion of the work or well.
   (C)   In the event an earthen slush pit is used, it shall be filled and
leveled within 120 days after completion of the work or well and never in any
event shall anything contained within this pit or the steel pit be allowed to
spill out of its containment.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.13 CASING.
   (A)   (1)   All casing, including surface protection and production strings,
shall be either seamless steel or equivalent quality oil well casing.
      (2)   Each production string of casing must comply with at least the
following minimum internal pressure yield strength, computed in accordance with
A.P.I. standards, to-wit:
Depth of String in Feet  Internal Pressure Rating (psi)
Depth of String in Feet   Internal Pressure Rating (psi)
   4-1/2” Casing
0-3,410’               1,990 lbs.
3,410-4,530’           3,190 lbs.
4,530-5,900’           4,380 lbs.
   5-1/2” Casing
0-4,340’               3,110 lbs.
4,340-5,640’           4,270 lbs.
5,640-6,860’           5,810 lbs.
   7” Casing
0-1,960’               1,440 lbs.
1,960-2,440’           2,310 lbs.
2,440-3,410’           2,720 lbs.
3,410-4,440’           3,740 lbs.
   8-5/8” Casing
0-1,690’               1,340 lbs.
1,690-2,540’           2,950 lbs.
   10-3/4” Casing
0-1,160’               1,140 lbs.
1,160-1,260’           1,820 lbs.
 
   (B)   Each joint and length of each particular casing string shall have
prior to setting unconditionally passed a complete cold water test.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.14 SETTING, CEMENT CASING.
   No well shall be drilled or drilled deeper within the city limits without
properly setting surface casing to a minimum depth of 800 feet. No well shall
be drilled or drilled deeper within the city limits without cementing the
surface casing by the pump and plug method with sufficient cement to completely
fill all of the annular space behind such casing to the surface of the ground;
and without cementing the production string by the pump and plug method with
sufficient cement to completely fill all the annular space behind the
production string to at least 600 feet above the highest oil and/or gas bearing
horizon; and in the event a protection string of casing be required under the
terms of this chapter without cementing the protection string by the pump and
plug method with sufficient cement to completely fill all the annular space
behind the protection string to at least 600 feet above the highest oil and/or
gas bearing horizon. It is provided, however, that in non-congested areas or
for other reasons he or she may feel valid, the City Oil and Gas Well
Inspector, if it is evidenced to him or her by the permittee or operator, that
the well completion is to be consistent with safe and acceptable completion
methods, he or she may, in his or her discretion, recommend to the City Council
for approval the waiver of all or any part of the requirements set forth in
this section. The City Council has the final say if or not the waiver be
approved.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 VALVES AND BLOW-OUT PREVENTERS.
   No well shall be drilled or worked on within the city limits without
properly equipping the surface casing when set with at least one master valve,
and without properly equipping the protection casing when set with at least one
master valve and one fluid-operated ram type blow-out preventer; and without
properly equipping the production casing during completion operations and work
over operations with at least one master valve and at least one fluid-operated
ram type blow-out preventer. One each well drilled or worked on a valve cock or
kelly cock shall be installed on the kelly used. Each blow-out preventer shall
test 6,000 pounds and its mechanical operation shall be tested at least once
very eight-hour period and all control equipment shall be in good working
condition and order at all times. It is provided however, that in non-congested
areas or for other reasons he or she may feel valid, the City Oil and Gas Well
Inspector, if it is evidenced to him or her by the permittee or operator that
the well completion is to be consistent with safe and acceptable completion
methods, he or she may, in his or her discretion, recommend to the City Council
for their approval the waiver of all or any part of the requirements set forth
in this section.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 DRILLING FLUIDS.
   No well shall be drilled or drilled deeper within the city limits without
using mud as the drilling fluid after the setting of surface casing as provided
in §
111.05. Prior to the time the well reaches the depth of the first known or
encountered oil or gas bearing horizon, the weight of the mud laden drilling
fluid shall be at all times maintained at not less than ten pounds per gallon.
After the well reaches the depth of the first known or encountered oil or gas
bearing horizon, the weight of the mud laden drilling fluid shall be at all
times maintained at such weight as will provide a hydrostatic head of not less
than 250 pounds per square inch in excess of the formation pressure. In
reworking a well, a drilling fluid shall be at all times maintained at such
weight as will provide a hydrostatic head of not less than 250 pounds per
square inch in excess of the formation pressure.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 DRILL STEM TEST, FRACTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in connection with the drilling or
reworking operations of any well within the city limits to take and to complete
any drill stem test or tests except during daylight hours, and then only if the
well effluent during the test is produced through and adequate oil and gas
separator to storage tanks, and the effluent remaining in the drill pipe at the
time the tool is closed is flushed to the surface by circulating drilling fluid
down the annulus and up the drill pipe.
   (B)   Fracturing of a well formation shall be done during daylight hours and
the permittee or operator shall be fully responsible for any and all resulting
damage to underground city water or sewer lines or connections, as well as
privately owned underground water or sewer lines or connections, and all public
utility lines. Upon the completion of the fracture and during the period in
which the well is flowed open to relieve the well bore of fracture fluid, it
shall be the responsibility of the permittee and operator to confine such flow
of fracture fluid to the immediate well location by means of suitably sized
flow lines or in such other manner as to ensure that adjacent property and the
public safety are not endangered. It is further provided however that in non-
congested areas the City Oil and Gas Well Inspector may, in his or her
discretion, recommend to the City Council for their approval the waiver of the
requirements set forth in this section.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 TUBING.
   All tubing used in any well within the city limits shall be seamless steel
tubing having not less than a minimum internal pressure yield strength of 5,280
pounds per square inch if used in connection with a well completion at a depth
not exceeding 7,000 feet, or less than a minimum internal pressure yield
strength of 7,260 pounds per square inch if used in connection with a well
completion at a depth in excess of 7,000 feet.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.19 BRADENHEAD.
   Each well drilled or reworked within the city limits shall be equipped with
a bradenhead with a working pressure of not less than 3,000 pounds per square
inch. Bradenheads shall not be of the homemade welded type. The bradenhead
installed on the surface casing shall be set above ground level and shall be
equipped with fittings having a working pressure rating of not less than 3,000
pounds per square inch. The bradenhead pressure shall be checked at least once
each calendar month and if pressure is found to exist, proper remedial measures
shall be immediately taken to eliminate the source and the existence of the
pressure.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.20 CHRISTMAS TREE AND WELL HEAD CONNECTIONS.
   The Christmas tree and all well head connections on each well drilled or
reworked within the city limits shall be as follows: On all flowing wells
completed at a depth of above 4,000 feet, the Christmas tree and well head
connections shall have at least a minimum working pressure of 2,000 pounds per
square inch and a minimum test pressure of at least 4,000 pounds per square
inch; and on all wells completed to a depth of from 4,001 to 7,000 feet, the
Christmas tree and well head connections shall have at least a minimum working
pressure of 3,000 pounds per square inch and a minimum test pressure of at
least 6,000 pounds per square inch; and on all wells completed below a depth of
7,000 feet, the Christmas tree and well head connections shall be at least a
minimum working pressure of 5,000 pounds per square inch and minimum test
pressure of at least 10,000 pounds per square inch. All piping and fittings
connecting the well head to an oil-gas separator shall have at least the same
minimum working pressure and minimum test pressure as herein above specified
for Christmas tree and well head connections. In the event the surface shut-in
pressure of any well in the city limits exceeds 2,000 pounds per square inch,
the flow wing of the Christmas tree shall be equipped with an automatic closing
safety valve in addition to the regular control valves.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.21 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN, SANITARY.
   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from
rubbish of every character, to the satisfaction of the City Oil and Gas Well
Inspector, at all times drilling operations or reworking operations or
operations of any kind are being conducted, and as long thereafter as oil and/
or gas is being produced therefrom.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.22 MUFFLERS.
   Motive power for all operations after completion of drilling or reworking
operations shall be electricity or properly muffled gas, gasoline, or diesel
engines; such mufflers to be approved by the City Oil and Gas Well Inspector
prior to their use.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.23 STORAGE TANKS, SEPARATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, construct, or operate in
connection with any producing well within the city limits any crude oil storage
tanks, except to the extent of five steel tanks for oil storage, not exceeding
100 barrels capacity each, and so constructed and maintained as to be vapor and
liquid tight and each surrounded with an earthen fire wall at such distance
from the tanks as will under any circumstances hold and retain at least one and
one-half times the maximum capacity of such tank. A permittee may use,
construct, and operate a steel conventional separator, and such other steel
tanks and appurtenances as are necessary for treating oil, with each of such
facilities to be so constructed and maintained as to be vapor and liquid tight.
Each oil gas separator shall be equipped with both a regulation pressure relief
safety valve and a bursting head.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 FENCE.
   Any person who completes any well as a producer shall have the obligation to
enclose such well, together with its surface facilities and storage tanks, by a
substantial smooth net wire fence sufficiently high and properly built so as to
ordinarily keep persons and animals out of the enclosure, with all gates
thereto to be kept locked when the permittee or his or her employees are not
within the enclosure. It is provided, however, that in non-congested areas the
Oil and Gas Well Inspector provided by the city, in his or her discretion, may
recommend to the City Council for their approval the waiver of the requirements
set forth in this section or may designate the type offence to be erected.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see § 
111.999
§ 111.25 VENTING AND FLARING OF GAS.
   No person engaged in drilling or operating or reworking any well shall
permit gas to escape or be vented into the air unless said gas be flared and
burned. All gas flared or burned from a torch, pipe, or any other burning
device within the city limits must be done in such manner so as not to
constitute a fire hazard to any property; and the location of the torch, pipe,
or other burning device; the construction thereof; the maintenance thereof; and
the operation thereof, shall at all times be in full compliance with such
regulations as may from time to time be issued by the City Oil and Gas Well
Inspector.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 ABANDONMENT AND PLUGGING.
   During initial abandonment operations, it shall be the obligation of the
permittee and the operator of the well to flood the well bore with mud-laden
fluid weighing not less than ten pounds per gallon. It shall further be the
obligation of the permittee or operator to comply strictly with the abandonment
procedures and precautionary measures as prescribed for in the permit to
abandon issued by the State Bureau of Mines.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.27 DISPOSAL OF SALT WATER.
   The permittee shall make adequate provisions for the disposal of all salt
water or other impurities which he or she may bring to the surface, such
disposal to be made in such manner as to not contaminate the water supply,
nearby streams, or any water supply whether present or prospective, or to
injure surface vegetation.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 VIOLATIONS OF STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS CONSTITUTE
VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Any violation of the laws of the state or any rules, regulations, or
requirements of any state or federal regulatory body having jurisdiction in
reference to drilling, completing, equipping, operating, producing,
maintaining, or abandoning an oil or gas well or related appurtenances,
equipment, or facilities, or in reference to fire wells, fire protection, blow-
out protection, safety protection, or convenience of persons or property shall
also be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 111.29 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or neglect to comply with any
provision hereof irrespective of whether or not the verbage of each section
hereof contains the specific language that such violation or neglect is
unlawful and is an offense.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any of
the provisions of a drilling and operating permit issued pursuant hereto, or
any condition of the bond filed by the permittee pursuant to this chapter or
who shall neglect to comply with the terms hereof, shall, on conviction
thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $100, and a
further fine of up to $50 may be imposed for every 24-hour period such
violation is suffered to remain. The violation or each separate provision of
this chapter and of said permit, and of said bond, shall be considered a
separate offense. In addition to the foregoing penalties, it is further
provided that the City Council, at any regular or special session or meeting
thereof, may, provided ten days’ notice has been given to the permittee that
revocation is to be considered at such meeting, revoke or suspend any permit
issued under this chapter and under which drilling, reworking, or producing
operations are being conducted in the event the permittee thereof has violated
any provision of said permit, said bond, or this chapter. In the event the
permit be revoked, the permittee may make application to the City Council for a
re-issuance of such permit, and the action of the City Council thereon shall be
final.
(Ord. 300-05, passed 3-7-1977)
CHAPTER 112: YARD, GARAGE SALES; FLEA MARKETS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Limitations on yard sales, garage sales
   
112.03   Flea markets prohibited
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKETS. A collection or group of outdoor stalls, booths, tables, or
other similar arrangement, used by individual vendors, for the display and sale
of various items of new or used merchandise.
   PERSON. Includes religious charities, educational, civic, or fraternal
corporations or associations.
   YARD SALE and/or GARAGE SALE. Any person in the city selling any items of
personal property displayed on a porch, in a garage, yard, or in any way
visible from a street or highway.
(Ord. 200-19, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 112.02 LIMITATIONS ON YARD SALES, GARAGE SALES.
   Yards or garage sales shall be conducted on property owned by or rented by
the person conducting the sale. No person may conduct more than four sales
throughout the year, and the length of any yard or garage sale shall not exceed
three consecutive days. An application must be completed in the Mayor’s office
and a permit issued prior to the opening of the sale in the amount of $5.
(Ord. 200-19, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 112.03 FLEA MARKETS PROHIBITED.
   Flea markets are strictly prohibited within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 200-19, passed 12-1-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $25 or more than $100, and each day a section of this chapter is
violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 200-19, passed 12-1-2003)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Regulations
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK OR VIDEO STORE. An establishment, having as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock in trade, books, video tapes, magazines, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (as defined herein) or an establishment with a
segment or section devoted to the sale or display of such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or
more persons used for presenting material or live entertainment distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (as defined herein)
for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MINI-ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. An enclosed building with a capacity for
less than 50 persons used for presenting material or live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (as
defined herein) for observation by patrons therein.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, and female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state,
even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Conduct and activities which are intended to
arouse the sexual interest of another, such as strategies to find or attract
partners (mating and display behavior), and personal interactions between
individuals, such as flirting and foreplay.
(Ord. 200-22, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 113.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In the development and execution of this chapter, it is recognized
that there are some uses which, because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when
several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances thereby having a
deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas. Specific regulations of these uses
is necessary to ensure that these adverse effects will not contribute to the
blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood. These special
regulations are itemized in this section. No establishment shall be located
within a distance of 3,000 feet of any school, place of worship, or public or
institutional buildings or facilities. The uses to which these controls refer
are as follows: Adult book or video store, adult entertainment center, adult
mini-entertainment center, nude photographic studios, and massage
establishments.
   (B)   The City Council may waive this vocational provision for adult book or
video stores, adult entertainment centers, and adult mini-entertainment centers
if the following findings are made:
      (1)   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest or
injurious to nearby properties, and that the spirit and intent of this chapter
will be observed;
      (2)   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development of a
“skid row” area;
      (3)   The establishment of an additional regulated use in the area will
not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation, nor will it
interfere with any program of urban renewal; and
      (4)   All applicable regulations of this chapter will be observed.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to hereafter establish any adult book or
video store, adult entertainment center, or adult mini-entertainment center
within 2,000 feet of any building containing a residential dwelling or rooming
unit. This prohibition may be waived if the person applying for the waiver
shall file, with the City Council, a petition which specifies approval of the
proposed regulated use by 51% of the persons owning, residing, or doing
business within a radius of 3,000 feet of the location of the proposed use. The
petitioner shall attempt to contact all eligible locations within this radius,
and must maintain a list of all addresses at which no contact was made. A
minimum of 100 responses is required. In the event that the 300-foot radius is
not sufficiently populated to provide 100 residences and/or business places
eligible to respond, the radius will be increased in increments of 100 feet
until there shall be an area large enough to contain 100 eligible residences
and/or business place. The City Council shall set rules and regulations
governing the procedure for securing the petition of consent provided for in
this section of the chapter. The rules shall provide that the circulator of the
petition requesting a waiver shall subscribe to an affidavit attesting to the
fact that the petition was circulated in accordance with the rules of the City
Council and that the circulator personally witnessed the signatures on the
petition, and that the same were affixed to the petition by the person whose
name appeared thereon.
      (2)   The form of the petition shall be approved by the City Council and
shall clearly and unambiguously specify the nature and intent of the request
for signature. The City Council shall not consider the waiver of vocational
requirements until the above described petition shall have been filed and
verified.
   (D)   All adult book or video stores, adult entertainment centers, adult
mini-entertainment centers, or retail establishments offering material
described in this chapter shall comply with the following performance
standards:
      (1)   Any display of adult oriented materials be shielded from public
view either placed behind a counter, or by providing a separately established
room which would have restricted access controlled by the owner or employees;
      (2)   All access to adult oriented material be restricted to persons 18
years of age or older;
      (3)   Signage be posted regarding the restrictions to this type of
material; and
      (4)   The location of the counter or room be limited to an area away from
the main entry.
(Ord. 200-22, passed 4-7-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: STORES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required; where license obtainable; exemptions
   
114.03   Annual license tax
   
114.04   License tax for half year or less
   
114.05   Expiration, renewal of license
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCLUDED. For the purpose of this chapter, no coin-operated device or
devices shall be construed to be a store.
   GENERAL STORE. Any store or stores, or any mercantile establishment or
establishments, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind are
purchased, ordered, sold, or offered for sale either at retail or wholesale.
   PERSON. Any group or combination acting as a unit, individual, committee,
guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, partnership, copartnership, joint
venture, association, trust, firm, or corporation, either domestic or foreign,
which is controlled and directed by one management or association of ultimate
management.
   SPECIAL STORE. Any store or stores of any mercantile establishment or
establishments, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind except
cigarettes, tobacco products, and soft drinks are purchased, ordered, sold, or
offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which contains no coin-
operated device, or devices, owned and operated by the store proprietor.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; WHERE LICENSE OBTAINABLE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, or maintain
any general store or special store in the city without first having obtained a
license to do so from the office of the City Recorder.
   (B)   The establishment, operation, or maintenance of stores by the
following shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this chapter:
      (1)   The United States of America, and the state and its political
subdivision;
      (2)   Religious and charitable organizations; or
      (3)   Any person or person engaged within the city in the business of
producing agricultural products who, individually or collectively, sell in such
store only agricultural products which he, she, or they have produced.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 114.03 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   General store. Every person establishing, operating, or maintaining
one or more general stores within the city under the same general management,
supervision, or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $15 for each such
store.
   (B)   Special store. Every person establishing, operating, or maintaining
one or more special stores within the city under the same general management,
supervision, or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $5 for each store.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 114.04 LICENSE TAX FOR HALF YEAR OR LESS.
   Each license issued prior to January 1 of any fiscal year shall be charged
for the full rate and each license issued on or after January 1 shall be
charged for at one-half of the full rate.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
§ 114.05 EXPIRATION, RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be so issued as to expire on June 30 of each year. On or
before July 1 at each year, every person having a license shall apply to the
City Recorder for a renewal for the license year next ensuing, unless such
person has ceased to operate such store or does not propose to continue
operation of the store during the year next ensuing.
(Ord. 400-06, passed - -2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Administration and Law Enforcement
   
130.001   Refusal to aid officer
   
130.002   Obstructing or giving false information to an officer; fleeing
   
130.003   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
130.004   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
130.005   Attempts
   
130.006   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
130.007   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
130.008   False report
Animals and Fowl
   
130.020   Cruelty to animals
   
130.021   Cruelty to dogs and cats
   
130.022   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
130.023   Barking or howling dogs
   
130.024   Hunting prohibited
Disorderly Conduct and Peace Disturbance
   
130.035   Disorderly conduct
   
130.036   Loitering on school property
   
130.037   Wearing masks, hoods, face coverings
   
130.038   Disturbing the peace
   
130.039   Criminal loitering by persons on supervised release
Gambling
   
130.050   Keeping or exhibiting gambling apparatus
   
130.051   Permitting gambling apparatus on premises
   
130.052   Acting as lookout or guard for keeper of gambling apparatus
   
130.053   Playing on gambling apparatus; hotels, public places
   
130.054   Making wager for value or furnishing money to another wager
   
130.055   Permitting gambling at public places
   
130.056   Cheating or fraudulent actions while gambling or making a wager
   
130.057   Pool rooms defined
   
130.058   Lotteries and raffles
Indecency and Obscenity
   
130.070   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging in prostitution,
lewdness, assignation
   
130.071   Detention of person in place of prostitution
   
130.072   Pandering
   
130.073   Pimping
   
130.074   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
130.075   Indecent exposure
   
130.076   Invasion of privacy by looking
   
130.077   Sale, display of obscene matter
Liquor Control
   
130.090   Definitions
   
130.091   Subchapter not applicable to certain uses by physicians, druggists,
and others
   
130.092   Prohibited acts generally
   
130.093   Unlawful sale or possession by alcoholic liquor licensee
   
130.094   Unlawful purchase of alcoholic liquors from state agency
   
130.095   Intoxicating or drinking in public places; illegal possession
   
130.096   Acts prohibited by non-intoxicating beer licensee
   
130.097   Unlawful purchase of non-intoxicating beer
   
130.098   Acts prohibited by private club licensee
   
130.099   Unlawful purchase from private club
   
130.100   Acts prohibited by wine dealers
   
130.101   Unlawful purchase of wine
   
130.102   Unlawful purchase from retail liquor licensee
   
130.103   Hard cider
   
130.104   Off-premises sales not required to be bagged
   
130.105   Search warrants
Minors
   
130.120   Contributing to delinquency of a child
   
130.121   Cruelty to children
   
130.122   Parental liability for acts of children
   
130.123   Abandoned airtight containers
   
130.124   Tobacco usage restrictions
   
130.125   Smoking prohibited in motor vehicle while minor present
Offenses Relating to Persons
   
130.140   Assault and battery
   
130.141   Assault and battery on school employees
   
130.142   Assault and battery on certain persons
   
130.143   Controlled substances
   
130.144   Breathing, inhaling, drinking certain intoxicating compounds
Offenses Relating to Property
   
130.155   Shoplifting
   
130.156   Definitions
   
130.157   Petit larceny
   
130.158   Dealing with stolen goods
   
130.159   Injury, destruction of property, monuments
   
130.160   Tampering with and theft of utilities; CATV
   
130.161   Littering, deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk
   
130.162   Barricades and warnings; abandoned
   
130.163   Unauthorized use of dumpsters
   
130.164   Fraudulently obtaining food or lodging
Railroads
   
130.175   Obstructing railroad crossings
   
130.176   Trespassing
Weapons and Explosives
   
130.190   Definitions
   
130.191   Carrying deadly weapon without license; under 21 years of age
   
130.192   Exceptions
   
130.193   Persons prohibited from possession of firearms
   
130.194   Possession of deadly weapons by minors prohibited
   
130.195   Possession of machine guns
   
130.196   Deadly weapons for sale or hire
   
130.197   Brandishing deadly weapons
   
130.198   Possessing deadly weapons on premises of education facilities
   
130.199   Fireworks sale, possession and discharge
   
130.200   Discharging firearms
   
130.201   Throwing, shooting missiles
Drug Paraphernalia
   
130.215   Items designed, marketed for use with controlled substances
   
130.216   Drug paraphernalia
   
130.217   Prohibited acts
   
130.218   Sales to minors prohibited
 
   
130.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with lawful order of police officer, see §
70.17
   Stopping at grade crossing, see §§
72.135 through
72.143
Statutory reference:
   Authority to eliminate grade crossings, see W. Va. Code § 17-10-7
   Authority to maintain order, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(19), (44)
   Authority to prevent ill-treatment of animals, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(27)
   Authority to prevent indecent practices, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(19)
   Authority to prohibit carrying weapons, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(16)
   Authority to prohibit distribution of obscene literature, see W. Va. Code §
8-12-5(17)
   Authority to regulate advertising, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(31)
   Authority to regulate liquor sales, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(20)
   Authority to regulate the keeping of animals, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(26)
   Authority to suppress houses of ill fame, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(18)
   Bribery and corrupt practices generally, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-5A
   Contributing to delinquency of minor, see W. Va. Code §§ 49-7-7 et seq.
   Crimes against public justice, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-5
   Crimes against public policy, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-10
   Crimes against the peace, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-6
   Dangerous weapons, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-7
   Delinquent child defined, see W. Va. Code § 49-1-206
   Diseases among domestic animals, see W. Va. Code Art. 19-9
   Disposing of dead animals, see W. Va. Code § 16-9-3
   Dogs generally, see W. Va. Code Art. 19-20
   Domestic animal tax, see W. Va. Code § 8-13-10
   Equitable remedies, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-9
   Gambling at fairs prohibited, see W. Va. Code § 19-7-8
   Gaming contracts, see W. Va. Code Art. 55-9
   Grant of right-of-way, see W. Va. Code § 31-2-13
   Hunting, see W. Va. Code Art. 20-2
   Jurisdiction of municipal court, see W. Va. Code § 49-5-106
   Limitations on power to restrict ownership, see W. Va. Code § 8-2-5a
   Local option, see W. Va. Code Art. 60-5
   Non-intoxicating beer, see W. Va. Code Art. 11-16
   Pari-mutuel system of wagering at race track permitted, see W. Va. Code §
19-23-9
   Penalty not to exceed that provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 61, see W. Va. Code §
8-12-5(57)
   Search warrants, see W. Va. Code § 60-6-18
   Specific types of bribery, see W. Va. Code §§ 3-1-1 et seq., 15-2-17 et
seq., 18-2A-9, 61-10-15, and 61-10-22
   State law provisions, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-2, 61-3
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see W. Va. Code Ch. 60A
   Vaccination of dogs, see W. Va. Code Art. 19-20A
ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 130.001 REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse, or neglect, to assist him or her in the execution of his or her office
in a criminal case in the preservation of the peace or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-14) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO AN OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   A person who by threats, menaces, acts, or otherwise forcibly or
illegally hinders or obstructs, or attempts to hinder or obstruct, a law
enforcement officer, probation officer, parole officer, courthouse security
officer, correctional officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or
Assistant Fire Marshal acting in his or her official capacity, shall be
penalized as set forth in §
130.999(B)(3)(a).
   (B)   A person who, with intent to impede or obstruct a law enforcement
officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire
Marshal in the conduct of an investigation of a misdemeanor or felony offense,
knowingly and willfully makes a materially false statement shall be penalized
as set forth in §
130.999(B)(3)(b). The provisions of this section do not apply to statements
made by a spouse, parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, half-sibling,
child, stepchild, or grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the
person under investigation. Statements made by the person under investigation
may not be used as the basis for prosecution under this division (B). For
purposes of this division (B), LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER does not include a
watchman, a member of the State Police, or college security personnel who is
not a certified law enforcement officer. A criminal charge under this division
(B) relating to the investigation of a misdemeanor offense may not be used to
seek or support a secured bond or pre-trial incarceration.
   (C)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from a law enforcement officer, probation
officer, parole officer, courthouse security officer, correctional officer, the
State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal acting in
his or her official capacity who is attempting to make a lawful arrest of or to
lawfully detain the person, and who knows or reasonably believes that the
officer is attempting to arrest or lawfully detain him or her, shall be
penalized as set forth in §
130.999(B)(3)(c).
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the terms FLEE, FLEEING, and FLIGHT do
not include a person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing
the pursuing law enforcement officer to maintain appropriate surveillance, for
the purpose of complying with the officer’s direction to stop.
   (E)   (1)   No person, with the intent to purposefully deprive another
person of emergency services may interfere with or prevent another person from
making an emergency communication, which a reasonable person would consider
necessary under the circumstances, to law enforcement, fire, or emergency
medical services personnel.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (E), the term INTERFERE WITH OR
PREVENT includes, but is not limited to, seizing, concealing, obstructing
access to, or disabling or disconnecting a telephone, telephone line, or
equipment or other communication device.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (E), the term EMERGENCY
COMMUNICATION means communication to transmit warnings or other information
pertaining to a crime, fire, accident, power outage, disaster, or risk of
injury or damage to a person or property.
   (F)   A person is guilty of filing a false complaint against a law
enforcement officer when, knowing the information reported is false or
baseless, he or she:
      (1)   Initiates a false complaint of improper action of a law enforcement
officer relating to an incident or other circumstance;
      (2)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with conduct of law
enforcement officers which did not occur, does not in fact exist; or
      (3)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed
any false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under, or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane, or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being
made or to be made to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive
device.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of division (A) above for a second offense or
whose violation of division (A) above results in another suffering serious
bodily injury shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.004 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official or be under the order or
direction of any such person. No person not a law enforcement officer or law
enforcement official shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the
badge or other insignia adopted for use by such persons, with the intent to
deceive another person.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the terms LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-
29-1, except that such terms shall not include members of the Department of
Homeland Security and shall not include individuals hired by non-public
entities for the provision of security services.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (B)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
duties, functions, or powers of a municipal officer. No person not a member of
the Fire Department, for the purpose of such false representation, shall wear a
uniform or part thereof similar to the uniform worn by a member of the Fire
Department.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.999 if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W. Va. Code § 61-11-8)
§ 130.006 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided, that the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself or herself, or others; and
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to § 130.150.
   (B)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (C)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue. When a physical arrest is made
and a citation is issued in relation to the same offense, the officer shall
mark on the citation, in the place specified for court appearance date, the
word “arrested” in lieu of the date of court appearance.
(W. Va. Code § 62-1-5(a))
§ 130.007 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when,
knowing the information reported, conveyed, or circulated is false or baseless,
he or she:
      (1)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or
other emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles, or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
      (2)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies
involving danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or
other emergency in which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will
result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue
vehicles, or other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur,
does not in fact exist;
      (3)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an
allegedly impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact
about to occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident,
or to the alleged implication of some person therein; or
      (4)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm
system, or otherwise any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue
vehicles, or other emergency vehicles.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
emergency drill.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-20) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.008 FALSE REPORT.
   No person shall make or give a false report or false information to any
police or fire officer of the city.
Penalty, see §
130.999
ANIMALS AND FOWL
§ 130.020 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly:
      (1)   Mistreat an animal in a cruel manner;
      (2)   Abandon an animal;
      (3)   Withhold:
         (a)   Proper sustenance, including food or water;
         (b)   Shelter that protects from the elements of weather; and/or
         (c)   Medical treatment necessary to sustain normal health and
fitness, or to end the suffering of any animal.
      (4)   Abandon an animal to die;
      (5)   Leave an animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle when
physical injury to or death of the animal is likely to result;
      (6)   Ride an animal when it is physically unfit;
      (7)   Bait or harass an animal for the purpose of making it perform for a
person’s amusement;
      (8)   Cruelly chain or tether an animal; or
      (9)   Use, train, or possess a domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
   (B)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same
meaning ascribed to it by W. Va. Code § 60A-1-101(e).
   (E)   The provisions of this section do not apply to lawful acts of hunting,
fishing, trapping, or animal training or farm livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and maintained
according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane use of
animals or activities regulated under and in conformity with the provisions of
7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq. and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as both
such statutes and regulations are in effect on the effective date of this
section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.021 CRUELTY TO DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall cruelly or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill, or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat,
irrespective of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that of
another person. No person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient
quantity of food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog
or cat or be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one dog or cat
to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat,
or receive money for the admission of any person, or use, train, or possess a
dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other dog
or cat.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.022 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality so as
to create noxious, or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort, or safety of the public.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.023 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the municipality which, by
frequent and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to
disturb the peace, quiet, and good order of the municipality. Any person who
shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged, or fed within any
dwelling, building, yard, or enclosure, which he or she occupies or owns, shall
be considered as harboring such dog.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hunt, kill, or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by the use
of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle, or any other means within the corporate
limits of the municipality.
Penalty, see §
130.999
DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
§ 130.035 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall, in a public place, any state or municipal office or
office building or any other property owned, leased, occupied, or controlled by
the state or municipality, a mobile home park, a public parking area, a common
area of an apartment building or dormitory, or a common area of a privately
owned commercial shopping center, mall, or other group of commercial retail
establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent, profane, indecent, or
boisterous conduct or language, or by the making of unreasonably loud noise
that is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another person, and who
persists in such conduct after being requested to desist by a law enforcement
officer acting in his or her lawful capacity; provided, that nothing in this
division (A) should be construed as a deterrence to the lawful and orderly
public right to demonstrate in support or protest of public policy issues.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A privately-owned residential housing area or
subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes and
wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for purposes
of ingress and egress, parking, recreation, and other like residential
purposes.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
         (a)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An area, whether publicly or privately owned or
maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-1b) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.036 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person, not a student in regular attendance, shall loiter in or about any
school, school building, or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-14a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 WEARING MASKS, HOODS, FACE COVERINGS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood, or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway, or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby, or foyer open to, used by, or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained, or operated by the state or municipality;
      (4)   Ask, request, or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling, or place of business of any other person within the
municipality; or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained from
the owner or occupant thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood, or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood, or device in theatrical productions, including
use in mardi gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device prescribed for civil defense
drills, exercises, or emergencies; or
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-22) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.038 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   On any street, highway, public building, in or on a public or
private conveyance, or public place, engage in conduct having a direct tendency
to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom, individually, such
conduct is directed;
      (2)   Willfully, or being intoxicated, whether willfully or not, disrupt
any meeting of the governing body of any political subdivision of the state or
a division or agency thereof, or of any school, literary society, or place of
religious worship, or any other meeting open to the public, if such disruption
prevents or interferes with the orderly conduct of such meeting or has a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom,
individually, such disruption is directed;
      (3)   Engage in fighting, or threaten to harm persons or property
unlawfully;
      (4)   Make offensively coarse utterance, gesture, or display, or
communicate unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, which by
its very utterance or usage inflicts injury or tends to incite an immediate
breach of the peace;
      (5)   Insult, taunt, or challenge another under circumstances in which
such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (6)   Hinder or prevent the movement of persons or vehicles on a public
street, road, highway, right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or
private property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, by any act
which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose;
      (7)   Create a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to
persons or property; and
      (8)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon the property of any
other person, except this section shall not apply to the use of restrooms and/
or bathrooms.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing described herein shall be interpreted or construed to
prevent any constitutionally protected activity including, but not necessarily
limited to, exercise of one’s constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of
speech or assembly.
      (2)   No person may be convicted under this section when his or her sole
intent for engaging in the activities for which he or she was arrested was to
exercise one or more of the rights guaranteed to him or her under the
Constitution of the United States or the State Constitution or to exercise any
other rights guaranteed to that person by law.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.039 CRIMINAL LOITERING BY PERSONS ON SUPERVISED RELEASE.
   (A)   No person, serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-12-26, shall loiter within 1,000
feet of the property line of the residence or workplace of a victim of a
sexually violent offense for which the person was convicted.
   (B)   No person, serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-12-26 for an offense where the
victim was a minor, shall loiter within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
facility or business the principal purpose of which is the education,
entertainment, or care of minor children, playground, athletic facility, or
school bus stop.
   (C)   A person does not violate the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) above
unless he or she has previously been asked to leave the proscribed location by
an authorized person and thereafter refuses to leave or leaves and thereafter
returns to the proscribed location.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED PERSON.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer acting in his or her official
capacity;
         (b)   A security officer employed by a business or facility to protect
persons or property acting in his or her employment capacity;
         (c)   An owner, manager, or employee of a facility or business having
a principal purpose the caring for, education, or entertainment of minors;
         (d)   A victim or parent, guardian, or lawful temporary or permanent
custodian thereof; and/or
         (e)   An employee of a county board of education acting in his or her
employment capacity.
      FACILITY OR BUSINESS, THE PRINCIPAL PURPOSE OF WHICH IS THE EDUCATION,
ENTERTAINMENT, OR CARE OF MINOR CHILDREN.
         (a)   A pre-school, primary, intermediate, middle, or high school,
either public or private;
         (b)   A childcare facility;
         (c)   A park;
         (d)   An athletic facility used by minors; and/or
         (e)   A school bus stop.
      LOITERING. To enter or remain on property while having no legitimate
purpose or, if a legitimate purpose exists, remaining on that property beyond
the time necessary to fulfill that purpose.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or limit a
person’s presence within 1,000 feet of a location or facility referenced in
this section if the person is there present for the purposes of supervision,
counseling, or other activity in which the person is directed to participate as
a condition of supervision or where the person has the express permission of
his or her supervising officer to be present.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-29) Penalty, see §
130.999
GAMBLING
§ 130.050 KEEPING OR EXHIBITING GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an
A.B.C. or E.O. table, faro bank, keno table, or any slot machine, multiple coin
console machine, multiple coin console slot machine, or device in the nature of
a slot machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind, under any
denomination or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank, machine, or
device is played with cards, dice, or otherwise, or be a partner, or concerned
in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank, machine, or gaming
device of any character.
   (B)   Any such table, faro bank, machine, or gaming device, and all money
staked or exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table or upon such gaming
device, may be seized by order of the Police Court and the money so seized
shall be forfeited to the municipality and paid into the municipal treasury,
and the table, faro bank, machine, or gaming device shall be completely
destroyed.
   (C)   However, the provisions of this section shall not extend to coin-
operated non-payout machines with free play features or to automatic weighing,
measuring, musical, and vending machines which are so constructed as to give a
certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin deposited
therein and in which there is no element of chance.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-1) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.051 PERMITTING GAMBLING APPARATUS ON PREMISES.
   No person shall knowingly permit a gaming table, bank, or device, as
mentioned in §
130.050, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his or her occupation.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.052 ACTING AS LOOKOUT OR GUARD FOR KEEPER OF GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall act as doorkeeper, guard, or watch, or employ another person
to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any gaming table, bank, or device
as mentioned in §
130.050, nor resist, nor by any means or device, prevent, hinder, or delay the
lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure of the table, bank,
or device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, nor unlawfully take the same
from the person seizing it.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.053 PLAYING ON GAMBLING APPARATUS; HOTELS, PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall bet or play at any gaming table, bank, or device as
mentioned in §
130.050, or at any hotel or tavern, other public place, or place of public
resort, play at any game except bowling, chess, or backgammon, draughts, or a
licensed game, or bet on the side of those who play at any game, whether or not
the game is permitted or licensed.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-4) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.054 MAKING WAGER FOR VALUE OR FURNISHING MONEY TO ANOTHER WAGER.
   No person shall, at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or other
thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or other
thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.055 PERMITTING GAMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES.
   No keeper of a hotel, tavern, or other public place shall permit unlawful
gaming at his or her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor, or other place
appurtenant thereto.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 CHEATING OR FRAUDULENT ACTIONS WHILE GAMBLING OR MAKING A WAGER.
   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in any
stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any game
or making a wager, shall cheat, or by fraudulent means win or acquire for
himself or herself, or another, money or any other valuable thing.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.057 POOL ROOMS AND POOL TICKETS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POOLROOM. Any room where any pool ticket, chance voucher or certificate is
sold entitling or purporting to entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any
other person, to money or other thing of value, contingent upon the result of
any horse race, prizefight, game of chance, game of skill or science, or other
sport or contest. No person shall set up or promote, or be connected with or
interested in the management or operation of any POOLROOM. The buying, selling,
or transferring of tickets or chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.058 LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote, or be
concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other thing
of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her control;
knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such house or to
be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of chance;
knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or share of a
ticket in a lottery, or any writing, certificate, bill, token, or other device
purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person or to entitle him
or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn in a
lottery. No person shall for himself or herself or any other person, buy, sell,
transfer, or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale or with
intent to exchange, negotiate, or transfer, or aid in selling, exchanging,
negotiating, or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a ticket, in a
lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token, or device. However, this
section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain type or form of lottery or
raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy” or “numbers.”
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
§ 130.070 OPERATING A PLACE FOR OR PERMITTING OR ENGAGING IN PROSTITUTION,
LEWDNESS, ASSIGNATION.
   (A)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain, or operate any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, or part thereof, or vehicle,
trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, or
part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to be used for
the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, or let, sublet, or rent
any such place, premises, or conveyance to another with knowledge or good
reason to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to use such place,
premises, or conveyance for prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or offer,
or offer to secure, another for the purpose of prostitution or for any other
lewd or indecent act; or receive, or offer or agree to receive, any person into
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, or
vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution,
lewdness, or assignation, or permit any person to remain there for such
purpose; or for another or others, direct, take, or transport, or offer or
agree to take or transport, or aid or assist in transporting, any person to any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer,
or other conveyance, or to any other person with knowledge or having reasonable
cause to believe that the purpose of such directing, taking, or transporting is
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or aid, abet, or participate in the
doing of any acts herein prohibited. Whoever violates this division (A) shall,
for a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation, or solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or reside in, enter, or remain in any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, or enter or
remain in any vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or aid, abet, or participate in the
doing of any of the acts herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) shall, for a first or second
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator, or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
   (C)   (1)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting,
subletting, or renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or
other structure which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation, shall be void from and after the date any person who is a party to
such an agreement shall be convicted of an offense hereunder.
      (2)   TOURIST CAMP includes any temporary or permanent buildings, tents,
cabins, or structures, or trailers or other vehicles which are maintained,
offered, or used for dwelling or sleeping quarters for pay.
   (D)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-5) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.071 DETENTION OF PERSON IN PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall, by any means, keep, hold, detain, or restrain any
person in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is
practiced or allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain, or
restrain or attempt to keep, hold, detain, or restrain, in any house of
prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any
person by any means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or
indirectly, to pay, liquidate, or cancel any debt, dues, or obligations
incurred or said to have been incurred by such person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained, or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-6) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.072 PANDERING.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of
prostitution, or by promises, threats, violence, or by any device or scheme,
cause, induce, persuade, or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house
of prostitution, or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution
for a person.
         (b)   No person shall, by promises, threats, violence, or any device
or scheme cause, induce, persuade, or encourage an inmate of a house of
prostitution to remain therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice,
or by duress of person or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or
authority, procure any person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to
enter any place in which prostitution is encouraged or allowed within the
municipality, or to come into or leave the municipality for the purpose of
prostitution, or shall procure any person to become an inmate of a house of ill
fame within the municipality, or to come into or leave the municipality for the
purpose of prostitution; or shall receive or give or agree to receive or give
any money or thing of value for procuring or attempting to procure any person
to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within the municipality, or to come
into or leave the municipality for the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of the municipality, and the offense shall in such case be
deemed and alleged to have been committed, and the offender tried and punished,
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.073 PIMPING.
   (A)   No person knowing another person to be a prostitute shall live or
derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution. A
prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution hereunder to testify
for or against the accused as to any transaction or conversation with the
accused, or by the accused with another person or persons in the presence of
the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the accused before or
after the violation of any of the provisions of this section, whether called as
a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its dissolution.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.074 OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (A)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (C)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made, or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-16) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.075 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus, or the
sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure by
another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under circumstances
in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm;
provided, that it is not considered indecent exposure for a mother to breast
feed a child in any location, public or private.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.076 INVASION OF PRIVACY BY LOOKING.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through, or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door, or other aperture of any building, structure, or other enclosure
of any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure, or enclosure be permanently situated
or transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.077 SALE, DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIVIDUAL. Any human being regardless of age.
      KNOWINGLY. To have knowledge of or to be aware of the content or
character of obscene matter.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing, or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription, or
mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines, or materials.
      OBSCENE. Matter which the average individual applying contemporary
community standards would find:
         (a)   Taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest;
         (b)   Depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; and
          (c)   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value, and which either:
            1.   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, masochism; or
            2.   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish, or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display sack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar public places so that material can be purchased or viewed by
individuals.
   (B)   Individual relief. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction to issue
an injunction to enforce the purposes of this section upon petition by the
attorney for the municipality or a representative thereof or any citizen of the
municipality who can show a good faith and valid reason for making such
application. No bond shall be required unless for good cause shown.
   (C)   Activities prohibited. No person shall knowingly send or cause to be
sent or cause to be brought into the municipality for sale or public display,
or prepare, sell, or make a public display, or in the municipality offer to
prepare, sell, or make a public display, or have in his or her possession with
the intent to sell or make a public display of any obscene matter to any
individual.
   (D)   Employees not prosecuted. No employee shall be guilty of a violation
of this section when such employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, usher, or
when such employee prepares, sells or makes a public display of obscene matter
while acting within the scope of his or her regular employment, unless such
employee has a proprietary interest in such obscene matter or is a shareholder
or officer of a corporation which has a proprietary interest in such obscene
matter.
   (E)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the Constitution or laws of the
state, or of these United States.
(W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(b)) Penalty, see §
130.999
LIQUOR CONTROL
§ 130.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whatever its origin, and shall include synthetic
ethyl alcohol but not denatured alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, beer, wine, and spirits, and any liquid
or solid capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include non-
intoxicating beer.
   AN AGENCY. A drugstore, grocery store, or general store designated by the
Commission as a retail distributor of alcoholic liquor for the State Alcohol
Beverage Control Commission.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops, or
any other similar product or substitute, and containing more alcohol than that
of NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   BREWERY. An establishment where beer is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   COMMISSIONER or COMMISSION. The State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner.
   DEPARTMENT. The organization through which the Commission exercises powers
imposed upon it by this subchapter.
   DISTILLERY. An establishment where alcoholic liquor other than wine or beer
is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   INTOXICATED. A person’s faculties are impaired by alcohol or other substance
to the point where physical or mental control or both are markedly diminished.
   MANAGER. An individual who is the applicant’s or licensee’s on-premises
employee, member, partner, shareholder, director, or officer who meets the
licensure requirements of W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-1 et seq. and rules promulgated
thereunder, who actively manages, conducts, and carries on the day-to-day
operations of the applicant or licensee with full and apparent authority or
actual authority to act on behalf of the applicant or licensee. Such duties
include, but are not limited to, coordinating staffing; reviewing and approving
payroll; ordering and paying for inventory, such as non-intoxicating beer,
wine, and liquor, as applicable; and managing security staff, security systems,
video, and other security equipment; and any further acts or actions involved
in managing the affairs of the business, on behalf of owners, partners,
members, shareholders, officers, or directors.
   MANUFACTURE. To distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix, concoct,
process, blend, bottle, or fill an original package with any alcoholic liquor.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacture of any alcoholic liquor,
and among others includes a distiller, a rectifier, a wine maker, and a brewer.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5)
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER. All natural cereal malt beverages or products of the
brewing industry commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale, and all other
mixtures and preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt
coolers and non-intoxicating craft beers with no caffeine infusion or any
additives masking or altering the alcohol effect containing at least 0.5%
alcohol by volume, but not more than 11.9% of alcohol by weight, or 15% alcohol
by volume, whichever is greater. The word LIQUOR, as used in W. Va. Code §§ 60-
1-1 et seq., does not include or embrace NON-INTOXICATING BEER nor any of the
beverages, products, mixtures, or preparations included within this definition.
   NON-INTOXICATING CRAFT BEER. Any beverage obtained by the natural
fermentation of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product or substitute
and containing not less than 0.5% by volume and not more than 15% alcohol by
volume or 11.9% alcohol by weight with no caffeine infusion or any additives
masking or altering the alcohol effect.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-3)
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any closed or sealed container or receptacle used for
holding alcoholic liquor.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
or voluntary association.
   POWDERED ALCOHOL. An alcohol manufactured in a powder or crystalline form
for either direct use or reconstitution as an alcoholic liquor or food. For
purposes of this subchapter, POWDERED ALCOHOL excludes any material intended
for industrial purposes.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, building, or conveyance to which the public has, or
is permitted to have, access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel
dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane,
park, or place of public resort or amusement; provided, that the term PUBLIC
PLACE shall not mean or include any of the above-named places or any portion or
portions thereof which qualify and are licensed under the provisions of this
subchapter to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises; provided,
however, that the term PUBLIC PLACE shall not mean or include any legally
demarcated area designated solely for the consumption of beverages and freshly
prepared food that directly connects and adjoins any portion or portions of a
premises that qualifies and is licensed under the provisions of this subchapter
to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption thereupon; provided further, that the
term PUBLIC PLACE shall not include a facility constructed primarily for the
use of a Division I, II, or III college or university that is a member of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association, or its successor, and used as a
football, basketball, baseball, soccer, or other Division I, II, or III sports
stadium which holds a special license to sell wine pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code § 60-8-3 in the designated areas of sale and consumption of wine
and other restrictions established by that section and the terms of the special
license issued thereunder.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means, for a
consideration, and shall include all sales made by a principal, proprietor,
agent, or employee.
   SELLING. Includes solicitation or receipt of orders; possession for sale;
and possession with intent to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation and mixed with
potable water and other substances in solution, and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, cordials, and gin.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE. A store established and operated by the Commission under
this subchapter for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package for
consumption off the premises.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits, or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
   WINERY. An establishment where wine is manufactured or in any way prepared.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5)
§ 130.091 SUBCHAPTER NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES BY PHYSICIANS, DRUGGISTS,
AND OTHERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not prevent:
   (A)   A physician from prescribing the use of alcoholic liquors when
necessary for a bona fide patient;
   (B)   A druggist from selling, upon a prescription properly issued by a
physician, alcoholic liquors for medicinal purposes;
   (C)   A physician, dentist, or veterinarian, in the legitimate practice of
his or her profession, from using and administering alcoholic liquors;
   (D)   (1)   Hospitals, sanitariums, or that division of any institution
which is regularly conducted as a hospital, dispensary, or infirmary from using
or administering alcoholic liquors to bona fide patients.
      (2)   Institutions and the divisions thereof provided in this section may
carry a stock of alcoholic liquors sufficient for this purpose; and
   (E)   Religious organizations from using wine for sacramental purposes.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-5)
§ 130.092 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Manufacture or sell in the city, without a license, any alcoholic
liquor except as permitted by W. Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (B)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
license, except as permitted by W. Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (C)   Sell or tender without a license any alcoholic liquor other than
provided by W. Va. Code Art. 60-6;
   (D)   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug, methyl
alcohol, crude, unrectified, or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or any other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
   (E)   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in which
alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in the state;
   (F)   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in the city except in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
   (G)   Distribute, deal in, process, or use crowns, stamps, or seals required
under the authority of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, except in accordance with the rules
and regulations prescribed by the State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
   (H)   Manufacture or sell, aid, or abet in the manufacture or sale, possess,
transport or ship, use, or in any other manner provide or furnish powdered
alcohol; and
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-7)
   (I)   Manufacture, sell, give, or offer to make a sale or gift of,
transport, or otherwise possess any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer
except as permitted by W. Va. Code Ch. 11 and 60.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.093 UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION BY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (A)   No person licensed under W. Va. Code Ch. 60 shall:
      (1)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors of a kind other
than that which the license or W. Va. Code Ch. 60 authorizes him or her to
sell;
      (2)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve beer to which wine, spirits, or
alcohol has been added;
      (3)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve wine to which other alcoholic
spirits have been added, otherwise than as required in the manufacture of the
wine under rules of the Commission;
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-8)
      (4)   (a)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors or non-
intoxicating beer to a person who is:
            1.   Less than 21 years of age;
            2.   An habitual drunkard;
            3.   Intoxicated;
            4.   Addicted to the use of any controlled substance as defined by
W. Va. Code Ch. 60A; and/or
            5.   Mentally incompetent.
         (b)   It shall be a defense to a violation of division (A)(4)(a)1.
above if the seller shows that the purchaser:
            1.   Produced written evidence which showed his or her age to be at
least the required age for purchase and which bore a physical description of
the person named on the writing which reasonably described the purchaser; or
            2.   Produced evidence of other facts that reasonably indicated at
the time of sale that the purchaser was at least the required age.
(W. Va. Code §§ 60-3-22, 60-6-8)
      (5)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors except as
authorized by his or her license;
      (6)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve alcoholic liquors other than by the
drink, poured from the alcoholic liquors’ original container; provided, that
under certain requirements exceptions to liquor by the drink are as follows:
         (a)   A private club licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. that
is in good standing with the Commissioner and has paid a $1,000 on-premises
only bottle service fee to the Commissioner, may sell or serve liquor by the
bottle to two or more persons for consumption on the licensed premises only,
and any liquor bottle sold by such a private club shall be sold at retail for
personal use, and not for resale, to a person for not less than 300% of the
private club’s cost, and the liquor bottle shall be removed from the licensed
premises by any person or the licensee; and
         (b)   A Class A licensee licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq.,
may sell or serve wine by the bottle to two or more persons for consumption on
the licensed premises only, unless such licensee has obtained a license or
privilege authorizing other activity.
      (7)   (a)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve pre-mixed alcoholic liquor
that is not in the original container; provided, that a licensee may sell,
furnish, tender, and serve up to 15 recipes of pre-mixed beverages consisting
of alcoholic liquors and non-alcoholic mixer, in a manner approved by the
Commissioner and in accord with public health and safety standards:
            1.   The licensee shall use approved dispensing and storage
equipment which shall be cleaned at the end of the day. Failure to clean the
dispensing and storage equipment shall result in the immediate suspension or
revocation of the permit;
            2.   The licensee shall sanitize and clean the pre-mixing beverage
storage equipment after each use or after each batch of the pre-mixed beverage
is made; and
            3.   The licensee shall maintain a written record reflecting the
cleaning and sanitizing of the storage and dispensing equipment for inspection
by the Commissioner and health inspectors.
         (2)   A violation or violations of this subdivision may result in the
suspension or revocation of the permit and may result in additional sanctions
under W. Va. Code Ch. 60 or §§ 11-16-1 et seq.
      (8)   Sell, furnish, tender, or serve any alcoholic liquor when forbidden
by the provisions of this subchapter;
      (9)   Sell, possess, possess for sale, tender, serve, furnish, or provide
any powdered alcohol; and/or
      (10)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license alcoholic
liquor other than that which he or she is authorized to sell, furnish, tender,
or serve by such license or by this subchapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-8)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.094 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS FROM STATE AGENCY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Being under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency, misrepresent his or
her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which
is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency; and/or
   (B)   Knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish to anyone under the age of 21
years, to whom they are not related by blood or marriage, any alcoholic liquors
from whatever source.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3-22a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.095 INTOXICATING OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   (A)   A person shall not:
      (1)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in a public place;
      (3)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer to
another person in a public place;
      (4)   Operate a business without a license issued under W. Va. Code §§
60-1-1 et seq., which knowingly facilitates the consumption of alcoholic
liquors in a public place by providing for on-site items such as cups, glasses,
ice, and non-alcoholic beverages used to mix with alcoholic liquors,
refrigeration, or on-site storage of alcoholic liquors in a lounge area or
space for persons to gather, perhaps offering musical entertainment, exotic
dancing, or other such nude entertainment, or other similar activity or
entertainment. Such business may be commonly known as a “bring your own
bottle,” “ bring your own booze,” or “BYOB” establishments;
      (5)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of ten gallons, in
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the State Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner, without having first obtained written authority from the
Commissioner therefor; or
      (6)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest without a warrant and take the
following actions against a person who, in his or her presence, violates
division (A)(1) above:
      (1)   If there is some non-intoxicated person who will accept
responsibility for the intoxicated person, the officer may issue the
intoxicated person a citation specifying the date for appearance before a
judicial officer and release him or her to the custody of the individual
accepting responsibility; provided, that the issuance of a citation shall be
used whenever feasible;
      (2)   If it does not impose an undue burden on the officer, he or she
may, after issuance of the citation, transport the individual to the
individual’s present residence or arrange for the transportation;
       (3)   If the individual is incapacitated or the alternatives provided in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above are not possible, the officer shall transport
or arrange for transportation to the appropriate judicial officer as defined by
W. Va. Code § 27-11-17; or
      (4)   If the individual is incapacitated and, in the law enforcement
officer’s judgment, is in need of acute medical attention, that officer shall
arrange for transportation by ambulance or otherwise to a hospital emergency
room. The officer shall accompany the individual until he or she is discharged
from the emergency room or admitted to the hospital. If the individual is
released from the emergency room, the officer may proceed as described in
divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(3) above. If the individual is admitted to
the hospital, the officer shall issue a citation to the individual specifying a
date for appearance before a judicial officer.
   (C)   (1)   Upon presentment before the proper judicial officer, the law
enforcement officer serves as the chief complaining witness. The judicial
officer shall determine if there is probative evidence that the individual may
be guilty of the charge of public intoxication. If such evidence is not
presented, the charge shall be dismissed and the individual released. If
sufficient evidence is presented, the judicial officer shall issue a warrant
and establish bail or issue a summons to the individual.
      (2)   Once a warrant or summons has been issued, the following actions
may be taken:
         (a)   If the individual is no longer incapacitated, he or she may be
released;
         (b)   If the individual is still incapacitated but a non-intoxicated
person is available to accept responsibility for him or her, he or she may be
released to the responsible person; or
         (c)   If the individual is still incapacitated and no responsible
person is available, the judicial officer shall proceed under the provisions of
W. Va. Code Art. 27-5 or Ch. 6A.
   (D)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest and hold in custody, without a
warrant, until complaint may be made before a judicial officer and a warrant or
summons issued, any person who in the presence of the law enforcement officer
violates any one or more of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above; provided,
that the law enforcement officer may use reasonable force to prevent harm to
himself or herself, the individual arrested or others in carrying out the
provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.096 ACTS PROHIBITED BY NON-INTOXICATING BEER LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any licensee, his, her, its, or their servants, agents, or
employees, to sell, give, or dispense, or any individual to drink or consume,
in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected, non-
intoxicating beer on weekdays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
except in private clubs licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code Art. 60-7,
where the hours shall conform with the hours of sale of alcoholic liquors;
      (2)   For any licensee, his, her, its, or their servants, agents, or
employees to sell, furnish, or give any non-intoxicating beer, as defined in
this subchapter, to any person visibly or noticeably intoxicated or to any
person known to be insane or known to be a habitual drunkard;
      (3)   For any licensee, his, her, its, or their servants, agents, or
employees to sell, furnish, or give any non-intoxicating beer, as defined in
this subchapter, to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   For any distributor to sell or offer to sell, or any retailer to
purchase or receive, any non-intoxicating beer, as defined in this subchapter,
except for cash and a right of action shall not exist to collect any claims for
credit extended contrary to the provisions of this division (A)(4). Nothing
contained in this section prohibits a licensee from crediting to a purchasing
person the actual price charged for packages or containers returned by the
original purchasing person as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any
purchasing person the amount paid or deposited for the containers when title is
retained by the vendor; provided, that a distributor may accept an electronic
transfer of funds if the transfer of funds is initiated by an irrevocable
payment order on the invoiced amount for the non-intoxicating beer. The cost of
the electronic fund transfer shall be borne by the retailer and the distributor
shall initiate the transfer no later than noon of one business day after the
delivery;
      (5)   For any brewer or distributor to give, furnish, rent, or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs, supplies, or services directly or indirectly or
through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products
of the brewing industry at retail or to offer any prize, premium, gift, or
other similar inducement, except advertising matter, including indoor
electronic or mechanical signs, of nominal value up to $25 per stock keeping
unit, to either trade or consumer buyers; provided, that a distributor may
offer, for sale or rent, tanks of carbonic gas; provided, however, that, in the
interest of public health and safety, a distributor may, independently or
through a subsidiary or affiliate, furnish, sell, install, or maintain draught
line equipment, supplies, and cleaning services to a licensed retailer so long
as the furnishing or sell of draught line services may be negotiated at no less
than actual cost; provided, further, that a distributor may furnish, rent, or
sell equipment, fixtures, signs, services, or supplies directly or indirectly
or through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling
products of the brewing industry at retail under the conditions and within the
limitations as prescribed in this section. Nothing contained in this section
prohibits a brewer from sponsoring any professional or amateur athletic event,
or from providing prizes or awards for participants and winners in any events;
      (6)   For any brewer or distributor to sponsor any professional or
amateur athletic event or provide prizes or awards for participants and winners
when a majority of the athletes participating in the event are minors, unless
specifically authorized by the Commissioner;
      (7)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense non-intoxicating beer
through draught lines where the draught lines have not been cleaned at least
every two weeks in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commissioner, and
where written records of all cleanings are not maintained and available for
inspection;
      (8)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises any lewd,
immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice;
      (9)   For any licensee, except the holder of a license to operate a
private club issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. or a
holder of a license or a private wine restaurant issued under the provisions of
W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq., to possess a federal license, tax receipt, or
other permit entitling, authorizing, or allowing the licensee to sell liquor or
alcoholic drinks other than non-intoxicating beer;
      (10)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his or
her premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes, or any means which would prevent
plain view of the patrons occupying the premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times; provided, that provisions of
this division (A)(10) do not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer, the
premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-
7-1 et seq., or the premises of a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq.;
      (11)   For any licensee to manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter,
possess, or acquiesce in the sale, possession, or consumption of any alcoholic
liquors on the premises covered by a license or on premises directly or
indirectly used in connection with it; provided, that the prohibition contained
in this division (A)(11) with respect to the selling or possessing or to the
acquiescence in the sale, possession, or consumption of alcoholic liquors is
not applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., nor shall
the prohibition be applicable to a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. insofar as the private wine
restaurant is authorized to serve wine;
      (12)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense non-intoxicating beer,
as defined in this subchapter, purchased, or acquired from any source other
than a distributor, brewer, or manufacturer licensed under the laws of the
state;
      (13)   For any licensee to permit loud, boisterous, or disorderly conduct
of any kind upon his or her premises or to permit the use of loud musical
instruments if either or any of the same may disturb the peace and quietude of
the community where the business is located: provided, that a licensee may have
speaker systems for outside broadcasting as long as the noise levels do not
create a public nuisance or violate local noise ordinances;
      (14)   For any person whose license has been revoked, as provided in this
subchapter, to obtain employment with any retailer within the period of one
year from the date of the revocation, or for any retailer to knowingly employ
that person within the specified time;
      (15)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport, or
distribute non-intoxicating beer except in the original container;
      (16)   For any licensee to knowingly permit any act to be done upon the
licensed premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws
of the state or municipality;
      (17)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of non-
intoxicating beer upon his or her licensed premises;
      (18)   For any Class A licensee, his, her, its, or their servants,
agents, or employees, or for any licensee by or through any servants, agents,
or employees, to allow, suffer, or permit any person less than 18 years of age
to loiter in or upon any licensed premises; except, however, that the
provisions of this division (A)(18) do not apply where a person under the age
of 18 years is in or upon the premises in the immediate company of a parent or
legal guardian, or where and while a person under the age of 18 years is in or
upon the premises for the purpose of and actually making a lawful purchase of
any items or commodities sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving
any lawful service rendered in the licensed premises, including the consumption
of any item of food, drink, or soft drink lawfully prepared and served or sold
for consumption on the premises;
      (19)   For any distributor to sell, offer for sale, distribute, or
deliver any non-intoxicating beer outside the territory assigned to any
distributor by the brewer or manufacturer of non-intoxicating beer or to sell,
offer for sale, distribute, or deliver non-intoxicating beer to any retailer
whose principal place of business or licensed premises is within the assigned
territory of another distributor of the non-intoxicating beer; provided, that
nothing in this section is considered to prohibit sales of convenience between
distributors licensed in the state where one distributor sells, transfers, or
delivers to another distributor a particular brand or brands for sale at
wholesale; and
      (20)   For any licensee or any agent, servant, or employee of any
licensee to knowingly violate any rule lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner
in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 29A.
   (B)   (1)   A Class B licensee that:
         (a)   Has installed a transaction scan device on its licensed
premises; and
         (b)   Can demonstrate that it requires each employee, servant, or
agent to verify the age of any individual to whom non-intoxicating beer or non-
intoxicating craft beer is sold, furnished, or given away by the use of the
transaction device.
         (c)   A Class B license is not is not subject to the provisions of (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above if:
            1.   Any criminal penalties whatsoever, including those set forth
in §
130.999(I);
            2.   Any administrative penalties from the Commissioner; or
            3.   a.   Any civil liability whatsoever for the improper sale,
furnishing, or giving away of non-intoxicating beer or non-intoxicating craft
beer to an individual who is less than 21 years of age by one of his or her
employees, servants, or agents.
               b.   Any agent, servant, or employee who has improperly sold,
furnished, or given away non-intoxicating beer to an individual less than 21
years of age is subject to the criminal penalties of §
130.999(I). Any agent, servant, or employee who has improperly sold, furnish,
or given away non-intoxicating beer to an individual less than 21 years of age
is subject to termination from employment, and the employer shall have no civil
liability for the termination.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a Class B licensee can demonstrate
that it requires each employee, servant, or agent to verify the age of any
individual to whom non-intoxicating beer is sold by providing evidence:
         (a)   It has developed a written policy which requires each employee,
servant, or agent to verify the age of each individual to whom non-intoxicating
beer will be sold, furnished, or given away;
         (b)   It has communicated this policy to each employee, servant, or
agent; and
         (c)   It monitors the actions of its employees, servants, or agents
regarding the sale, furnishing, or giving away of non-intoxicating beer, and
that it has taken corrective action for any discovered non-compliance with this
policy.
      (3)   TRANSACTION SCAN means the process by which a person checks, by
means of a transaction scan device, the age and identity of the cardholder, and
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE means any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information enclosed on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver’s license, or other governmental identity card.
   (C)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule of the Commissioner, shall
prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from employing any person who
is at least 18 years of age to serve in the licensee’s lawful employ, including
the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating beer, as defined in this subchapter.
With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee whose principal
business is the sale of food or consumer goods, or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores, may employ persons who
are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age; provided, that the
person’s duties may include the sale of non-intoxicating beer or alcoholic
liquors only when directly supervised by a person 21 years of age or older;
provided, however, that the authorization to employ persons under the age of 18
years shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-18) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.097 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   (A)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess, or serve non-intoxicating beer.
      (2)   (a)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit
any person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful
employment of any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of non-
intoxicating beer.
         (b)   Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of
the Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18 but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods, or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores; provided, that such
person shall not sell or deliver non-intoxicating beer.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer when
he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of
any member of a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency or the State
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes, and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of purchasing non-
intoxicating beer shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose
present or offer any written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent, or not
actually his or her own, or shall illegally attempt to purchase non-
intoxicating beer.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish non-
intoxicating beer to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom they are not
related by blood or marriage.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-19) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.098 ACTS PROHIBITED BY PRIVATE CLUB LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent, employee, or member thereof
on such licensee’s premises, to:
      (1)   Sell, offer for sale, tender, or serve any alcoholic liquors other
than by the drink poured from the original package or container, except as
authorized in §
130.093;
      (2)   (a)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace, or obscene,
lewd, immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice; and
         (b)   A private resort hotel holding a license issued pursuant to W.
Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. may sell, tender, or dispense non-intoxicating beer,
wine, or alcoholic liquors in or on the premises licensed under W. Va. Code §§
29-22A-1 et seq. and 29-22C-1 et seq., or W. Va. Code §§ 29-25-1 et seq.,
during hours of operation authorized by W. Va. Code §§ 29-22A-1 et seq., and
29-22C-1 et seq. or 29-25-1 et seq.
      (3)   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of, gift to, or the procurement
of any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors for or to, or permit
the consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors on the
licensee’s premises, by any person less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of, gift to, or the procurement
of any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors for or to any person
known to be considered legally incompetent, or for or to any person who is
physically incapacitated due to consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
      (5)   Sell, give, or dispense non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected
therewith between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays, Saturdays,
and Sundays, or between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. in any county,
upon approval as provided for in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3ss, on any Sunday;
      (6)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises
any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors, covered by this
subchapter, to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (7)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change, or misrepresent the
quality, quantity, or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
      (8)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues-paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member;
      (9)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, facilitate the use of, or allow
the use of carbon dioxide, cyclopropane, ethylene, helium, or nitrous oxide for
purposes of human consumption, except as authorized by the Commissioner;
      (10)   (a)   Employ any person who is less than 16 years of age in a
position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors to any person;
         (b)   Employ any person who is between 16 years of age and younger
than 21 years of age who is not directly supervised by a person aged 21 or over
in a position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors to any person; or
      (11)   Violate any reasonable rule of the Commissioner.
   (B)   It is lawful for any licensee to advertise price and brand in any news
media or other means, outside of the licensee’s premises.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.099 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM PRIVATE CLUB.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee or consume any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquors purchased from a private club licensee or possess any non-
intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee.
Provided, that nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer,
wine, or alcoholic liquors when he or she is acting upon the request of or
under the direction and control of any member of a state, federal, or local
law-enforcement agency or the State Alcohol Beverage Administration while the
agency is conducting an investigation or other activity relating to the
enforcement of the alcohol beverage control statutes and the rules and
regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors from a private club licensee,
shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose present or offer any
written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her
own, or illegally attempt to purchase non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 years any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.100 ACTS PROHIBITED BY WINE DEALERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a person registered under the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 60-8-6, or for a retailer to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a licensed distributor or a farm winery as
defined in W. Va. Code § 60-1-5a;
      (2)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for by the provisions of W.
Va. Code Art. 60-8, for a licensee under W. Va. Code Art. 60-8 to acquire,
transport, possess for sale, or sell wine other than in the original package;
      (3)   For a licensee, or his or her servants, agents, or employees, to
sell, furnish, or give wine to any person less than 21 years of age or to a
mentally incompetent person or person who is physically incapacitated due to
the consumption of alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs; provided, that the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 60-3A-25a shall apply to sales of wine;
      (4)   For a licensee to permit a person who is less than 18 years of age
to sell, furnish, or give wine to any person, except as provided for in
division (B) below;
      (5)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver any brand of wine
purchased or acquired from any source other than the primary source of supply
of the wine which granted the distributor the right to sell such brand at
wholesale. For the purposes of this division (E), PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY
means the vintner of the wine, the importer of a foreign wine who imports the
wine into the United States, the owner of a wine at the time it becomes a
marketable product, the bottler of a wine, or an agent specifically authorized
by any of the above enumerated persons to make a sale of the wine to a state
distributor; provided, that no retailer shall sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a distributor or farm winery licensed as
such in the state; provided, however, that nothing herein is considered to
prohibit sales of convenience between distributors licensed in the state
wherein one such distributor sells, transfers, or delivers to another such
distributor a particular brand or brands for sale at wholesale of which brand
or brands such other distributor has been authorized by a licensed supplier to
distribute. The Commissioner shall promulgate legislative rules necessary to
carry out the provision of this division (E); and
      (6)   For a person to violate any rule promulgated by the Commissioner
under W. Va. Code Art. 60-8.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in any licensee’s
lawful employment, including the sale of wine or distribution of wine on behalf
of a winery, farm winery, farm entity, supplier, or distributor under the
provisions of this section. With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a
licensee may employ persons who are less than 18 years of age but at least 16
years of age; provided, that the person’s duties may include the sale of non-
intoxicating beer or wine only when directly supervised by a person 21 years of
age or older; provided, however, that the authorization to employ persons under
18 years of age shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license; provided,
further, that nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 21 years of age for the ordering and
delivery of wine when licensed for the ordering and delivery of wine under the
provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8-20) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.101 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF WINE.
   (A)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess, or serve wine or other alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of wine. Further, nothing
in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Commissioner, shall prevent
or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less than 18 but at least 16 years
of age from being employed by a licensee whose principal business is the sale
of food or consumer goods or the providing of recreational activities,
including, but not limited to, nationally franchised fast food outlets, family-
oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery
stores, and convenience stores; provided, that such person shall not sell or
deliver wine or alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing wine or alcoholic liquor
when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control
of any member of a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency or the State
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
wine or other alcoholic liquors from a licensee, shall misrepresent his or her
age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is
false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase wine or other alcoholic liquors.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish wine or other
alcoholic liquors from any source to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom
they are not related by blood or marriage.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8-20a) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.102 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is 18 or over but under the age of 21 years shall
purchase, consume, sell, serve, or possess alcoholic liquor. Any person who is
under 18 years who purchases, consumes, sells, serves, or possesses alcoholic
liquor is guilty of a status offense, as that term is defined in W. Va. Code §
49-1-206, and, upon adjudication therefor, shall be referred to the Department
of Health and Human Resources for services, as provided in W. Va. Code § 49-5-
103.
      (2)   Nothing is this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
a licensee, which includes the sale and serving of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor when he or
she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any
member of a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency or the State
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, for the purpose of
purchasing liquor from a retail licensee, misrepresent his or her age, or for
such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is false,
fraudulent, or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to purchase
liquor from a retail licensee.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to, or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 to whom he or she is not related by blood or marriage any liquor
from whatever source.
   (D)   No person while on the premises of a retail outlet shall consume
liquor or break the seal on any package or bottle of liquor.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3A-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.103 HARD CIDER.
   (A)   HARD CIDER means a type of wine that is derived primarily from the
fermentation of apples, pears, peaches, honey, or other fruit, or from apple,
pear, peach, or other fruit juice concentrate and water; contains no more than
0.64 grams of carbon dioxide per 100 milliliters; contains at least 0.5% and
less than 12.5% alcohol by volume; and is advertised, labeled, offered for
sale, or sold, as hard cider or cider containing alcohol, and not as a wine,
wine product, or as a substitute for wine.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8A-1)
   (B)   Except as stated in W. Va. Code Art. 60-8A, all wine licenses and
other wine requirements set forth in W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq., 60-4-3b,
and 60-6-2, shall apply to the manufacture, distribution, or sale of hard
cider. Any person or licensee legally authorized to manufacture, distribute, or
sell wine may manufacture, distribute, or sell hard cider in the same manner
and to the same persons, and subject to the same limitations and conditions, as
such license or legal right authorizes him or her to manufacture, distribute,
or sell wine. No additional wine license fees shall be charged for the
privilege of manufacturing, distributing, or selling hard cider.
   (C)   Except as stated in W. Va. Code Art. 60-8A, all hard cider
distributors are bound by all wine distribution requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq., 60-4-3b, and 60-6-2, which shall apply to
distribution of hard cider. Any person or licensee legally authorized to
distribute hard cider may distribute hard cider in the same manner and to the
same persons, and subject to the same limitations and conditions, as a license
or legal right would authorize him or her to distribute wine. An additional
hard cider license fee shall not be charged for the privilege of distributing
hard cider.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8A-2) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.104 OFF-PREMISES SALES NOT REQUIRED TO BE BAGGED.
   (A)   A licensee who is licensed for off-premises sales of non-intoxicating
beer or non-intoxicating craft beer is not required to place non-intoxicating
beer or non-intoxicating craft beer in a bag.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-5a)
   (B)   Alcoholic liquors in the state are not required to be placed in a bag
by a licensee who is licensed for off-premises sales of alcoholic liquors.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-3a)
§ 130.105 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If there shall be a complaint on oath or affirmation, supported by affidavit
setting forth the facts, for such belief that alcoholic liquors are being
manufactured, sold, kept, stored, or in any manner held, used, or concealed in
a particular house or other place in violation of law, the Police Judge, to
whom such complaint is made, if satisfied that there is a probable cause for
such belief, shall issue a warrant to search such house or other place for
alcoholic liquors. Such warrants, except as herein otherwise provide, shall be
issued, directed, and executed in accordance with the laws of the state
pertaining to search warrants.
(Ord. 200-03, passed 5-5-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see W. Va. Code § 3-17
MINORS
§ 130.120 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   No person 18 years of age or older shall knowingly contribute to or
encourage the delinquency of a child.
   (B)   As used in this section, DELINQUENCY means the violation or attempted
violation of any federal or state statute, county or municipal ordinance, or a
court order, or the habitual or continual refusal to comply, without just
cause, with the lawful supervision or direction of a parent, guardian, or
custodian.
   (C)   In addition to any penalty provided under §
130.999 and any restitution which may be ordered by the court pursuant to W.
Va. Code § 61-11A-5, the court may order any person convicted of a violation of
division (A) above to pay all or any portion of the cost of medical,
psychological, or psychiatric treatment provided the child resulting from the
acts for which the person is convicted.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any parent, guardian, or custodian who
fails or refuses, or allows another person to fail or refuse, to supply a child
under the care, custody, or control of the parent, guardian, or custodian with
necessary medical care, when medical care conflicts with the tenets and
practices of a recognized religious denomination or order of which parent,
guardian, or custodian is an adherent or member.
   (E)   It is not an essential element of the offense created by this section
that the minor actually be delinquent.
   (F)   Upon conviction, the court may suspend the sentence of a person found
guilty under this section. A suspended sentence may be subjected to the
following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The offender pays for any and all treatment, support, and
maintenance while the child is in the custody of the state or person that the
court determines reasonable and necessary for the welfare of the child;
      (2)   The offender posts a sufficient bond to secure the payment for all
sums ordered to be paid under this section, as long as the bond does not exceed
$5,000; and
      (3)   The offender participates in any program or training that will
assist the child in correcting the delinquent behavior or, in the case of
neglect, that will assist the offender in correcting his or her behavior that
led to violation of this section.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The penalty of a bond given upon suspension of a sentence
which becomes forfeited is recoverable without a separate suit.
         (b)   The court may cause a citation or a summons to issue to the
principal and surety, requiring that they appear at a time named by the court,
not less than ten days, from the issuance of the summons, and show cause why a
judgment should not be entered for the penalty of the bond and execution issued
against the property of the principal and the surety.
      (2)   (a)   Any money collected or paid upon an execution, or upon the
bond, shall be deposited with the Clerk of the court in which the bond was
given.
         (b)   The money shall be applied first to the payment of all court
costs and then to the treatment, care, or maintenance of the child who was at
issue when the offender was convicted of this section.
   (H)   If the guilty person had custody of the child prior to conviction, the
court or judge may, on suspending sentence, permit the child to remain in the
custody of the person, and make it a condition of suspending sentence that the
person provides whatever treatment and care may be required for the welfare of
the child, and shall do whatever may be calculated to secure obedience to the
law or to remove the cause of the delinquency.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8D-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.121 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse, or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody, or control of any minor child, shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological, or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the
need for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-24) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.122 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (A)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether the property be real, personal, or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing, and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT OR PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
   (C)   (1)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall
include, but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county
commission, and board of education, or other political subdivision of the state
or any person or organization of any kind or character.
      (2)   The action may be brought in magistrate or another court of
competent jurisdiction. Recovery hereunder shall be limited to the actual
damages, based upon direct out-of-pocket loss, taxable court costs, and
interest from date of judgment.
      (3)   The right of action and remedy granted herein shall be in addition
to and not exclusive of any rights of action and remedies therefor against a
parent or parents for the tortious acts of his or their children heretofor
existing under the provisions of any law, statutory or otherwise, or now so
existing independently of the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2)
§ 130.123 ABANDONED AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance, or other
airtight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet, without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-26) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.124 TOBACCO USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any non-combustible product containing
nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed,
dissolved, or ingested by any other means. ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT does
not include any tobacco product, vapor product, or product regulated as a drug
or device by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT AND TOBACCO-DERIVED PRODUCT.
         (a)   Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco, or
containing nicotine derived from tobacco, that is intended for human
consumption, whether smoked, breathed, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled,
vaporized, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, cigarillos, little cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
snus, chewing tobacco, or other common tobacco-containing products.
         (b)   A TOBACCO-DERIVED PRODUCT includes electronic cigarettes or
similar devices, alternative nicotine products, and vapor products. TOBACCO
PRODUCT or TOBACCO-DERIVED PRODUCT does not include any product that is
regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of
the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      VAPOR PRODUCT.
         (a)   Any non-combustible product containing nicotine that employs a
heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or other electronic,
chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape and size, that can be used
to produce vapor from nicotine in a solution or other form.
         (b)   VAPOR PRODUCT includes any electronic cigarette, electronic
cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device, and
any vapor cartridge or other container of nicotine in a solution or other form
that is intended to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic
cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device.
VAPOR PRODUCT does not include any product that is regulated by the United
States Food and Drug Administration under Chapter V of the Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, or business entity may sell, give, or
furnish, or cause to be sold, given, or furnished, to any person under the age
of 18 years:
      (1)   Any pipe, cigarette paper, or any other paper prepared,
manufactured, or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco or tobacco
product;
      (2)   Any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, or tobacco product,
in any form; or
      (3)   Any tobacco-derived product, alternative nicotine product, or vapor
product.
   (C)   (1)   Any employer who discovers that his or her employee has sold or
furnished tobacco products or tobacco-derived products to minors may dismiss
such employee for cause.
      (2)   Any such discharge shall be considered as “gross misconduct” for
the purposes of determining the discharged employee’s eligibility for
unemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 21A-6-
3 if the employer has provided the employee with prior written notice in the
workplace that such act or acts may result in their termination from
employment.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-2)
   (D)   A person under the age of 18 years shall not have on or about his or
her person or premises or use any cigarette, or cigarette paper, or any other
paper prepared, manufactured, or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco
products, in any form; any pipe, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco-derived product; provided, that minors participating in the inspection
of locations where tobacco products or tobacco-derived products are sold or
distributed pursuant to W. Va. Code § 16-9A-7 is not considered to violate the
provisions of this division (D).
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-3)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.125 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE MINOR PRESENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIT TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any lighted pipe, cigarette, cigar, or other lighted
device or product containing a tobacco-based product manufactured or made for
the purpose of smoking.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A Class A, Class B, Class H, or Class J vehicle as those
terms are defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1.
   (B)   No person who is 18 years of age or older may smoke or possess a lit
tobacco product in a motor vehicle if an individual 16 years of age or less is
in the motor vehicle.
   (C)   Enforcement of this section may only be accomplished as a secondary
action when a driver of a vehicle, as defined in this section, has been
detained for probable cause of violating another section of the traffic code or
this subchapter.
   (D)   Each time a driver of a vehicle is detained for probable cause of
violating another provision of the traffic code or this subchapter and is cited
for the offense created pursuant to this section, it shall be considered a
single offense regardless of the number of individuals 16 years of age or less
in the motor vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-11)
OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
§ 130.140 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act that places another in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
   (B)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature to the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.141 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No person shall commit an assault:
      (1)   By unlawfully attempting to commit a violent injury to the person
of a school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or
her duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment, or if the
motive for the assault is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to
supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code § 18A-5-1 or
1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully committing an act which places a school employee in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury while the
employee is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or
from his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the assault is
retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline
one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code § 18A-5-1 or 1a.
   (B)   No person shall commit a battery:
      (1)   By unlawfully and intentionally making physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with the person of a school employee while he or
she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or from
his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the battery is retaliation
for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline one or more
pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code § 18A-5-1 or 1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a school
employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is
commuting to or from his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the
battery is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or
discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code § 18A-5-1 or 1a.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, SCHOOL EMPLOYEE means a person
employed by a county board of education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis, or otherwise. For the purposes of this section, a
SCHOOL EMPLOYEE includes a STUDENT TEACHER.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-15) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.142 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON CERTAIN PERSONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed by the State Division of
Corrections or the State Regional Jail Authority.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE PERSONNEL. Any paid or volunteer firefighter, emergency
medical technician, paramedic, or other emergency services personnel employed
by or under contract with an emergency medical service provider or a state
agency or political subdivision thereof.
      GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE. Any officer or employee of the state or a
political subdivision thereof, or a person under contract with a state agency
or political subdivision thereof.
      HEALTH CARE WORKER. Any nurse, nurse practitioner, physician, physician
assistant, or technician practicing at, and all persons employed by or under
contract to, a hospital, county or district health department, long-term care
facility, physician’s office, clinic, or outpatient treatment facility.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The same definition as this term is defined in
W. Va. Code § 30-29-1, except for purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER shall additionally include those individuals defined as CHIEF EXECUTIVE
in W. Va. Code § 30-29-1.
      UTILITY WORKER. Any individual employed by a public utility or electric
cooperative or under contract to a public utility, electric cooperative, or
interstate pipeline.
   (B)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully, knowingly, and intentionally make
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with a government
representative, health care worker, utility worker, emergency service
personnel, correctional employee, or law enforcement officer acting in his or
her official capacity and the person committing the battery knows or has reason
to know that the victim is acting in his or her official capacity, or
unlawfully and intentionally causes physical harm to that person acting in such
capacity and the person committing the battery knows or has reason to know that
the victim is acting in his or her official capacity.
   (C)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of a government representative, health care worker, utility
worker, emergency service personnel, correctional employee, or law enforcement
officer acting in his or her official capacity and the person committing the
battery knows or has reason to know that the victim is acting in his or her
official capacity, or unlawfully commits an act which places that person acting
in his or her official capacity in reasonable apprehension of immediately
receiving a violent injury and the person committing the battery knows or has
reason to know that the victim is acting in his or her official capacity.
   (D)   Incarceration. Any person convicted of any crime set forth in this
section who is incarcerated in a facility operated by the State Division of
Corrections or the State Regional Jail Authority, at the time of committing the
offense and whose victim is a correctional employee, may not be sentenced in a
manner by which the sentence would run concurrent with any other sentence being
served at the time of sentencing, but shall run consecutively to the current
sentence.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-10(b)) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.143 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Except as authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A, it is unlawful for any
person to manufacture, deliver, or possess with intent to manufacturer or
deliver, a controlled substance.
   (B)   Except as authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A, it is unlawful for any
person to create, deliver, or possess with intent to deliver a counterfeit
substance.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess a
controlled substance unless the substance was obtained directly from, or
pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in
the course of his or her professional practice, or except as otherwise
authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
(W. Va. Code § 60A-4-401)
   (D)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally:
         (a)   To create, distribute, or deliver, or possess with intent to
distribute or deliver, an imitation controlled substance; or
         (b)   To create, possess, or sell, or otherwise transfer, any
equipment with the intent that the equipment shall be used to apply a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, number, or device,
or any likeness thereof, upon a counterfeit substance, an imitation controlled
substance, or the container or label of a counterfeit substance or an imitation
controlled substance.
      (2)   The provisions of division (D)(1)(a) above shall not apply to a
practitioner who administers or dispenses a placebo.
(W. Va. Code § 60A-4-401)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.144 BREATHING, INHALING, DRINKING CERTAIN INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally breathe, inhale, or drink any compound,
liquid, or chemical containing acetone, amylacetate, benzol or benzene, butyl
acetate, butyl alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, cyclohexanone,
ethanol or ethyl alcohol, ethyl acetate, hexane, isopropanol or isopropyl
alcohol, isopropyl acetate, methyl “cellosolve” acetate, methyl ethyl ketone,
methyl isobutyl ketone, toluol or toluene, trichloroethylene, tricresyl
phosphate, xylol or xylene, or any other solvent, material substance, chemical,
or combination thereof, having the property or releasing toxic vapors for the
purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis, or irrational behavior or in any manner changing,
distorting, or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental processes. For the
purposes of this section, any condition so induced shall be deemed to be an
intoxicated condition.
   (B)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who commits any act described herein pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to so
direct or prescribe, including the inhalation of anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes; or
      (2)   To any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer as defined in W.
Va. Code § 60-1-5.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
§ 130.155 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARD-NOT-PRESENT CREDIT OR DEBIT TRANSACTION. A credit or debit sale of
merchandise by telephone, mail order, internet, or other means that does not
require the cardholder’s signature or physical presentation of the credit or
debit card to the merchant.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold, or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents, or other agents.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held,
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuffs, wares, or personal property, or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held, or offered
for sale, or a shopping cart.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of the merchandise,
or in the event of altering, transferring, or removing a price marking or
causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail
value of the merchandise, as defined in division (B) below, the difference
between the merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the altered price.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-6)
   (B)   Shoplifting defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of shoplifting if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         (a)   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         (b)   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         (c)   Alters, transfers, or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         (d)   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         (e)   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         (f)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment; or
         (g)   Repudiates a card-not-present credit or debit transaction after
having taken delivery of merchandise ordered from the merchant and does not
return the merchandise or attempt to make other arrangements with the vendor.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-1)
   (C)   Breach of peace; detention.
      (1)   An act of shoplifting as defined herein, is hereby declared to
constitute a breach of peace and any owner of merchandise, his or her agent or
employee, or any law enforcement officer who has reasonable ground to believe
that a person has committed shoplifting, may detain such person in a reasonable
manner and for a reasonable length of time not to exceed 30 minutes, for the
purpose of investigating whether or not such person has committed or attempted
to commit shoplifting.
      (2)   Such reasonable detention shall not constitute an arrest nor shall
it render the owner of merchandise, or his or her agent or employee, liable to
the person detained.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-4)
   (D)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         (b)   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         (c)   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-2)
   (E)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         (a)   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         (b)   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
and
         (c)   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not
including the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile
establishment or any merchant in connection with the apprehension and
processing of the suspect.
      (2)   Costs and attorneys’ fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party
under this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by §
130.999(L) hereof is not entitled to recover the penalty imposed by this
section.
      (4)   Right to demand payment. The fact that a mercantile establishment
may bring an action against an individual, as provided in this section, does
not limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in writing, that
a person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this section remit such
damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal action.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.156 DEFINITIONS OF TRESPASS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car, railroad engine,
trailer, aircraft, or sleeping car, and TO ENTER A CONVEYANCE includes taking
apart any portion of the CONVEYANCE.
   CULTIVATED LAND. The land which has been cleared of its natural vegetation
and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture, or trees or is
fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
   FENCED LAND.
      (1)   (a)   The land which has been enclosed by a fence of substantial
construction, whether with rails, logs, post, and railing, iron, steel, barbed
wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three feet in height.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, it shall not be necessary to
fence any boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water
and is posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Where lands are posted, cultivated, or fenced as described herein,
then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be considered as
enclosed and posted.
   IN THE COURSE OF COMMITTING. An act that is committed if it occurs in an
attempt to commit the offense or in flight after the attempt or commission.
   POSTED LAND. Land that has:
      (1)   (a)   Signs placed not more than 500 feet apart, along and at each
corner of the boundaries of the land. The signs shall be reasonably maintained,
with letters of not less than two inches in height, and the words “no
trespassing.”
         (b)   The signs shall be placed along the boundary line and at all
roads, driveways, and gates of entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line; or
      (2)   (a)   Boundaries marked with a clearly visible purple painted
marking, consisting of one vertical line no less than eight inches in length
and two inches in width, and the bottom of the mark not less than three nor
more than six feet from the ground or normal water surface.
         (b)   Such marks shall be affixed to immovable, permanent objects that
are no more than 100 feet apart and readily visible to any person approaching
the property.
         (c)   Signs shall also be posted at all roads, driveways, or gates of
entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly noticeable from outside the
boundary line.
   STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent, which has
a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
   TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in or under the property of
another, but shall not include the following:
      (1)   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions, or by the officers,
agencies, or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by law;
      (2)   The exercise of rights in, under, or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement, whether by written or prescriptive right;
      (3)   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a public
road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the purpose of
seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted prohibiting
such entry;
      (4)   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under ownership
of an interest in, under, or upon such property; and
      (5)   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance, and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-1)
§ 130.157 PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny as defined in W. Va. Code § 61-3-13
within the city.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.158 DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-18) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.159 INJURY, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure, or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (B)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface, or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract, or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-30) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.160 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES; CATV.
   (A)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire, or other conductor of gas, water, or
electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe, or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water, or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice, or any
other device, by or at which gas, water, or electric energy is consumed, around
or without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water, or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and no person, with like intent, shall injure or
alter any gas, water, or electric meter, or obstruct its action.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-44)
   (B)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor, or other instrument
with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire, or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat, or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas, or electric energy, without the
knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-45)
   (C)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound, or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (D)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove, or injure any cables, wires, or equipment used for distribution
of television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound, or other transmission.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.161 LITTERING, DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk, or any substance or material
which is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the
public health, comfort, or safety.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse,
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt, or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.162 BARRICADES AND WARNINGS; ABANDONED.
   (A)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool, or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (B)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage, or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
   (C)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well, or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to
build, or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground
surface with rock, gravel, earth, or other suitable material.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.163 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   No person without authorization shall dump garbage or trash, or assist
in the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash, in a dumpster or other solid
waste container which is located on the property of another person and leased
or otherwise owned or maintained by another person.
   (B)   The act of throwing isolated objects into a dumpster or other solid
waste container in the prevention or elimination of litter is specifically
excepted from any penalties under this section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-53) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.164 FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINING FOOD OR LODGING.
   No person shall, at any hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or
restaurant, receive or cause to be furnished any food or accommodation, with
intent to defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant. No person shall obtain credit at any hotel, inn,
eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant by the use of any false
pretense or device, or by depositing in such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant any baggage or property of less value than the
amount of such credit, or of the bill by such person incurred, with such
fraudulent intent. No person, after obtaining credit or accommodation at any
hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, shall abscond from
such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, or shall
remove or attempt to remove therefrom any baggage or personal property of any
kind, subject to the lien provided for in W. Va. Code § 38-11-5, with intent to
defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, without first having paid, satisfied, or arranged
all claims or bills for lodging, entertainment, or accommodation.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-40) Penalty, see §
130.999
RAILROADS
§ 130.175 OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARRIER, RAILROAD, or RAILROAD COMPANY. A common carrier by railroad.
      TRAIN or TRAINS. Engines, cars, and any type of railroad equipment or
rolling stock, or any part thereof, capable of blocking any crossing of a
railroad track or tracks and any public street, road, or highway.
   (B)   Blocking of crossing prohibited; time limit.
      (1)   No railroad company, except in an emergency, shall order, allow, or
permit the operation of or operate its system so that a train blocks the
passage of vehicular traffic over the railroad crossing of any public street,
road, or highway for a period longer than ten minutes. This division (B) does
not apply to an obstruction of any such street, road, or highway caused by a
continuously moving train or caused by circumstances wholly beyond the control
of the railroad, but does apply to all other obstructions as aforesaid,
including, but not limited to, those caused by a stopped train or a train
engaged in switching, loading, or unloading operations.
      (2)   Upon receiving notification from a law enforcement officer, member
of a Fire Department, operator of an emergency medical vehicle, or a member of
an emergency services provider that emergency circumstances require the
immediate clearing of a public highway railroad grade crossing, the members of
the train crew of the train, railroad car, or equipment, or engine blocking
such crossing shall immediately notify the appropriate railroad dispatcher of
the pending emergency situation. Upon receipt of notice of such emergency
circumstances by the train crew or dispatcher, the railroad shall immediately
clear the crossing, consistent with the safe operation of the train.
   (C)   Responsibility of railroad company. The railroad company shall be
solely responsible for the acts of its agents and employees in violating any
provision of this section.
   (D)   Presumption. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a train is
operated by the carrier whose marks, numbers, signs, and symbols of
identification appear on the engine or caboose of such train.
   (E)   Service of process. Process issuing for a violation of this section
may be served upon the engineer or conductor of the train causing a violation
of the provisions of this section or any other officer, agent, or attorney-in-
fact of the railroad company authorized by law to receive service of summons or
other process issuing against such railroad company.
(W. Va. Code Art. 31-2A) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.176 TRESPASSING.
   No person not a passenger or employee shall be found trespassing upon any
railroad or traction car or train of any railroad, by jumping on or off any car
or train in motion, on its arrival at or departure from any station or depot of
such railroad, or on the passage of any such car or train over any part of such
railroad; nor shall any person drive any horse or any horse-drawn or motor-
driven vehicle across or upon any railroad track or bridge, except at public or
private crossings.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-43) Penalty, see §
130.999
WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.190 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE FIREARM.
      (1)   Any firearm, including, but not limited to, a firearm with a match
lock, flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type of ignition system which was
manufactured on or before 1898;
      (2)   Any replica of any firearm described in division (1) above if such
replica is not designed or redesigned to use rimfire or conventional center
fire fixed ammunition which is no longer manufactured in the United States and
which is not readily available in the ordinary channels of commercial trade;
and
      (3)   (a)   Any muzzle-loading rifle, muzzle-loading shotgun, or muzzle-
loading pistol, which is designed to use black powder, or black powder
substitute, and which cannot use fixed ammunition.
         (b)   For purposes of this definition, the term ANTIQUE FIREARM shall
not include any weapon which includes a firearm frame or receiver, any firearm
which is converted into a muzzle- loading weapon, or any muzzle-loading weapon
which can be readily converted to fire fixed ammunition by replacing the
barrel, bolt, breechblock, or any combination thereof.
   BLACKJACK. A short bludgeon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased
piece of lead or some other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or
springy shaft which increases the force of impact when a person or object is
struck. BLACKJACK includes, but is not limited to, a billy, billy club, sand
club, sandbag, or slapjack.
   CONCEALED. Hidden from ordinary observation so as to prevent disclosure or
recognition. A deadly weapon is concealed when it is carried on or about the
person in such a manner that another person in the ordinary course of events
would not be placed on notice that the deadly weapon was being carried. For
purposes of concealed handgun licensees, a licensee is considered to be
carrying on or about his or her person while in or on a motor vehicle if the
firearm is located in a storage area in or on the motor vehicle.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W. Va.
Code § 60A-1-101(e).
   DEADLY WEAPON. An instrument which is designed to be used to produce serious
bodily injury or death, or is readily adaptable to such use. The term DEADLY
WEAPON includes, but is not limited to, the instruments defined in this
section, inclusive of this section or other deadly weapons of like kind or
character which may be easily concealed on or about the person. For the
purposes of W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1a and 61-7-11a, in addition to the definition
of KNIFE set forth in this section, the term DEADLY WEAPON also includes any
instrument included within the definition of KNIFE with a blade of three and
one-half inches or less in length. Additionally, for the purposes of W. Va.
Code §§ 18A-5-1a and 61-7-11a, the term DEADLY WEAPON includes explosive,
chemical, biological, and radiological materials. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, the term DEADLY WEAPON does not include any item or
material owned by the school or county board, intended for curricular use, and
used by the student at the time of the alleged offense solely for curricular
purposes. The term DEADLY WEAPON does not include PEPPER SPRAY as defined in
this section when used by any person solely for self-defense purposes.
   DRUG. The same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W. Va. Code § 60A-1-
101(m).
   FIREARM. Any weapon which will expel a projectile by action of an explosion;
provided, that it does not mean an ANTIQUE FIREARM as defined in this section;
except for the purposes of W. Va. Code § 48-27-502.
   GRAVITY KNIFE. Any knife that has a blade released from the handle by the
force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force, and when released is
locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever, or other locking or
catching device.
   KNIFE.
      (1)   An instrument, intended to be used or readily adaptable to be used
as a weapon, consisting of a sharp-edged or sharp-pointed blade, usually made
of steel, attached to a handle, which is capable of inflicting cutting,
stabbing, or tearing wounds.
      (2)   The term KNIFE includes, but is not limited to, any dagger, dirk,
poniard, or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half inches in length, any
switchblade knife or gravity knife, and any other instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing, or tearing wounds.
      (3)   A pocket knife with a blade three and one-half inches or less in
length, a hunting or fishing knife carried for hunting, fishing, sports, or
other recreational uses, or a knife designed for use as a tool or household
implement shall not be included within the term KNIFE as defined herein, unless
the knife is knowingly used or intended to be used to produce serious bodily
injury or death.
   METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES.
      (1)   A set of finger rings attached to a transverse piece to be worn
over the front of the hand for use as a weapon and constructed in such a manner
that, when striking another person with the fist or closed hand, considerable
physical damage may be inflicted upon the person who was struck.
      (2)   The term METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES includes any such instrument
without reference to the metal or other substance or substances from which the
metallic or false knuckles are made.
   NUNCHAKU. A flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts,
connected by a chain, cable, rope, or other non-rigid, flexible, or springy
material, constructed in a manner that allows the rigid parts to swing freely
so that one rigid part may be used as a handle and the other rigid part may be
used as the striking end.
   PEPPER SPRAY. A temporarily disabling aerosol that is composed partly of
capsicum oleoresin and causes irritation, blinding of the eyes, and
inflammation of the nose, throat, and skin that is intended for self-defense
use.
   PISTOL. A short firearm having a chamber which is integral with the barrel,
designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   REVOLVER. A short firearm having a cylinder of several chambers that are
brought successively into line with the barrel to be discharged, designed to be
aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   SWITCHBLADE KNIFE. Any knife having a spring-operated blade which opens
automatically upon pressure being applied to a button, catch, or other
releasing device in its handle.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-2)
§ 130.191 CARRYING DEADLY WEAPON WITHOUT LICENSE; UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   No person under 21 years of age and not otherwise prohibited from possessing
firearms under §
130.192 shall carry a concealed deadly weapon, without a state license or other
lawful authorization established under the provisions of the state code.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-3) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.192 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions in §
130.191 do not apply to any person at least 18 years of age and fewer than 21
years of age who is:
      (1)   Carrying a deadly weapon upon his or her own premises;
      (2)   Carrying a firearm, unloaded, from the place of purchase to his or
her home, residence, or place of business, or to a place of repair and back to
his or her home, residence, or place of business;
      (3)   Possessing a firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while
traveling from his or her home, residence, or place of business to a hunting
site and returning to his or her home, residence, or place of business;
      (4)   A member of a properly organized target-shooting club authorized by
law to obtain firearms by purchase or requisition from the state or from the
United States for the purpose of target practice from carrying any pistol, as
defined in §
130.190, unloaded, from his or her home, residence, or place of business to a
place of target practice and from any place of target practice back to his or
her home, residence, or place of business, for using any such weapon at a place
of target practice in training and improving his or her skill in the use of the
weapons;
      (5)   A law enforcement officer or law enforcement official or chief
executive, as defined in W. Va. Code § 30-29-1;
      (6)   An employee of the State Division of Corrections duly appointed
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 25-1-11c while the employee is on duty;
      (7)   A member of the United States Armed Forces, Reserve, or National
Guard;
      (8)   A resident of another state who holds a valid permit or license to
possess or carry a handgun issued by a state or a political subdivision subject
to the provisions and limitations set forth in W. Va. Code § 61-7-6a;
      (9)   A federal law enforcement officer or federal police officer
authorized to carry a weapon in the performance of the officer’s duty; and
      (10)   A parole officer appointed pursuant to W. Va. Code § 62-12-14 in
the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   The following judicial officers and prosecutors and staff are exempt
from paying any application fees or licensure fees required under the state
code. However, they shall make application and satisfy all licensure and
handgun safety and training requirements to obtain a license as set forth in W.
Va. Code § 61-7-4:
      (1)   Any justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of the state;
      (2)   Any circuit judge;
      (3)   Any retired justice or retired circuit judge designated senior
status by the Supreme Court of Appeals of the state;
      (4)   Any family court judge;
      (5)   Any magistrate;
      (6)   Any prosecuting attorney;
      (7)   Any assistant prosecuting attorney; or
      (8)   Any duly appointed investigator employed by a prosecuting attorney.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-6)
§ 130.193 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall possess a firearm,
as such is defined in §
130.190, who:
      (1)   Has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year;
      (2)   Is habitually addicted to alcohol;
      (3)   Is an unlawful user of or habitually addicted to any controlled
substance;
      (4)   Has been adjudicated to be mentally incompetent or who has been
involuntarily committed to a mental institution pursuant to the provisions of
W. Va. Code Ch. 27, or in similar law of another jurisdiction; provided, that
once an individual has been adjudicated as a mental defective or involuntarily
committed to a mental institution, he or she shall be duly notified that they
are to immediately surrender any firearms in their ownership or possession;
provided, however, that the Mental Hygiene Commissioner or circuit judge shall
first make a determination of the appropriate public or private individual or
entity to act as conservator for the surrendered property;
      (5)   Is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States;
      (6)   Has been discharged from the armed forces under dishonorable
conditions;
      (7)   Is subject to a domestic violence protective order that:
         (a)   Was issued after a hearing of which such person received actual
notice and at which such person had an opportunity to participate;
         (b)   Restrains such person from harassing, stalking, or threatening
an intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person,
or engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable
fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; and
         (c)   1.   Includes a finding that such person represents a credible
threat to the physical safety of such intimate partner or child; or
            2.   By its terms, explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use, or
threatened use of physical force against such intimate partner or child that
would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.
      (8)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor offense of assault or battery
either under the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-2-28, or the provisions of W.
Va. Code § 61-2-9(a) or (b), or a federal or state statute with the same
essential elements in which the victim was a current or former spouse, current
or former sexual or intimate partner, person with whom the defendant has a
child in common, person with whom the defendant cohabits or has cohabited, a
parent or guardian, the defendant’s child or ward, or a member of the
defendant’s household at the time of the offense or has been convicted in any
court of any jurisdiction of a comparable misdemeanor crime of domestic
violence.
   (B)   (1)   Any person prohibited from possessing a firearm by the
provisions of division (A) above may petition the circuit court of the county
in which he or she resides to regain the ability to possess a firearm, and if
the court finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is competent
and capable of exercising the responsibility concomitant with the possession of
a firearm, the court may enter an order allowing the person to possess a
firearm if such possession would not violate any federal law.
      (2)   Provided, that a person prohibited from possessing a firearm by the
provisions of division (A)(4) above may petition to regain the ability to
possess a firearm in accordance with W. Va. Code § 61-7A-5.
   (C)   Any person may carry a concealed deadly weapon without a license
therefor who is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   A United States citizen or legal resident thereof;
      (3)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of
this section; and
      (4)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of 18
U.S.C. § 922(g) or (n).
   (D)   Any person who has been convicted of an offense which disqualifies him
or her from possessing a firearm by virtue of a criminal conviction whose
conviction was expunged or set aside or who subsequent thereto receives an
unconditional pardon for said offense, shall not be prohibited from possessing
a firearm by the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-7) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.194 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter to
the contrary, a person under the age of 18 years who is not married or
otherwise emancipated shall not possess or carry concealed or openly any deadly
weapon.
         (b)   Provided, that a minor may possess a firearm upon premises owned
by such minor or his or her family or on the premises of another with the
permission of his or her parent or guardian, and in the case of property other
than his or her own or that of his or her family, with the permission of the
owner or lessee of such property.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a minor from possessing a
firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from a place where
he or she may lawfully possess a deadly weapon to a hunting site, and returning
to a place where he or she may lawfully possess such weapon.
   (B)   A violation of this section by a person under the age of 18 years
shall subject the child to the jurisdiction of the circuit court under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 49-4-701 et seq., and such minor may be proceeded
against in the same manner as if he or she had committed an act which, if
committed by an adult, would be a crime and may be adjudicated delinquent.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-8) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.195 POSSESSION OF MACHINE GUNS.
   No person shall carry, transport, or have in his or her possession any
machine gun, submachine gun, or any other fully automatic weapon unless he or
she has fully complied with applicable federal statutes and all applicable
rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
relating to such firearms.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-9) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.196 DEADLY WEAPONS FOR SALE OR HIRE.
   A person may not knowingly sell, rent, give, or lend, or, where the person
is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
knowingly sell, rent, give, or lend, any deadly weapon other than a firearm to
a person prohibited from possessing a deadly weapon other than a firearm by any
provision of this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-10) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.197 BRANDISHING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon, whether licensed to
carry the same or not, shall carry, brandish, or use such weapon in a way or
manner to cause, or threaten, a breach of the peace.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-11) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.198 POSSESSING DEADLY WEAPONS ON PREMISES OF EDUCATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall shoot or discharge any firearm as follows:
      (1)   Across or in any public road in the municipality, at any time;
      (2)   Within 500 feet of any school or church;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any dwelling house; provided, that a person who
is a resident of a dwelling house, and his or her authorized guest, may shoot
or discharge a firearm in a lawful manner within 500 feet of the dwelling house
where the person lives if the firearm is being discharged with the express or
implied knowledge and consent of all residents of that dwelling house, and no
other dwelling houses are located within 500 feet of where the firearm is
discharged; or
      (4)   On or near any park or other place where persons gather for
purposes of pleasure.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, any person
operating a gun repair shop, licensed to do business in the state and duly
licensed under applicable federal statutes, is exempt from the prohibition
established by this section for the purpose of testing firearms.
(Ord. 2208, passed 11-20-2014) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.199 FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   FIREWORKS means any combustible or explosive composition,
or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration, or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols,
toy cannons, toy canes, or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of
unmanned balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, or other
fireworks of like construction, and any fireworks containing any explosive or
flammable compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, except that the term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and
model rocket engines, designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable acro models, and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in
accordance with the United States Department of Transportation regulations for
packing and shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and toy paper or
plastic caps manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall
be permitted at all times.
         (b)   Each package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for
retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
      (2)   The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered
fireworks and require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to
sell, as provided in W. Va. Code § 11-12-86:
         (a)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols; provided,
that the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed 0.25 of a grain for
each cap;
         (b)   Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a
pyrotechnic mixture that produce a large snake-like ash when burning;
         (c)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
         (d)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to
surprise the user and which include:
            1.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of 0.25 of a grain of explosive mixture. A string
protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
            2.   A string popper, which is a small tube containing not in
excess of 0.25 of a grain of explosive mixture with string protruding from both
ends. The strings are pulled to activate the friction-sensitive mixture,
producing a small report; and
            3.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small paper wrapped item
containing no more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive mixture coated on small
bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
         (5)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition. These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
         (6)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and
sometimes a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or
explode, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the
air and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not
more than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided, that
sparklers and sparkler devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to
anyone below the age of 16 years old.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership,
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks; provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the State Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs, and
the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every such
display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as to
competency by the State Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section, and
the regulations of the State Fire Commission; provided, that the municipality
shall not be required to file such bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm, or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm,
or corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character,
and form as the State Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the
protection of the public.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.200 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol, or other firearm within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty, or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.201 THROWING, SHOOTING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw, shoot, or propel an arrow, missile, pellet, stone,
metal, or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to persons
or property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of another, or
from any private property into or onto any public place or the property of
another. This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or
instruction, nor when otherwise lawfully authorized.
Penalty, see §
130.999
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 130.215 ITEMS DESIGNED, MARKETED FOR USE WITH CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   No person or persons as principal, clerk, agent, or servant shall sell any
items, effect, paraphernalia, accessory, or thing which designed or marketed
for use with controlled substances, as defined in W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
(Ord. 200-21, passed 4-22-2013) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.216 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   The following items, if marketed for use or designed for use with
controlled substances, are considered drug paraphernalia for the purpose stated
in §
130.215.
      (1)   Kits marketed for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any species of plant which is
a controlled substance or form which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits marked for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices marketed for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment marketed for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, and lactose, marketed for use, or designed for use, in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters marketed for use, or designed for use,
or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning
or refining, marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers marketed for
use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects marketed for use,
or designed for use
in parentally injecting controlled substances into the human body;
      (11)   Paper of colorful design, with names oriented for use with
controlled dangerous substances displayed; provided that white paper or tobacco
oriented paper not necessarily designed for use with controlled substances is
not covered;
      (12)   Pipes displayed in the proximity of roach clips, or literature
encouraging illegal use of controlled substances, are covered by this
subchapter; provided, that pipes otherwise displayed are not covered by this
subchapter;
      (13)   ROACH CLIPS, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana
cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
      (14)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials; or
      (15)   Chillums or bongs.
   (B)   (1)   In determining whether an object is marketed for use or designed
for use as drug paraphernalia, the Chief of Police or designee should consider
the following:
         (a)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a controlled
substance;
         (b)   The existence of any residue of controlled substance on the
object;
         (c)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (d)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (e)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         (f)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (g)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (h)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object or objects to the total sales of the business enterprise; and
         (i)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
      (2)   No bowls, bongs, roach clips, or any other material listed in
division (B)(1) above may be sold within 1,000 feet of any property owned by
any public/private school or by any college or institution of higher education.
(Ord. 200-21, passed 4-22-2013) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.217 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to possess or administer to another salvia.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to manufacture, distribute, or dispense salvia.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to distribute or attempt to distribute a non-
controlled substance that:
      (1)   The person represents is salvia; or
      (2)   The person intends for use or distribution as salvia, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know that the non-controlled
substance will be used or distributed for use as salvia.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to possess or purchase a non-controlled substance
that the person reasonably believes is salvia.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to use or possess with intent to use salvia
paraphernalia.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale, deliver, sell, or distribute
salvia paraphernalia.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to own, rent, or otherwise utilize a store,
dwelling, building, or other facility for:
      (1)   The purpose of administering, selling, displaying, distributing,
possessing, or dispensing salvia; or
      (2)   Manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, storing, or concealing
salvia paraphernalia.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to possess or administer to another
cannabimimetic agent.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to manufacture, distribute, or dispense a
cannabimimetic agent.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to distribute or attempt to distribute a non-
controlled substance that:
      (1)   The person represents is a cannabimimetic agent; or
      (2)   The person intends for use or distribution as a cannabimimetic
agent, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know that the non-
controlled substance will be used or distributed for use as a cannabimimetic
agent.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to possess or purchase a non-controlled substance
that the person reasonably believes is a cannabimimetic agent.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to possess or administer to another a
hallucinogenic chemical substance.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to manufacture, distribute, or dispense a
hallucinogenic chemical substance.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to distribute or attempt to distribute a non-
controlled substance that:
      (1)   The person represents is a hallucinogenic chemical substance; or
      (2)   The person intends for use or distribution as a hallucinogenic
chemical substance, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know
that the non-controlled substance will be used or distributed for use as a
hallucinogenic chemical substance.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to possess or purchase a non-controlled substance
that the person reasonably believes is a hallucinogenic chemical substance.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to use or possess with intent to use synthetic
drug paraphernalia.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale, deliver, sell, or distribute
synthetic drug paraphernalia.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful to own, rent, or otherwise utilize a store,
dwelling, building, or other facility for:
      (1)   The purpose of administering, selling, displaying, distributing,
possessing, or dispensing a cannabimimetic agent or a hallucinogenic chemical
substance; or
      (2)   Manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, storing, or concealing
synthetic drug paraphernalia.
   (S)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale, deliver, sell, or distribute
any product that contains a synthetic drug or is chemically enhanced, by
whatever name called, without having appended thereto a list of ingredients and
chemical compounds.
   (T)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale, deliver, sell, or distribute
any product which is promoted or otherwise marketed to produce physical and/or
psychological effects.
(Ord. 200-21, passed 4-22-2013) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.218 SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person or establishment shall sell any item listed in this subchapter or
not listed in this subchapter that maybe used in the possession or use for
tobacco products or for controlled substance to anyone under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 200-21, passed 4-22-2013) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
130.001 through
130.008 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.001 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-14)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.002(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or confined in jail not more than
one year, or both fined and confined.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.002(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 or confined in jail for five days,
or both fined and confined.
         (c)   1.   Whoever violates §
130.002(C) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or confined in jail not more than
one year, or both fined and confined.
            2.   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a
vehicle from a law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer
acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear
visual or audible signal directing the person to stop is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $500 nor
more than $1,000 and shall be confined in jail not more than one year.
            3.   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a
vehicle from a law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer
acting in his or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear
visual or audible signal directing the person to stop, and who causes damage to
the real or personal property of a person during or resulting from his or her
flight, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000 and shall be confined in jail for not
less than six months nor more than one year.
         (d)   1.   A person who violates §
130.002(E) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for a period of not less than one day nor more than one year,
or shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $2,000, or both fined and
confined.
            2.   A person who is convicted of a second offense under §
130.002(E) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not less than three months nor more than one year, or
fined not less than $500 nor more than $3,000, or both fined and confined.
            3.   A person who is convicted of a third or subsequent offense
under §
130.002(E) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail not less than six months nor more than one year, or fined not
less than $500 nor more than $4,000, or both fined and confined.
            4.   In determining the number of prior convictions for purposes of
imposing punishment under §
130.002(E), the court shall disregard all such prior convictions occurring more
than ten years prior to the offense in question.
         (e)   Any person who violates §
130.002(F) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or confined in jail not more than six months, or
both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.003 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17)
      (5)   Whoever violates §
130.004(A) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or confined
in jail for not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.020(A) shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $2,000 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. Any person convicted of a
second or subsequent violation of §
130.020(A) shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not less than
$500 nor more than $3,000, or both. The incarceration set forth in this
division (C) shall be mandatory unless the provisions of division (C)(1)(b)
below are complied with.
         (b)   1.   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
no person who has been convicted of a violation of the provisions of §
130.020(A) may be granted probation until the defendant has undergone a
complete psychiatric or psychological evaluation and the court has reviewed
such evaluation. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be
indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the cost of said evaluation.
            2.   For any person convicted of a violation of division (B)(1)(a)
above, the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this section,
impose a requirement that he or she complete a program of anger management
intervention for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is
determined by the court to be indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the
cost of the program.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a
violation of §
130.020, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from possessing,
owning, or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period of five
years following entry of a conviction. A violation under this division (C)(2)
is punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and forfeiture of the animal.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
130.020(B) shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19)
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.021 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both. In addition, the Humane Officer may remove the dog or cat
involved and place it in the pound, and such dog or cat shall not be returned
to the owner or perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but shall be put up for
adoption to a desirable home or given into the care of a humane society or,
upon the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian, shall be humanely
destroyed.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.035 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 24 hours.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-1b)
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.036 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-14a)
      (3)   Whoever violates §
130.039 shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-29)
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.053 or
130.055 shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.054 shall be fined not more than $300.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.070(A) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.070(B) shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both, and for a second offense shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   (a)   Except as provided in division (F)(3)(b) below, any person
who violates the provisions of §
130.076 shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days, or fined not more than
$250, or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.076 by intentionally exposing himself or herself to another person and the
exposure was done for the purpose of sexual gratification, shall be fined not
more than $500, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both. For a
second offense, the person shall be fined not more than $1,000 and confined in
jail for 30 days. For a third or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.077 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both.
   (G)   Whoever violates §
130.092(A) through (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.094(A),
130.101(B), or
130.102(B) shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not more than 72
hours, or both, or, in lieu of such fine and imprisonment, may, for the first
offense, be placed on probation for not more than one year.
      (2)   Whoever violates §§
130.094(B),
130.101(C), or
130.102(D) shall be fined not more than $100, or imprisoned for not more than
ten days, or both.
(W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-3-22a, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.095(A)(1) shall be sentenced by a judicial officer in accordance with the
following options:
            1.   Upon first offense, a fine of not less than $5 nor more than
$100. If the individual, prior to conviction, agrees to voluntarily attend an
alcohol education program of not more than six hours duration at the nearest
community mental health or mental retardation center, the judicial officer may
delay sentencing until the program is completed and upon completion may dismiss
the charges;
            2.   Upon conviction for a second offense, a fine of not less than
$5 nor more than $100 and not more than 60 days in jail or completion of not
less than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental
health or mental retardation center;
            3.   Upon third and subsequent convictions, a fine of not less than
$5 nor more than $100, and not less than five nor more than 30 days in jail, or
a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100, and completion of not less than
five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental health or
mental retardation center; provided, that three convictions for public
intoxication within the preceding six months is considered evidence of
alcoholism. For the educational counseling programs described in this division
(H)(3), the community mental health or mental retardation center may charge
each participant its usual and customary fee, and shall certify in writing to
the referring judicial officer the completion or failure to complete the
prescribed program for each individual.
            4.   A person charged with a violation of §
130.095(A)(1) who is an alcoholic shall be found not guilty by reason of
addiction and proper disposition made pursuant to W. Va. Code Art. 27-5 and Ch.
6A.
         (d)   Whoever violates §
130.095(A)(2) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100; and upon a
second or subsequent conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $100, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (e)   Whoever violates §
130.095(A)(3) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
      (4)   Whoever violates §
130.094(A)(4) or (A)(5) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense, he or she is guilty of a
felony, and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-9)
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.097(A) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 or shall be confined in
jail, or, in the case of a juvenile, a juvenile detention facility, for a
period not to exceed 72 hours, or both fined and confined or, in lieu of such
fine and confinement, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a
period not to exceed one year.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.097(B) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100 or shall be confined in
jail, or in the case of a juvenile, a juvenile detention facility, for a period
not to exceed 72 hours, or both such fine and confinement or, in lieu of such
fine and confinement, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a
period not exceeding one year.
         (c)   Whoever violates §
130.097(C) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100 or shall be confined in
jail for a period not to exceed ten days, or both such fine and confinement.
      (6)   Whoever violates §
130.098 shall be fined not less than $500 or more than $1,000, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12)
      (7)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.099(A) or (B) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than
30 days, or both, and in addition may, for the first offense, be placed on
probation for a period not to exceed one year.
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.099(C) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
      (8)   (a)   Whoever violates §§
130.101(A) or
130.102(A) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 72
hours, or both, or in lieu thereof, may, for the first offense, be placed on
probation for a period not to exceed one year.
(W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
         (b)   Whoever violates §
130.102(C) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3A-24)
   (I)   Any person who violates any provision of W. Va. Code Art. 11-16,
including, but not limited to, any provision of §
130.096, or any rule, or order lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner, or who
makes any false statement concerning any material fact in submitting an
application for a license or for a renewal of a license, or in any hearing
concerning the revocation of a license, or who commits any of the acts in §
130.096 declared to be unlawful, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished for each offense by a fine of not less
than $25, nor more than $500, or confined in the county or regional jail for
not less than 30 days nor more than six months, or by both fine and
confinement. Magistrates have concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit court
and any other courts having criminal jurisdiction in their county for the trial
of all misdemeanors arising under §
130.090 through
130.104.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-18)
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.123 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (2)   (a)   Any individual who knowingly and intentionally sells, gives,
or furnishes, or causes to be sold, given, or furnished, to any person under
the age of 18 years any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco-derived product, in any form, as described in §
130.124, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, for the first
offense shall be fined not more than $100; upon conviction thereof for a second
or subsequent offense, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $100 and not more than $500.
         (b)   1.   Any firm or corporation that violates any provision of §
130.124(B) hereof and any individual who violates any provision of §
130.124(B) hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined $50 for the first offense.
            2.   Upon any subsequent violation at the same location or
operating unit, the firm, corporation, or individual shall be fined as follows:
at least $250 but not more than $500 for the second offense, if it occurs
within two years of the first conviction; at least $500 but not more than $750
for the third offense, if it occurs within two years of the first conviction;
and at least $1,000 but not more than $5,000 for any subsequent offense, if the
subsequent offense occurs within five years of the first conviction.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-2)
         (c)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.124(D) shall, for the first violation, be fined $50 and be required to
serve eight hours of community service; for a second violation, the person
shall be fined $100 and be required to serve 16 hours of community service; and
for a third and each subsequent violation, the person shall be fined $200 and
be required to serve 24 hours of community service. Notwithstanding the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 49-4-701, the magistrate court has concurrent
jurisdiction.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-3)
      (3)   Any person who violates §
130.125 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
more than $25. No court costs or other fees may be assessed for a violation of
this section.
(W. Va. Code § 16-9A-11)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.140(A),
130.141(A), or
130.144 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
130.142(B) is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-10(b))
   (L)   (1)   A person convicted of shoplifting, as outlined in §
130.155, shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
            1.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to
$500, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not more than
$250; and
            2.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$500, and such fine shall not be suspended; or the person shall be confined in
jail not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
            1.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to
$500, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500, and such fine shall not be suspended; or the person
shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both; and
            2.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than $500, and shall be
confined in jail not more than 30 days.
         (c)   Mandatory penalty. In addition to the fines and imprisonment
imposed by this section, in all cases of conviction for the offense of
shoplifting, the court shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the
mercantile establishment involved in the amount of $50, or double the value of
the merchandise involved, whichever is higher. The mercantile establishment
shall be entitled to collect such mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil
judgment. This penalty shall be in addition to the mercantile establishment’s
rights to recover the stolen merchandise.
         (d)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior
shoplifting convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section,
the court shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years
prior to the shoplifting offense in question.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-3)
      (2)   In all cases, for a penalty to be paid to the mercantile
establishment, as described in §
130.155(E)(1), in the amount of $50 or double the value of the merchandise,
whichever is higher.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
   (M)   (1)   Any person who knowingly enters in, upon, or under a structure
or conveyance without being authorized, licensed, or invited, or having been
authorized, licensed, or invited is requested to depart by the owner, tenant,
or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses to do so, as defined in §
130.156, shall be fined not more than $100. If the offender is armed with a
firearm or other dangerous weapon while in the structure or conveyance, with
the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being in such
structure or conveyance at the time the offender knowingly trespasses, such
offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be
subject to the penalty provided in division (B) above.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-2)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed, or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing, or cultivation, as
defined in § 130.151, shall be fined as follows:
            1.   First offense conviction. Upon a first trespassing conviction
pursuant to §
130.156, the person shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
            2.   Second offense conviction. Upon a second trespassing
conviction pursuant to §
130.156, the person shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000.
            3.   Third offense conviction. Upon a third and subsequent
trespassing conviction pursuant to §
130.156, the person shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
         (b)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally
communicated to him or her by the owner, tenant, or agent of such owner or
tenant, or if the offender opens any door, fence, or gate, and thereby exposes
animals, crops, or other property to waste, destruction, or freedom, or causes
any damage to property by such trespassing on property other than a structure
or conveyance, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in division
(B) above.
         (c)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous
weapon with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human
being during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other
than a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
fined not more than $100, or both.
         (d)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided
by law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the amount of twice
the amount of such damage; provided, that the provisions of §
130.156 shall not apply in a labor dispute.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-3)
   (N)   (1)   Whoever violates §§
130.159(B) or
130.164 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (2)   (a)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
130.163 shall be subject to the following penalties:
            1.   Upon a first conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $250;
            2.   Upon a second conviction, the defendant shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500; and
            3.   Upon any subsequent conviction in excess of a second
conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than
$1,000, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-11A-4 or W.
Va. Code § 50-3-2a, the magistrate or court may order restitution not to exceed
the value of unauthorized solid waste services received.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-53)
   (O)   (1)   Any railroad company, carrier, or railroad violating the
provisions of §
130.175(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $150; upon a second conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
less than $250; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the same
crossing within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined not less
than $350.
      (2)   Any railroad company, carrier, or railroad violating the provisions
of §
130.175(B)(2) shall be fined not less than $1,000; upon a second conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
less than $2,500; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the
same crossing within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined not
less than $5,000.
(W. Va. Code § 31-2A-6)
      (3)   Whoever violates §
130.176 shall be fined not more than $25 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (P)   (1)   Whoever violates §
130.193 shall, for a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-3)
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates §
130.193 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (P)(1)(a) above, any
person shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. The provisions of §
130.193(B) shall not apply to persons convicted of offenses referred to in this
division (P) or to persons convicted of a violation of this division (P)(2).:
            1.   Who has been convicted in the state or any other jurisdiction
of a felony crime of violence against the person of another or of a felony
sexual offense; or
            2.   Who has been convicted in the state or any other jurisdiction
of a felony controlled substance offense involving a Schedule I controlled
substance other than marijuana, a Schedule II, or a Schedule III controlled
substance, as such are defined in W. Va. Code §§ 60A-2-204, 60A-2-205, and 60A-
2-206, and who possesses a firearm as such is defined in §
130.190.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-7)
      (3)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.196 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $5,000 or shall be confined in the county jail for not more
than one year, or both fined and confined, except that where the person
violating §
130.196 is other than a natural person, the person shall be fined not more than
$10,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-10)
   (Q)   Any person or establishment violating any provision of §§
130.215 through
130.218 shall be fined not more than $5,000
(Ord. 200-21, passed 4-22-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Opening, grading, construction on streets, alleys
State Building Code
   
150.015   Adoption
   
150.016   Definitions
   
150.017   Conflicts
Fire Prevention Code
   
150.030   Adoption of Code
   
150.031   Modifications
   
150.032   Appeals from actions of the Chief of Fire Department
   
150.033   New materials, processes, or occupancies which may require permits
Building Permits
   
150.045   Obtaining a building permit
   
150.046   Fees
   
150.047   Moving a home
   
150.048   Encroaching upon a street, alley, sidewalk, and the like
   
150.049   Construction of cellar way, window way, coal hole, and the like
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.060   Nuisance
   
150.061   Enforcement Agency
   
150.062   Rules of procedure; civil remedies
Building Official
   
150.075   Establishment of office
   
150.076   Duties
   
150.077   Liability
   
150.078   Right of entry
   
150.079   Definitions
   
150.080   Fire limits
   
150.081   Fees
   
150.082   Application
Vacant Buildings and Structures
   
150.095   Adoption
   
150.096   Purpose
   
150.097   Definitions
   
150.098   Standards
   
150.099   Applicability
   
150.100   Inspections
   
150.101   Corrective action
   
150.102   Registration
   
150.103   Right of appeal and waiver
   
150.104   Amending registration information
   
150.105   Reinspection
   
150.106   Non-payment of fees - liens
   
150.107   Relation to other codes and laws
 
   
150.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Adoption by reference of State Building Code, Fire Code, see W. Va. Code §
8-11-4
   Building regulation, see W. Va. Code § 8-12-13
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 OPENING, GRADING, CONSTRUCTION ON STREETS, ALLEYS.
   No street, road, or alley in said city shall be opened, graded, or
constructed or closed without prior approval of a simple majority of the
Council of the city.
(Ord. 100-10, passed 5-2-1977) Penalty, see §
150.999
STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.015 ADOPTION.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, as if set out
at length herein, for the purpose of safeguarding life and property and to
ensure the quality of construction of all structures erected or removed
throughout the municipality that certain code know as the State Building Code,
as promulgated by the Fire Marshal under W. Va. Code § 29-3-5b.
   (B)   The standards and requirements as set out and as published by the
Building Officials & Code Administrators International and the Council of
American Building Officials, as listed below, and as adopted by the State Fire
Marshal, shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim in this
section:
      (1)   The BOCA National Building Code;
      (2)   The BOCA National Plumbing Code;
      (3)   The BOCA National Mechanical Code;
      (4)   The BOCA National Property Maintenance Code;
      (5)   The BOCA National Energy Conservation Code; and
      (6)   The CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
§ 150.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOCA. The Building Officials & Code Administrators International, 4051
Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, Illinois, 60477-5795.
   BUILDING CODE. Includes all aspects of safe building construction and
mechanical operations, and all safety aspects related thereto.
   CABO. The Council of American Building Officials, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite
708, Falls Church, Virginia, 22041.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The State Fire Marshal and/or his or her designated
representatives.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The entire contents of this subchapter and the
referenced national codes.
§ 150.017 CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Whenever there arises a conflict between the State Fire Code and the
State Building Code, the State Fire Code shall take precedence.
   (B)   Whenever there arises a conflict between the BOCA National Plumbing
Code portion of the State Building Code and the rules of the State Board of
Health, the rules of the Board of Health shall take precedence.
   (C)   Whenever there arises a conflict between the State Building Code and
statutory laws of the state, the state code shall take precedence.
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 150.030 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, as if set out
at length herein, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosions, that certain
code known as the State Fire Code, which became effective March 30, 1984.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal and other sworn officers of the Fire Department, as
appointed by the Fire Chief, are hereby empowered to enforce the Fire Code and
to issue summonses to violators of its provisions.
§ 150.031 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code adopted by this subchapter upon
application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized
agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of such code; provided, that the spirit of such code shall be
observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars
of such modification, when granted or allowed, and the decision of the Chief of
the Bureau of Fire Prevention thereon shall be entered upon the records of the
Fire Department, and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
§ 150.032 APPEALS FROM ACTIONS OF THE CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department disapproves an application or
refuses to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code adopted by this subchapter do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the Fire Prevention Code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Chief of the Fire Department to Council within 30 days from the date of
the decision appealed.
§ 150.033 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Chief of the Fire Department, and the Chief of the
Bureau of Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine and specify,
after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials,
processes, or occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now
enumerated in the Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his or her office, and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.045 OBTAINING A BUILDING PERMIT.
   Any person or persons desiring to erect any building or repair any building
heretofore constructed, or to make any addition or additions to any building in
said city, shall make application in writing to the Council for permission to
erect, construct, repair, or add to any building in said city, at a cost in
excess of $500, which application shall state the place where said building or
repairs or additions are desired to be located or made, upon what street, the
side thereof, and distance therefrom, the kind of building material to be used
in the construction thereof, and for what purpose the said building or
additions, or repairs, are to be used, giving the dimensions of said proposed
building, repairs, or additions, the description thereof, as foundation, roof,
and material thereof, and the approximate cost of said proposed building,
addition, or repairs; and the Council shall adopt a prescribed form to be used
by such applicants in making said application.
(Ord. 300-03, passed - -)
§ 150.046 FEES.
   (A)   A minimum fee of $10 shall be paid for a building permit up to and
including $5,000, which shall be 0.002% of the approximate cost of said
building and shall be paid the City Treasurer when said permit is granted, and
shall accompany the application therefor.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall receive a compensation of $0.50 for each permit,
and shall accompany the application therefor.
(Ord. 300-02, passed - -; Ord. 300-03, passed - -)
§ 150.047 MOVING A HOME.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, or cause to be moved, any
building, or frame of building, into or upon any of the public streets, alleys,
parks, or other public grounds of the city, or otherwise obstruct the free
passage of any street or alley, without the written permission of the Mayor of
the city.
(Ord. 300-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.048 ENCROACHING UPON A STREET, ALLEY, SIDEWALK, AND THE LIKE.
   No person, without the consent of the City Council, shall encroach upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground of the city with any building, porch,
balcony, steps, veranda, window, show window, lamp hitching rack, fence,
awning, wall, railing, sign post, sign board, electric pole, telephone or
telegraph pole, or in any way or manner appropriating any part of any street,
alley, sidewalk, or other public ground for private use.
(Ord. 300-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.049 CONSTRUCTION OF CELLAR WAY, WINDOW WAY, COAL HOLE, AND THE LIKE.
   No person, without the consent of the City Council, shall build any cellar
way, window-way, coal-hole, or other opening of any kind or character, in or
through any sidewalk or footwalk, or leave any such cellar way, or other
excavation as may now exist, in any sidewalk or footway, or that may hereafter
be made by consent of the Council or to use the same in such a way that
pedestrians may fall therein, or use the same at any time without giving some
warning to pedestrians of the danger during the whole time the same is open.
(Ord. 300-03, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.999
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.060 NUISANCE.
   Any dwelling or other building situate within the city which is unfit for
human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire,
accidents, or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light, or sanitary
facilities, or any other conditions prevailing in any such dwelling or
building, whether used for human habitation or not, which would cause such
dwellings or other buildings to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or
detrimental to the public welfare, are hereby deemed a public nuisance.
(Ord. 300-01, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 150.061 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   An Enforcement Agency is hereby created which shall, pursuant to the rules
hereinafter set forth, have the power to inspect dwellings and other buildings
within the city for the purpose of determining whether they constitute a
nuisance, as defined in §
150.060, and issue such complaints, conduct such hearings and issue and enforce
such orders as are provided for herein and permitted under the above mentioned
statutes. Said Enforcement Agency shall consist of the Mayor, the City Building
Inspector, and one member at large, to be selected by and to serve at the will
and pleasure of the Mayor. The ranking health officer of the city and the City
Fire Chief shall serve as ex officio members of such Enforcement Agency. A
majority of the members of said Enforcement Agency shall constitute a quorum
and have authority to act.
(Ord. 300-01, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 150.062 RULES OF PROCEDURE; CIVIL REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Enforcement Agency, as above constituted, shall inspect any
dwelling or other building within the city reported to be a nuisance, as
defined in §
150.060. Such inspection shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession.
   (B)   If, after conducting such inspection, the Enforcement Agency, by
majority vote, is of the opinion that the dwelling or building so inspected
constitutes a nuisance, as defined in §
150.060, they shall issue and have served on the owner of said dwelling or
building a complaint identifying said dwelling or building, and setting forth
the defects which cause such dwelling or building to constitute a nuisance.
Said complaint shall further contain a notice to the owner of the premises in
question that said owner may at any time within ten days of the receipt of said
complaint demand in writing a hearing on said complaint before the Enforcement
Agency which hearing shall take place no later than ten days after the written
demand therefore has been received by the Enforcement Agency. Service of the
complaint and notice provided for herein above shall be in accordance with the
State Rules of Civil Procedure for Trial Courts of Record, and in addition
thereto said complaint and notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
affected premises.
   (C)   (1)   Within ten days after the above mentioned hearing has taken
place, or if no hearing is demanded then within ten days after the time period
for demanding such hearing has expired, the Enforcement Agency upon majority
vote shall enter an order either dismissing the complaint or confirming that
some or all of the alleged defects exist, and ordering the owner to correct the
same within a reasonable and specified period of time from and after the
effective date of the order.
      (2)   If said defects are not corrected within the period of time
provided for in said order, the Enforcement Agency may seek enforcement of said
order through injunction proceedings in the circuit court or, at its option,
and on its own, cause to be made the necessary repairs, alterations, or
improvements, or such vacating, closing, removal, or demolition of said
premises, or any combination thereof, as may be deemed appropriate under the
circumstances, and assess the cost of the same to the owner of said premises.
      (3)   Said Enforcement Agency shall have the right to sell any material
it salvages from said premises and shall credit the proceeds from such sale to
the total costs assessed to the owner, with the balance remaining to constitute
a lien against the real property upon which such costs were incurred.
      (4)   Said order shall be served on the owner of the affected premises
and posted in the same manner as the initial complaint and notice.
   (D)   (1)   No final order entered herein by the Enforcement Agency
requiring the correction of any defects shall become effective until ten days
after the same has been served on the owner of the affected premises, during
which period of time said owner has the right to apply to the circuit court of
the county, for a temporary injunction restraining the Enforcement Agency from
the enforcement of said order.
      (2)   In the event an application for injunction is timely made, the
Enforcement Agency’s order will be stayed pending the outcome of the injunction
proceedings in the circuit court.
(Ord. 300-01, passed 4-2-1990)
BUILDING OFFICIAL
§ 150.075 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The office of Building Official is hereby created and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the Building Official.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Official shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject
to the approval of the Council. His or her appointment shall continue during
good behavior and satisfactory service.
      (2)   He or she shall not be removed from office except for cause after
full opportunity has been given him or her to be heard on specific charges.
   (C)   During temporary absence or disability of the Building Official, the
appointment authority shall designate an acting Building Official.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.076 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Official to enforce all laws relating
to the construction, alteration, removal, and demolition of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.077 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The Building Official, or any employee charged with the enforcement of
this code, acting in good faith and without malice for the city in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act or
omission of the discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   Any suit brought against the Building Official or employee, because of
such act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement or any
provisions of this code, shall be defended by the legal department of the city
until final termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.078 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Official, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure, or premises at any reasonable hour.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.079 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The Attorney for the city.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Glenville, West Virginia.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.080 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the city are hereby established as follows: Beginning at
Main Street from Morris to Walnut Street; and Lewis Street from the New Bridge
to Howard Street and all of Powell Street, in the city to the point of
beginning.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.081 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   No permit, as required by the building code, shall be issued
until the fee prescribed in this subchapter shall have been paid. Nor shall an
amendment to a permit be approved until the additional fee, if any, due to an
increase in the estimated cost of the building or structure, shall haw been
paid.
      (2)   For a permit for the construction or alteration of a building or
structure, the fee shall be at the rate of $3 per $1,000 of the estimated cost
in excess of $20,000 up to $100,000, plus $0.50 per $1,000 of the estimated
cost in excess of $100,000; but not less than $10 in any case; provided, that
no fee shall be required when the estimated cost does not exceed $200.
      (3)   For a permit for the removal of a building or structure from one
lot to another, the fee shall be $10.
      (4)   For a permit for the removal of a building or structure, to a new
location within the same lot, the fee shall be $10.
      (5)   For a permit for the demolition of a building or structure the fee
shall be at the rate of $10.
      (6)   The term ESTIMATED COST, as used in this division (A), means the
reasonable value of all services, labor, materials, and use of scaffolding and
other appliances or devices entering into and necessary to the persecution and
completion of the work ready for occupancy; provided, that the cost of
excavation or grading, and of painting, decorating, or other work that is
merely for embellishment or not necessary for the sale and lawful use of the
building or structure, is not deemed a part of such estimated cost.
   (B)   The following shall be the fee schedule for building permits.
 
$0 to 5,000      $25
$5,001 to 10,000 $50
Above $10,000    $50 + $3/1,000 over
 
(Ord. 300-02, passed - -; Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
§ 150.082 APPLICATION.
   The applicant for any permit shall furnish the following information:
   (A)   Type of construction;
   (B)   Estimated cost;
   (C)   Location of property; and
   (D)   Use of the premises.
(Ord. 300-06, passed - -1986)
VACANT BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.095 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted a “Vacant Building and Structure Ordinance” for the
city.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.096 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that uninspected and unmonitored
vacant buildings and structures may present a fire hazard, may provide
temporary occupancy to transients (including drug users and traffickers), may
detract from private and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain
surrounding buildings and structures, and that the health, safety, and welfare
of the public is served by the registration and regulation of such vacant
buildings and structures.
   (B)   Owners of uninspected and unmonitored vacant buildings and structures
shall register such vacant buildings and structures with the city, make payment
of a fee for the registration thereof, and otherwise conform to these vacant
building and structure provisions.
   (C)   This subchapter ensures that, through a registration, inspection, and
monitoring process, vacant buildings and structures will be kept weather-tight
and secure from trespassers, will provide safe entry to police officers and
firefighters in times of emergency, will not impede private and/or public
efforts to rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings and structures, and
will not otherwise present a public hazard.
   (D)   The city, by and through its departments (particularly the Building
Enforcement Agency), shall inspect and monitor vacant buildings and structures
(especially vacant downtown buildings and structures), shall assess the effects
of the condition of those buildings and structures on nearby buildings and
structures, and shall promote substantial efforts to rehabilitate and develop
such buildings and structures when appropriate.
   (E)   These provisions will streamline and consolidate existing procedures
(that is, complaint, research, notification, inspection, orders, fines, liens,
appeals, and due lien enforcement) by placing the responsibility to register
and maintain vacant buildings and structures on the property owner before a
building or structure’s condition falls into disrepair or otherwise merits a
complaint.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.097 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Recorder.
   BOARDED. A building or structure subject to the provision of this subchapter
shall be deemed to be BOARDED if in place of one or more exterior doors, other
than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets of
plywood or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS. The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, windows, doors, roof, and other parts of the exterior of the
building or structure and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of
the roof; electrical and plumbing systems; water supply system; sewer system;
sidewalk; driveway, if any; and any other areas of the lot, as applicable and
as enforced by the Board of Zoning Appeals, particularly in connection with
ordinances adopted by the city as well as all applicable local, state, and
federal laws.
   OCCUPIED. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be OCCUPIED if one or
more persons actually conducts a lawful business or resides in or in any part
of the building or structure as the licensed business occupant, or as the legal
or equitable owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient
basis, or any combination of the same. For the purposes of this subchapter,
evidence offered to prove that a building or structure is so OCCUPIED may
include, but shall not be limited to, the regular receipt or delivery of
regular mail through the United States Postal Service; proof of continual
telephone, electric, gas, heating, water, and sewer services; a valid city
business license, or the most recent, federal, state, or city income tax
statements indicating that the subject property is the official business
address or residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy; or
proof of a bonafide pre-rental inspection.
   OPEN. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be deemed to be OPEN if any one or more doors, other than a storm door,
is broken, open and/or closed but without a properly functioning lock to secure
it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being locked and
secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
   OWNER. An owner of the freehold of the property or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, agent, or any other person, firm, or corporation
that is directly or indirectly in control of a building or structure subject to
the provisions of this subchapter, and as set forth below.
   VACANT. A building or structure shall be deemed to be VACANT if no person or
persons actually, currently conduct a lawfully licensed business, or lawfully
reside, dwell, or live in any part of the building or structure as the legal or
equitable owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-
transient basis. A building or structure shall be deemed VACANT and subject to
the registration and possible penalty provisions provided herein if the
exterior maintenance and major building systems of the building and the
surrounding real property thereof, as defined in this subchapter, are in
violation of the building, fire, and/or floodplain ordinances or health and
sanitation ordinances, and if there is not proof of continual utility service
evidencing actual use of electric, gas (i.e., applicable heating sources, water
service, and the like). CONTINUED is meant to mean without more than a 30-day
interruption in any given 360-day period. In order for such continual utility
service to be considered as being actually in use as described in this
subchapter, it must be more than merely registered to the owner for purposes of
billing and must be utilized, at a minimum, in order to keep the property and
the major systems of the building in compliance with building, fire, safety,
and health ordinances. The person or entity asserting that there has been
continued utility service has the burden to produce actual bills evidencing
utility service for the relevant period.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.098 STANDARDS.
   All vacant buildings and structures shall comply with the following
criteria.
   (A)   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-cultivated
gardens maintained at no more than 12 inches of growth. All noxious weeds are
prohibited.
   (B)   Building or structure is to be broom swept and cleared of all
contents, not including building materials or components to be used in the
future renovation at that building or structure.
   (C)   Electrical service shall be provided to the building or structure via
temporary pole service on the exterior of the building or structure or create a
permanent service for the building or structure and install two GFCI protected
receptacles.
   (D)   NEC and OSHA compliant lighting string (pig-tail temporary lights) is
to be provided to the entire building or structure so it may be illuminated as
needed to view the building or structure.
   (E)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed. Unstable or unsound accessory buildings or structures are to be razed
or renovated.
   (F)   Using wood sheet goods, all loose, deteriorated, and broken windows
and doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling and to
prevent the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such wood sheet goods are to be cut
and neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening.
   (G)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter, or overhang extensions
(masonry or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent falling.
   (H)   Any utilities need to be connected to the building or structure.
   (I)   Regular routine monitoring of the building or structure is to occur by
the owner to ensure that the building or structure is being kept in compliance
with the sections immediately hereinabove.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.099 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements of this subchapter shall be applicable to each owner
of any building or structure that is found to be vacant pursuant to the
language contained herein. Each such owner shall cause to be filed a notarized
registration statement, which shall include the street address and parcel
number of each such vacant building or structure, the names and addresses of
all owners as hereinafter described, and any other information deemed necessary
by the Building Enforcement Agency. The registration fee(s) as required by this
subchapter shall be billed by the city to the owner or owners and shall be paid
by the last day of the month when the property has been registered.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the following provisions shall also be
applicable.
      (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the Secretary of State.
      (2)   If the owner is an estate, the registration statement shall provide
the name and addresses of the executor of the estate.
      (3)   If the owner is a trust, the registration statement shall provide
the names and addresses of all trustees, granters, and beneficiaries.
      (4)   If the owner is a partnership or limited liability company, the
registration statement shall provide the names and residence addresses of all
partners or members with an interest of 10% or greater.
      (5)   If the owner is any other form of unincorporated association, the
registration statement shall provide the names and residence addresses of all
principals with a valid interest of 10% or greater.
      (6)   If the owner is an individual person, the name and residence
address of that individual person.
      (7)   If none of the entities or persons listed, as required above, are
shown to be at an address within this state, the registration statement shall
also provide the name and address of the person who resides within this state
who is a responsible, local party or agent, both for purpose of service of any
and all notices or registration statements as herein authorized and in
connection herewith.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.100 INSPECTIONS.
   At the time of registration, the City Building Inspector, Fire Chief of the
County Volunteer Fire Department, City Building Enforcement Agency, City Board
of Zoning Appeals and City Police Chief shall determine whether it is necessary
for any or all of them to inspect the building or structure so as to identify
any public safety issues needing attention. Inspections shall also be available
to verify the status of any property concerning occupancy, vacancy, and the
like. If an internal inspection is deemed necessary, the owner will be notified
of the same and arrangements made for the inspection. If the owner fails or
refuses to consent to and arrange for an inspection, the city will seek an
administrative search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction, which
shall include the Mayor’s municipal court, to authorize inspection of the
premises for the purpose of determining the structural integrity of the
building or structure, the repairs necessary to ensure its structural integrity
and that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and police officers in times
of emergency, and that the building or structure and its contents do not
present a hazard to the public during the time that the building or structure
remains vacant.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.101 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   After inspections, the property owner or owners shall be notified in writing
of any corrective action deemed necessary for the protection of life, safety,
and enforcement of the city building, fire, floodplain, zoning, and/or health
and sanitation ordinances. This notice shall contain the applicable ordinance
provisions in question, as well as setting a reasonable time for the corrective
action to be taken.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.102 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   At the time of adoption of this subchapter, all owners of real
property within the city that contain a vacant building or structure, as
defined above, shall register the same with the City Clerk. For those buildings
or structures that qualify as a vacant buildings or structures after
inspections, the owner thereof shall be required to register the building or
structure with the City Building Inspector within 30 days after the structure
is found to meet the definition of a vacant building or structure. The
registration form shall require information from the registrant deemed
necessary by the Mayor, City Building Inspector, Fire Chief, City Building
Enforcement Agency, City Board of Zoning Appeals, and City Police Chief, so as
to ensure that the purpose of this section is met. Specifically, the above-
named city officials shall have the authority and discretion to require that
the property owner provide a professional opinion (architect, engineer, and the
like) to determine the structural integrity of the building or structure and
that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and police officers in times of
emergency, and that the building or structure and its contents do not present a
hazard to the public during the time the building or structure remains vacant.
The above-named city officials shall have the authority to issue orders to the
owner for corrective actions deemed necessary. The City Building Inspector and
Fire Chief shall rely upon the National Building and Fire Codes and the State
Building and Fire Codes, as well as other applicable law, for guidance during
any such structural inspection and review.
   (B)   Registration shall be required for all vacant buildings or structures,
whether vacant and secure, vacant and open, or vacant and boarded, and shall be
required whenever any building has remained vacant for 60 consecutive days or
more. In no instance shall the registration of a vacant building or structure
and the payment of registration fees be construed to exonerate the owner from
compliance with the City Building Code or Fire Code ordinance requirements. One
registration statement may be filed to include all vacant buildings or
structures of the owner so registering, but each building or structure
constitutes a separate registration fee. The owner of the vacant property as of
the last day of the month in each calendar year when the property is registered
shall be responsible for the payment of the non-refundable registration fee.
Said registration fee shall be billed by the city based on the duration of the
vacancy as determined by the following scale:
      (1)   No fee for properties that are vacant for less than one year;
      (2)   For properties that are vacant for at least one year but less than
two years, $0.20 per square foot;
      (3)   For properties that are vacant for at least two years but less than
three years, $0.40 per square foot;
      (4)   For properties that are vacant for at least three years but less
than four years, $0.60 per square foot;
      (5)   For properties that are vacant for at least four years but less
than five years, $0.80 per square foot;
      (6)   For properties that are vacant for at least five years, $1 per
square foot;
      (7)   For every year past five years, the fee shall increase $0.20 per
square foot each year; and
      (8)   For all vacant properties located in the “Business District,” as
defined in the
Chapter 152, the fees hereinabove shall be doubled.
         (a)   For the purposes of calculation of the registration fees under
this section, the amount of square footage charged to the owner shall not be
less than 1,200 square feet or greater than 15,000 square feet on any one
building or structure. For square footage, the City Recorder shall rely on the
measurements assigned by the County Assessor’s office.
         (b)   The duration of the vacancy for the purposes of determining the
fee runs with the property and will not be affected by a change in ownership. A
change in ownership of a vacant building or structure shall not remove the
vacant building or structure from the vacant properties registry. Any waiver
granted shall expire on change in ownership.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.103 RIGHT OF APPEAL AND WAIVER.
   (A)   The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition of a
registration fee to the Mayor by filing an application for appeal in writing
with the Building Inspector no later than 15 calendar days after the date of
the billing statement. On appeal, the owner shall bear the burden of providing
satisfactory objective proof of occupancy as defined in this subchapter
specifically.
   (B)   A waiver of the registration fee, or an extension of a waiver of the
registration fee for up to 90 days from the date of the current billing
statement, may be granted by the Mayor upon application for waiver of the owner
and upon review and advice of the Building Enforcement Agency; if the owner:
      (1)   (a)   Demonstrates, with satisfactory proof, to the Mayor that he,
she, or it is in the process of demolition, rehabilitation, or other
substantial repair of the vacant building or structure; and
         (b)   Objectively demonstrates to the Mayor a reasonable anticipated
length of time for the demolition, rehabilitation, or other substantial repair
of the vacant building or structure.
      (3)   (a)   Provides satisfactory proof to the Mayor that he, she, or it
was actively attempting to sell or lease the property during the vacancy
period; or
         (b)   Provides satisfactory proof to the Mayor to be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis that the vacancy is temporary and may be due to illness of
the owner, active military service, or some other reasonable explanation
believed to be short-term in nature and documentable as necessary.
   (C)   Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as possible, after the
application for appeal or request for waiver, or request for extension, is
received, the Mayor shall grant or deny the appeal or request for waiver, or
request for extension, in writing, and dispatch the written decision by mail to
the owner. If the owner properly submitted an application for appeal or request
for waiver, or request for extension, to the Mayor, and the Mayor rendered a
decision which the owner seeks to appeal to the City Council, the owner must
file a petition for appeal in writing no later than 30 calendar days from the
date of the Mayor’s decision. City Council shall either grant or deny the
appeal or request for waiver, or request for extension. Thereafter, the
decision of the City Council is final unless within 30 days of such decision
the owner appeals for injunctive relief to the circuit court of the county.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.104 AMENDING REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Duty to amend registration statement. If the status of the
registration information on a vacant building or structure changes during the
course of any calendar year, it is the responsibility of the owner to contact
the City Building Inspector within 30 days of the occurrence of such change and
advise the City Building Inspector in writing of those changes.
   (B)   Exceptions. This subchapter shall not apply to any building or
structure owned by the United States, the state, the city, or any of their
respective agencies or political subdivisions.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.105 REINSPECTION.
   All vacant buildings or structures are subject to reinspection on an annual
basis or as deemed necessary pursuant to §
150.100.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.106 NON-PAYMENT OF FEES - LIENS.
   (A)   After the owner is given notice of the amount of the vacant building
or structure registration fee due, except for those owners that have properly
perfected an appeal pursuant to §
150.103(A), and the owner fails to pay the amount due to the city in a timely
manner, said amount due shall constitute a debt due and owing to the city and
the city may commence a civil action to collect such unpaid debt.
   (B)   If an owner fails to pay the vacant building or structure registration
fee as assessed and the city begins the collection action to enforce its lien,
then the City Building Inspector shall post written notice of the collection
action on the property and send the written notice to the owner(s) by certified
or registered mail.
   (C)   In addition, the city may take action to sell the subject property by
means of forfeiture and the court ordered enforcement process to collect the
debt owed the city. Should the city take the steps necessary to sell the
subject property, the city shall do so, subject to all liens and real and
personal property taxes that are due. Purchasers of the subject property shall
be similarly responsible for registration pursuant to this subchapter in the
same manner as the prior owner and must begin the registration process anew if
said property remains vacant.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.107 RELATION TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS.
   It is to be understood that the intent and purpose of this subchapter is
separate and distinct from other provisions and sections of the ordinances of
the city and the general laws of the state which may also be applicable. The
provisions of this subchapter are applicable to the owners of such vacant
buildings and structures as set forth herein and are in addition to and not in
lieu of any and all other applicable provisions of the ordinances of the city
and Chapter 152.
(Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
150.001 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 or more than $100.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.030 through
150.033, for which no other penalty is provided or fails to comply therewith;
or violates or fails to comply with any order made thereunder; or builds in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder or any certificate or permit issued thereunder and from
which no appeal has been taken; or fails to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within
the time fixed herein, shall severally, for each such violation and non-
compliance respectively, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions
are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application of any
penalty pursuant to this division (C) shall not be held to prevent the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
150.045 through
150.049 shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $50.
   (E)   Any owner of a dwelling or other building under investigation by the
Enforcement Agency who fails to comply with the final order of the Enforcement
Agency, as stated in §
150.062, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine
of not more than $500. Each day that a violation continues or has not been
totally abated beyond the date given for the correction of said violation shall
be deemed a separate offense. The fine provided for in this section shall be in
addition to the civil remedies provided for in §
150.062.
   (F)   The failure or refusal, for any reason, of any owner to register a
vacant building or structure upon adoption of §§
150.095 through
150.107, or to comply with any of the other provisions of the same, or to pay
any fees required to be paid hereunder, within 30 days after the date they
become due, shall constitute a misdemeanor violation punishable, upon
conviction thereof, by a fine in the amount of not less than $100 nor more than
$500 for each such failure or refusal to register, or to comply with other
provisions of §§
150.095 through
150.107, or to pay a required vacant building or structure registration fee, as
applicable. It shall be a separate violation for each month that an owner fails
or refuses register, otherwise comply, or pay as aforesaid. In such cases,
whenever the minimum fine of $100 is imposed, it shall not be subject to
suspension or reduction for any reason.
(Ord. 300-03, passed - -; Ord. 100-10, passed 5-2-1977; Ord. 300-01, passed 4-
2-1990; Ord. 300-13, passed 5-5-2025)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Intent
   
151.002   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.003   Applicability
   
151.004   Matters not provided for specifically
Interpretations and Definitions
   
151.015   Interpretations
   
151.016   Definitions
Establishment of the Floodplain Area
   
151.030   Identification
   
151.031   Descriptions of floodplain areas
   
151.032   Changes in designation of area
   
151.033   Elevations prevail
   
151.034   Boundary disputes
Utilization of the Floodplain Area
   
151.045   Floodway (F1)
   
151.046   Floodway fringe (F2) and approximated floodplain (F4)
   
151.047   AE area without floodway (F3)
   
151.048   Alteration or relocation of a stream
Criteria for Building and Site Plan Approval
   
151.060   General
   
151.061   Basic format
   
151.062   Elevation and floodproofing information
   
151.063   Site plan criteria
Specific Requirements
   
151.075   Design and construction standards
Administration
   
151.090   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.091   Development permits and site plan approvals required
   
151.092   Approval of permits and plans
   
151.093   Application procedures
   
151.094   Changes
   
151.095   Permit placards
   
151.096   Start of construction
   
151.097   Stop work orders, inspections, revocations
   
151.098   Certificate of compliance
   
151.099   Fees
Appeals
   
151.110   Appeals
   
151.111   Appeal review criteria
Government Actions
   
151.125   Municipal annexation
   
151.126   Permits for government entities
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water supply
and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian, and to
protect natural drainage;
   (D)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning improvement
of real property as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3A;
   (E)   Assure County E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency of
established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (F)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units, and its residents, by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.002 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business, or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken any
development, new construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial
damage, or the placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured
homes) within the city, unless a permit application has been completed and a
permit or certificate of compliance has been obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (2)   In addition, where land partially or fully in the floodplain is to
be developed, subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision,
or otherwise developed, a site plan with elevation data must be submitted to,
and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development.
   (B)   Provision of all other codes, ordinances, and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004 MATTERS NOT PROVIDED FOR SPECIFICALLY.
   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided for
herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent, and shall require the
applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
§ 151.015 INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following interpretations shall apply:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense;
   (B)   The singular includes the plural;
   (C)   The plural includes the singular;
   (D)   The term SHALL or WILL is always mandatory;
   (E)   The word BUILDING or STRUCTURE shall be construed as if followed by
the phrase “or parts thereof”; and
   (F)   The words THIS CHAPTER shall refer to the floodplain ordinance.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood, which has been selected to serve as the basis upon
which the floodplain management provisions of this chapter and other ordinances
have been prepared; for purposes of this chapter, the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the entire development,
including the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a structure, is in
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   A person who, in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck, or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure or excavation associated with a project, development, or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $1,000 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee.
      (2)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
         (a)   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
         (b)   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property, which the person owns or leases, whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
         (c)   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and who
functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board, whose
primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management, and
maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional capacity and any
employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or her employment,
performs any work which may be considered to be performing contracting work;
         (d)   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code § 19-16A-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire, unless the
operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property treated
for insect pests; or
         (e)   1.   A corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship whose
primary purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
CONTRACTORS defined in this section and who employs full time a registered
architect licensed to practice in the state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in the state.
            2.   CONTRACTOR also does not include employees of such
corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream, or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be the FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR unless a FLOODPLAIN
ADMINISTRATOR is employed by the city.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR may also be identified as the
FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FREEBOARD.
      (1)   A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management.
      (2)   FREEBOARD tends to compensate for unknown factors that may
contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given flood and floodway
condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream crossings, and increased
runoff from urbanization of the watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME DEALER. A business licensed to sell manufactured
homes in the state as set forth in the state code.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the state code.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the State Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in the state code.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood resistant materials,
as defined in the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) and usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction, as herein
defined, commenced on or after April 5, 1974, and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
      (1)   (a)   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code Ch.
30, Art. 13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering education,
training, and experience in the application of special knowledge of the
mathematical, physical, and engineering sciences to such services or creative
work as consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning, and design of
engineering works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of
advanced engineering subjects, engineering surveys, and studies; and the review
of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications, any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects, and industrial or consumer
products, or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health, or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress, and completion of any engineering services.
         (b)   ENGINEERING SURVEYS include all survey activities required to
support the sound conception, planning, design, construction, maintenance, and
operation of engineered projects.
      (2)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card, or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code Ch. 30,
Art. 13 or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs
any ENGINEERING SERVICE or work, or any other service designated by the
practitioner which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or
offer to practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code Ch.
30, Art. 13.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVEGROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is aboveground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered or
licensed as a REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers as required under W. Va. Code Ch. 30,
Art. 13 et seq.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water will not damage
structures, and any subsurface waters related to the base flood will not damage
existing or proposed structures.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   START OF CONSTRUCTION is to be used only when calculating the
starting time for the expiration of a permit.
      (2)   (a)   The date the permit was issued, including permits for
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; provided, the ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond initial excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
         (b)   Although a permit must be obtained prior to beginning, permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling, nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds, not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The State Division of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management.
   STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3U, any watercourse, whether natural
or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred. See SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (3)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT must comply with all chapter requirements
that do not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic
structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance requirement will cause
removal of the structure from the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from the Secretary of the
Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from
ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
      (4)   For the purpose of this definition, IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   TOP OF BANK.
      (1)   The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the TOP OF BANK.
      (2)   In the field, a professional familiar with fluvial geomorphology
should document the TOP OF BANK.
      (3)   When a professional is not employed, the TOP OF THE BANK will be
considered to be the top of the first significant slope landward of the water’s
edge when it is followed by at least 50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required by this chapter
is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA
§ 151.030 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of the city which
are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) prepared for the city
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated April 16, 1991, or the
most recent revision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   The identified floodplain area shall also be those areas of the
city which have been identified as flood hazard areas by the city by use of
historic or other technical data and shown on the City Flood Hazards Map.
      (2)   These areas shall be designated as appropriate with the level of
technical data described below and shall be managed accordingly.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.031 DESCRIPTIONS OF FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   The identified floodplain shall consist of the following four specific
areas.
   (A)   (1)   The floodway area (F1) shall be those areas identified as such
in the FIS and as shown on the floodway map or FIRM. The term shall also
include floodway areas identified in other studies for the approximated area
discussed in division (D) below.
      (2)   In floodplain areas for which no regulatory floodway has been
designated, the regulatory floodway for small, single-lot development not
incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the
community, be considered to be the channel of the stream and the adjacent land
areas to a distance of one-half the width of the floodplain as measured from
the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland limit of the 100-year
floodplain boundary.
   (B)   The floodway fringe area (F2) shall be those areas for which specific
100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but which lie beyond
the floodway area.
   (C)   The AE area without floodway (F3) shall be those areas identified as
an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year
flood elevations have been provided but no floodway has been delineated.
   (D)   (1)   The approximated area (F4) shall be those areas identified as an
A Zone on the FIRM or floodway map included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for
which no 100-year flood elevations have been provided.
      (2)   For these areas, elevation and floodway information from other
federal, state, or other acceptable source shall be used when available. Where
other acceptable information is not available, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to determine the elevation with hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering or other techniques. When hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer who shall certify that the methods used correctly reflect
currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall include a
cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a statement of
findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses, compilations, and the
like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical
review by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.032 CHANGES IN DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The delineation of the identified floodplain area may be revised by
the city where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or more detailed
studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a River
Basin Commission, or other qualified agency or individual document the
necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   (B)   The city may identify and regulate new flood hazard or ponding areas.
These areas may be delineated using locally derived technical information such
as flood of record, historic high water marks, and/or topographic data.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.033 ELEVATIONS PREVAIL.
   (A)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed development within an
identified flood hazard area is at or above the base flood elevation specified
in the Flood Insurance Study, the structure shall not be required to conform to
the flood prevention design and construction standards or flood-related
development codes in §
151.075. Topographic data certified by a registered professional engineer or
licensed professional surveyor shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow
a thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator. The applicant is advised to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA to have the special flood
hazard area designation removed from the parcel or structure.
   (B)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed development is below
the base flood elevation specified in the Flood Insurance Study, the site shall
be considered to be within the floodplain area and the proposed structure shall
be required to conform to all appropriate provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.034 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any district boundary arise, an initial
determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator and any party
aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the City Council. The burden of proof
shall be on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
UTILIZATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA
§ 151.045 FLOODWAY (F1).
   (A)   Within any floodway area (F1), no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment will not result in any increase in the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      (1)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements in
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) below, the applicant shall demonstrate that there
are no reasonable alternatives other than the floodway encroachment before a
permit is issued.
      (2)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative the applicant
shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum necessary to
accomplish the project.
      (3)   All permitted uses, activities, and development shall be undertaken
in strict compliance with the floodproofing and related provisions contained
herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.046 FLOODWAY FRINGE (F2) AND APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN (F4).
   (A)   In the floodway fringe (F2) and approximated floodplain (F4), any
development and/or use of land shall be permitted; provided, that all such
uses, activities, and/or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance
with the floodproofing and related provisions contained herein and in all other
applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
      (1)   In the approximated floodplain (F4), the Floodplain Administrator
shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed, all proposed development not
covered by division (B) below to ascertain the amount being invested and the
specific flood risk at the building site and assign a minimal, moderate, or
significant risk level.
         (a)   Development determined to represent a minimal risk and costing
less than $10,000 shall be required to provide the point on boundary elevation
data and historic flood heights. The Floodplain Administrator shall attempt to
determine a height that will be reasonably safe from flooding using this
elevation data. The Floodplain Administrator shall enter the flood height in
Section G of the elevation certificate. Any new or substantially improved
structures permitted using this method (other than appurtenant structures)
shall be required to have the lowest floor elevated at least three feet above
the highest adjacent grade, even if the point on boundary or historic flood
height data would indicate a lower flood elevation. If this method is not
adequate to allow the Floodplain Administrator to confidently determine the
flood height or if the applicant is not satisfied with the height determined,
the applicant shall be required to utilize one of the alternate methods set
forth in division (A)(1)(b)1. below.
         (b)   1.   Development determined to represent a low to moderate risk
and/or costing less than $50,000 shall provide the results of a quick-
2 engineering analysis or attempt to obtain a free base flood elevation by
submitting a letter of map amendment request to FEMA or obtain flood height
data by using the USGS methodology set forth in the USGS Water Resources
Investigations Report 87-4111. These semi-detailed methods will be used by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine a community flood elevation.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator shall enter the community flood
elevation in Section G of the elevation certificate. If the applicant is not
satisfied with the height determined, the applicant shall be required to
utilize the method set forth in division (A)(1)(c) below.
         (c)   Development determined to represent a high risk and/or costing
more than $50,000 shall develop a base flood elevation using a detailed
engineering study method such as HEC-ras. This data shall be prepared and
certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify that the
methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The
resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms and a completed
elevation certificate. In addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the
like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical
review by the Floodplain Administrator. Base flood elevations determined using
this method can be used to rate flood insurance, typically resulting in a
reduced premium.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the approximated
floodplain area (F4) and which are greater than ten lots or two acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data.
      (1)   This data may be available from an authoritative source, such as
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource
Conservation Service, or state and local water resource department.
      (2)   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a Flood Insurance Study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.047 AE AREA WITHOUT FLOODWAY (F3).
   Within any AE area without floodway, no new construction or development
shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than
one foot at any point. This requirement can be satisfied by utilization of the
floodway area where determined.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.048 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF A STREAM.
   (A)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within the
floodplain area, the developer shall notify, in writing, by certified mail, the
city’s Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office, and any
adjacent communities of all such intended activities prior to the alteration or
relocation of the stream. Copies of all required notifications must be
submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration, in addition, prior to
issuing the local permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of
all necessary permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or
state law requires approval. Contact information for state and federal
permitting authorities, as well as addresses for required notification of
appropriate county, state, and federal government agencies, are contained in
the city’s stream alteration administrative procedures.
   (B)   The developer shall also assure the city in writing that the carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of the stream will provide
equal or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by professional
engineers, who shall certify that the methods used correctly reflect currently
accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter,
signed by the responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in
basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall
be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges, or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain best practice techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts, or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings, and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates, or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
   (D)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts, and other stream crossings
shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   The developer is required to provide the community a legal
agreement detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed
on altered or relocated watercourses including culverts, bridges, and other
stream crossings.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer this
agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred.
      (3)   A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (4)   Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to the
Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (F)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations, or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the Flood
Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
CRITERIA FOR BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL
§ 151.060 GENERAL.
   Permits are required in order to determine whether all new construction or
substantial improvements are:
   (A)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway, or other flood hazard
area;
   (B)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) or the most
recent revision thereof;
   (D)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
   (E)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.061 BASIC FORMAT.
   The basic format of the permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed development is to
occur;
   (C)   Names, addresses, and a valid state license numbers of all contractors
working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is being
performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing as set forth in IBC
2018 or the most recent revision thereof;
   (D)   A description of site location sufficient to locate the project
including tax map and parcel number;
   (E)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation, and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
   (F)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
151.099;
   (G)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
   (H)   The contract required by IBC 2018 and all addendums to the contract(s)
shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator for review within five
business days of the contract signing. The community does not require and will
not keep copies of the contracts or addendums. Failure to present contract or
addendums for review shall void the permit. If a licensed contractor is not
involved, or the work is of an aggregate value of less than $10,000 including
materials and labor, a brief written description of proposed work and the
estimated value will suffice.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.062 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING INFORMATION.
   (A)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation
requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the
freeboard height required by this chapter.
   (B)   Depending on the type of structure involved, the following information
shall also be included in the application for work within the floodplain area.
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure,
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures, and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas, and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error; and
         (f)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the community determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a non-conforming use (generally, areas below base flood elevation
with ceilings higher than five feet). This agreement shall state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (B)   For structures to be floodproofed to two feet above the base flood
elevation (non-residential structures only), all applicants are encouraged to
exceed the minimum floodproofing requirements contained herein. Flood insurance
rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of floodproofing
above the height required by this chapter. In order to obtain an elevation
credited flood insurance rate on dry floodproofed buildings, floodproofing must
extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (1)   Plans showing details of all floodproofing measures, prepared by a
registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed.
      (2)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing ground,
proposed finished ground, lowest floor, and floodproofing limits, certified by
a registered professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor.
      (3)   A floodproofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA, shall
be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the plans in
division (B)(1) above, stating the structure in question, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities is designed so that:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above
the base flood elevation; and
         (b)   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact, and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures, and other factors associated with the base flood.
   (C)   For structures constructed of flood resistant materials used solely
for parking of vehicles, or storage (appurtenant structures only):
      (1)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others
of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground, proposed
finished ground, and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of proposed
flood resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the floodway
boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present on the
site;
      (2)   An elevation report or certificate, based on finished construction,
must be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. This certificate or report must confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities, is designed so that:
            1.   Flood resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), are used in the construction of the structure from
the lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation, and
that all utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood
elevation;
            2.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect, or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
      (3)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
151.999.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.063 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   The owner or developer of any proposed development, including subdivisions
and manufactured home parks, shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information.
   (A)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor, or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section.
   (B)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to floodplain areas, proposed lot sites, and fills. In
addition, it is required that all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
developments which are proposed to take place either fully or partially within
the approximated floodplain (F4) and which are greater than ten lots or two
acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and
shall delineate a floodway. If FEMA has completed a Flood Insurance Study
(FIS), that data must be used to substantiate the base flood. Otherwise, the
developer may submit data provided by an authoritative source, such as U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resources Conservation
Service, state and local water resource departments, or technical data
developed using detailed methodologies comparable to those contained in a Flood
Insurance Study. This data shall be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
   (C)   Where the subdivision and/or development lies partially or completely
in the floodplain areas, the plan map shall include detailed information giving
the location and elevation of proposed roads, public utilities, and building
sites. All such maps shall also show contours at intervals of two or five feet
depending upon the slope of the land and identify accurately the boundaries of
the floodplain areas.
   (D)   (1)   Where the subdivision lies partially in the floodplain area and
all proposed development will take place on natural grade, a significant
vertical distance above the floodplain area, development of detailed base flood
elevation data may not be necessary.
      (2)   In these cases, the site plan for the proposed development must
show contours at intervals of two or five feet and clearly delineate the area
to be developed, and the location of the floodplain areas as depicted on the
FEMA map.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer, licensed professional surveyor,
or others of demonstrated qualifications must certify the site plan.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.075 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures, and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction, and to
construction of substantial improvements, and the repair of substantial damage,
to existing structures occurring in the floodplain area.
   (A)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation, and
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation, and
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of non-
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   (B)   Manufactured home placement. Certain unique characteristics of
manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas pose an elevated risk of
substantial damage to property. Thus:
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the identified flood
hazard areas of the city shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid
State Manufactured Home Installer’s license. The installer shall use an
installation design engineered to withstand flood hazards specific to the
particular home site. Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
within the flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance with the
following standards:
         (a)   The lowest floor, ductwork, and utilities, including HVAC/heat
pumps, shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent foundation
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength engineered for use
in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating dry stacked block
piers shall not be used in flood hazard areas;
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of
IBC 2018, and as authorized by W. Va. Code § 21-9-4. The anchoring shall be
adequate to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, the over-the-top and frame ties,
attached to permanent foundation elements. Ground anchors may not be adequate
to satisfy flood specific anchoring requirements. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces.
         (d)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and perimeter wall skirts of
brick or block must have openings; this type of skirting can collapse during
floods and compromise supporting piers. The openings must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (2)   The licensed State Manufactured Home Installer placing the unit
shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the manufactured
home has been installed to the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, appurtenant structures
shall be located out of the floodplain area or elevated to two feet above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply.
         (a)   Structures shall be no more than 600 square feet in size and
valued at less than $10,000.
         (b)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
         (c)   Structures shall be located, oriented, and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
         (d)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
         (e)   Flood resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2), shall be used in the construction of the structure
from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (f)   Machinery, electric devices, or appliances, and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (g)   The venting requirements contained in division (A) above are
applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant stating
that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or attached garage shall
not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that the structure may be
subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood insurance premiums may be
possible, and that a change in use may require full compliance with this
chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence of
this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature, and a copy of
all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure
to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain
Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
151.999.
   (D)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any floodplain area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (E)   Fill. The city officially recognizes the beneficial functions the
floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
Placement of fill in the floodplain area is discouraged and should be
minimized. In the floodway, no fill shall be permitted unless it meets the
requirements of §
151.045. All fill placed in the floodplain area shall meet or exceed the
following standards:
      (1)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The city may require the applicant to
demonstrate, through engineering reports, that proposed fill would not
adversely affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers who shall certify
that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical
concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed
by the responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic
terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be
submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
city. During permit review, the community shall consider the following issues
that have the potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
         (a)   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
         (b)   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
         (c)   Deflection of floodwaters onto adjacent existing structures;
         (d)   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating erosion
problems; and
         (e)   Other unique site conditions may be considered when determining
whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent properties including, but
not limited to, subsidence areas, karst topography, stream blockages, and steep
topography adjacent to the channel.
      (2)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
      (3)   Filled site must be contoured to drain properly (avoid ponding).
      (4)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in division (E)(5) below. For non-residential structures, fill
shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use. At grade access,
with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the building line, shall be
provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a non-residential structure.
      (5)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted, and no trash or woody debris shall be buried
on site.
      (6)   (a)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary
stability and resistance to erosion, scouring, or settling.
         (b)   Fill compaction standards must be appropriate to proposed post
fill use, and particular attention is necessary when fill is being used to
elevate a structure.
      (7)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (8)   Fill site and fill must be protected from erosion.
         (a)   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters, with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less, must
be protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds, or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
         (b)   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters, with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second,
must be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
      (9)   All applicants placing fill in a mapped flood hazard area must
obtain a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant must convert the CLOMR to a letter of map revision
based on fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
      (10)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations, or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the Flood Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by
the Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
   (F)   Placement of structures. All buildings and structures shall be
constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the
flow of water, and shall be designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon
the flow and height of floodwater.
      (1)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
      (2)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately on
the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
   (G)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures including stream crossings shall be
firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to life and
property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge openings and
other restricted sections of the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, and storage tanks located at or below
the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation.
   (H)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank or 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall
be maintained in this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the
watercourse and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be
given to planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks and enhance
aquatic resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this division (H).
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front, and back lot line setbacks.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
      (3)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this chapter, material that resembles fill material
shall not be considered storage material for purposes of this division (I).
   (J)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (K)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazard.
   (L)   Backflow preventers. Backflow prevention valves should be used for all
enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
floodplain.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.090 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor is hereby appointed as Floodplain Administrator to administer and
implement this local law by granting or denying floodplain development permits
in accordance with its provisions. The city may choose to employ a Floodplain
Administrator at any regular or special meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.091 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND SITE PLAN APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business, or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new
construction. substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage, the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
the city unless a permit application and standard site plan has been completed,
and a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator. In addition,
where land that is either partially or fully in the regulatory floodplain is to
be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park, or subdivision or
otherwise developed, a detailed site plan must be submitted to, and approved
by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.092 APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND PLANS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code § 21-9-9.
   (D)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit,
shall require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is
duty licensed as a contractor under the provisions of the state code.
      (2)   If the applicant is not licensed, a written affidavit that such
person is not subject to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor, as defined
in W. Va. Code § 21-9-2, shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
placed in the permit file.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3A.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits for
new structures to the County E-911 addressing coordinator.
   (H)   The County E-911 addressing coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the County Floodplain
Administrator.
   (I)   The city shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this chapter.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.093 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for a permit and/or site plan approvals shall be made, in
writing, on the forms supplied by the city and shall include all information
stipulated under §§
151.060 through
151.063.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.094 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit,
or any of the plans, specification, or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.095 PERMIT PLACARDS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit placard, which shall
be prominently displayed on the premises during the time construction is in
progress.
   (B)   This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of its
issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.096 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed development shall begin within 180 days after the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   All work on the proposed development must be completed within 18
months of permit issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time
extension is granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request
for a time extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the
extension.
   (C)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria.
      (1)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months?
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health, or welfare, or injurious to other property?
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.097 STOP WORK ORDERS, INSPECTIONS, REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   Stop-work orders.
      (1)   (a)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be
issued, a stop work order notice for any development found ongoing without
having obtained a permit.
         (b)   Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
151.999.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a
stop work order notice for any development found non-compliant with the
provisions of this law and/or the conditions of the permit. Disregard of a stop
work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in §
151.999.
   (B)   Inspections and revocations.
      (1)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (2)   If the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does not
comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances, or
that there has been false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant, the
Floodplain Administrator shall issue a stop work order notice, revoke the
permit, and request a temporary injunction.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may
inspect any development covered by this or previous ordinance to determine
whether any portion of the development has been altered to be in non-compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.098 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to permit
the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted, or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance
has been issued by the Local Floodplain Administrator stating that the building
or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Occupying or using a
building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
151.999.
   (B)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to inspect and approve
a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until the inspector
is in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by the Local
Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development being
inspected conforms to the requirements of this local law. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
151.999.
   (C)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to install a permanent
utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the Local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the development conforms to the requirements of this local law. Installation of
utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
151.999.
   (D)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the Local Administrator
upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of special flood
hazard.
   (E)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, floodproofing
certificate, or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.099 FEES.
   (A)   A floodplain determination fee of $20, payable to the city, shall be
assessed on all proposed development. If the individual comes in voluntarily to
file the fee, it may be waived.
   (B)   (1)   Application for a permit for proposed development determined to
be occurring in a flood hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be
accompanied by an additional fee, payable to the city, based upon the estimated
value of the proposed construction as determined by the Floodplain
Administrator at the following rates:
Estimated Cost Permit Fees
Estimated Cost    Permit Fees
$0-$500           No fee
$501-$2,500       $15
$2,501-$5,000     $20
$5,001-$10,000    $30
$10,001-$15,000   $60
$15,001-$50,000   $60 first $15,000, plus $3.50 each additional 1,000 or
                  fraction thereof
$50,001-$100,000  $182.50 first $50,000, plus $3 each additional 1,000 or
                  fraction thereof
$100,001-$500,000 $332.50 first $100,000, plus $2.25 each additional 1,000 or
                  fraction thereof
$500,001 and up   $1,457.50 first $500,000, plus $1.75 additional 1,000 or
                  fraction thereof
 
      (2)   For the moving of any building or structure, the fee shall be $50.
      (3)   For the demolition of any building or structure, the fee shall be
$25.
   (C)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the
city for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services.
   (D)   (1)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which
a permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit, the fees above specified shall be doubled.
      (2)   The additional fee is intended to partially reimburse the county
for the additional cost of processing permits for work already underway.
      (3)   To more fully recover this cost, the fees above shall be tripled
for every subsequent occurrence by the same person.
      (4)   Payment of the increased fee shall not relieve any person from
complying fully with the requirements of this chapter in the execution of the
work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
APPEALS
§ 151.110 APPEALS.
   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is the right of
that person to appeal to the City Council, which shall be known as the Appeals
Board. Such appeal must be filed with the City Council, in writing, within 30
days after notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal, the
Appeals Board shall set a time and place not less than ten, nor more than 60,
days for the purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be given to all parties at which time they may appear and be
heard. The determination by the Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.111 APPEAL REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative substantial
damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement, or the freeboard
requirements, may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Board.
   (B)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter shall
adhere to the following criteria:
      (1)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the appeal would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of an appeal will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing locals laws or ordinance.
      (2)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
      (3)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a decision to allow construction of a structure
below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases risk
to life and property. Such notifications shall be maintained with a record of
all decisions as required in this division (B).
      (5)   The Appeals Board shall:
         (a)   Maintain a record of all decisions including justification for
their issuance; and
         (b)   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
      (6)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any construction,
development, use, or activity within any floodway area that would cause any
increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
GOVERNMENT ACTIONS
§ 151.125 MUNICIPAL ANNEXATION.
   (A)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets the requirements for participation in the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   (B)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards.
   (C)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the floodplain boundaries,
base flood elevation, and location of the floodway where determined.
   (D)   (1)   In accordance with the 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), subpart (B),
all NFIP participating communities must notify the Federal Insurance
Administration in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been
modified by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area.
      (2)   In order that all Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent
the community’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority must be included with the notification.
   (E)   NFIP participating communities must notify the State Coordinating
Office in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified
by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority
to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. A
copy of a map of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating
the new corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority must be included with
the notification.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.126 PERMITS FOR GOVERNMENT ENTITIES.
   Unless specifically exempted by law, all public utilities and municipal,
county, state, and federal entities are required to comply with this chapter
and obtain all necessary permits. Any entity claiming to be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter must provide a written statement setting forth the
rationale for exemption. In addition, the entity claiming exemption shall
provide copies of all relevant legal documentation demonstrating the exemption.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or any
other authorized employee of the community, shall be unlawful and shall be
referred to the Municipal Attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute all such
violators.
   (B)   A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the city of not less
than $50 or more than $500, plus cost of prosecution. In default of such
payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten days.
Each day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to division (B) above, all other actions are hereby
reserved, including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or non-
compliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
with the chapter or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy such violations or non-compliance within a
reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered,
or relocated in non-compliance with this chapter may be declared by the city to
be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. 300-04A, passed 9-5-2008)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Interpretation
   
152.004   Existing uses safeguard
   
152.005   Administration and enforcement
   
152.006   Violations
Uses and Construction
   
152.020   Non-conforming uses
   
152.021   Prohibited uses, performance standards
   
152.022   Parking, driveways, loading facilities
   
152.023   Landscaping
   
152.024   Floodplain requirements
   
152.025   Structures to have access
   
152.026   Private street construction standards
   
152.027   Accessory buildings
   
152.028   Site plans
   
152.029   Fencing
   
152.030   Satellite dishes
   
152.031   Bed and breakfast establishments
Classification of Districts
   
152.045   Classes of districts
   
152.046   Official zoning map or maps
   
152.047   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.048   Application of district regulations
Use Regulations
   
152.060   D-1 Single Dwelling Residential District
   
152.061   D-2 Multiple Dwelling District
   
152.062   B-1 Business District
   
152.063   B-2 Industrial District
   
152.064   B-3 Recreational district
Area and Height Regulations
   
152.075   Area and height regulations
   
152.076   Area and height regulations for D-1
   
152.077   Area and height regulations for D-2
   
152.078   Area and height regulations for B-1, B-2, B-3
   
152.079   Comparison of variance, special exception, spot zoning
   
152.080   Summary of classifications of different zoning districts as
designated on the Official Zoning Map
Mobile Homes and Trailer Courts
   
152.095   Definitions
   
152.096   Permit and fees
   
152.097   Location, space, general layout
   
152.098   Water supply and plumbing
   
152.099   Sewage disposable
   
152.100   Refuse disposal
   
152.101   Electricity
   
152.102   Fuel
   
152.103   Fire protection
   
152.104   House trailers
Planning Commission
   
152.115   Creation
   
152.116   Membership
   
152.117   Advisory members
   
152.118   Regular, special meetings
   
152.119   Quorum
   
152.120   Offices; appropriation for expenses
   
152.121   Election of officers
   
152.122   Appointment, duties, compensation
   
152.123   Appropriations, expenditures; disposition of gifts; participation in
federal planning assistance programs
   
152.124   Recommendations, adoption
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.135   Creation
   
152.136   Membership
   
152.137   Election of officers, quorum, compensation
   
152.138   Offices, appropriation for expenses
   
152.139   Rules and regulations; procedures; minutes and records
   
152.140   Powers, authority, duties
   
152.141   Hearing of appeals
   
152.142   Action by circuit court or judge
   
152.143   Injunction
   
152.144   Regular, special meetings
   
152.145   Special, temporary services
Permits and Certifications
   
152.160   Requirements of permits
   
152.161   Certificate of occupancy
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts, wards, or areas as herein described
have been established for the purpose of securing adequate light, air,
conveniences of access, and safety from fire, flood, and other danger; that
congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided; that the public
health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and general public welfare may be
promoted; that the future development of the city may be planned for to the end
that highway systems be carefully planned; that new community centers grow only
with adequate highway, utility, health, education, and recreational facilities;
that the needs of agriculture, industry, and business be recognized in future
growth; that residential areas provide healthy surroundings for family life;
and that the growth of the community is commensurate with and promotive of the
efficient and economical use of public funds.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Inclusions. For the purposes of this chapter, words and terms used
herein shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future.
      (2)   The singular includes the plural.
      (3)   The plural includes the singular.
      (4)   The word PERSON includes a corporation, unincorporated association,
or a partnership, as well as the individual.
      (5)   The word LOT includes the word PLOT or PARCEL.
      (6)   The term SHALL is always mandatory.
      (7)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE, and shall be
construed as if followed by the phrase “or part thereof.”
      (8)   The word STREET means a way for vehicular traffic, whether designed
as a court, boulevard, avenue, expressway, highway, lane, and road, or however
otherwise designated whether open and used or not.
      (9)   The word WATERCOURSE includes channel, creek, ditch, drain, dry
run, spring, stream, or river.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building subordinate to the principal building on a
lot, used for purposes customarily incidental to those of the principal
buildings, and not to be used for residential purposes unless such building was
originally designated for residential use, as in conjunction with an
institution.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to principal use of land or of a
building on a lot and customarily incidental thereto.
      APARTMENT. A room or group of rooms in an apartment house or an apartment
hotel designated for and occupied exclusively as a residence for only one
family.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
      ATTACHED DWELLING. See DWELLING, ATTACHED.
      BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the municipality.
      BUILDING. Any structure which is built for the support, shelter, or
enclosure of person, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
      BUILDING AREA. The ground area utilized by the building on a lot,
excluding cornices, eaves, gutters, or chimneys projecting not more than 30
inches from the walls of the building, steps, one-story open porches, bay
windows, and balconies not extending through more than one story and not
projecting more than five feet from the walls of the building, balconies, and
terraces.
      BUILDING LINE. The line which establishes the minimum depth of front yard
for the particular district as measured from the right-of-way line.
      CITY. The City of Glenville, West Virginia. Also known as MUNICIPALITY.
      CITY UTILITY. A public utility franchised by the P.S.C. (Public Service
Commission) to supply water and sewer services to the public and which is owned
by the city.
      COMMISSION. The City Municipal Planning Commission.
      COUNCIL. The City Council.
      DISTRICT, WARD, or AREA. An area of the city delineated on the Official
Zoning Map or Maps within which area the regulations of this chapter are
uniform throughout.
      DUPLEX. A two-family residential structure, the residential units
arranged one above the other or having a common party wall.
      DWELLING. A dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. One of two or more residential buildings having a
common or party wall separating dwelling units.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A residential building entirely surrounded by open
space on its building lot.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
         (a)   A building constructed to contain two or more dwelling units,
with the number of families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling
units provided.
         (b)   For purposes of this chapter, apartment houses and townhouses
are MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
      DWELLINGS, PORTABLE. A until built on a chassis, having wheels or
designed to be transported on wheels, designed to be used as a dwelling when
attached to a foundation and when connected to the required facilities.
      DOUBLE-WIDE OR TRIPLE-WIDE PORTABLE DWELLING. A portable dwelling
consisting respectively of two or three sections combined horizontally at the
site to form a single dwelling.
      DWELLING, SINGLE. A residential dwelling unit, or a portable dwelling,
designed for and occupied by one family only.
      DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A residential building containing not more than two
dwelling units, arranged one above the other or side by side, designed to be
occupied by not more than two families.
      DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms, connected together, constituting a
separate independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or can be
rented or sold.
      EXCEPTION. See SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
      FAMILY. Two or more person related by blood, marriage, or legal adoption,
or not more than four unrelated persons, occupying a dwelling unit and
maintaining a common household.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls,
to include basements but not to include unfinished attics. FLOOR AREA, for use
in determining off-street parking requirements, shall not include space devoted
to storage. GROSS FLOOR AREA includes covered porches, decks, and patios.
      FLOOR AREA, HABITABLE. The floor area within outside walls, exclusive of
basements and open porches, and excluding garages, accessory building, and
hallways serving more than one dwelling unit.
      FLOOR AREA, RATIO. The ratio of the floor area to the lot area.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. A building’s vertical measurement from the mean level
of the ground surrounding the building to a point midway between the highest
and lowest points of the roof; provided that chimneys, spires, towers, elevator
penthouses, tanks, and similar projections shall not be included in calculating
the height.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of
the immediate family residing on the premises, without advertising, in
connection with which there is used no sign or display that will indicate from
the exterior that the building is being used in whole or in part for any
purpose other than that of a dwelling; that there is no commodity sold upon the
premises; and no person is employed other than a member of the immediate family
residing on the premises. A professional person may use his or her residence
for infrequent consultation, emergency treatment, or performance of religious
rites, but not for the general practice of his or her profession.
      HOUSE TRAILERS. See MOBILE HOME.
      LOT. A parcel of land at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for the zoning district within which it lies for use, coverage,
and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein
required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street or approved
private street.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
real lot lines of a building lot, and for purposes of this chapter, shall
include any portion of an easement which may exist within such property lines.
      LOT DEPTH. The lot depth is the length of a line connecting the mid-
points of the front and rear lot lines.
      LOT LINE. A boundary line of a lot.
      LOT WIDTH. The length of a line drawn perpendicular to the lot depth
line) connecting the side lot lines.
      MALL. Group of two or more business establishments bordering on and
having customers entrances from an enclosed common area. See SHOPPING CENTER.
      MOBILE HOME. See DWELLING, PORTABLE and DWELLING, SINGLE, and §§
152.095 through
152.103; and TRAILER COACH, and §
152.104.
      MODULAR UNIT. A factory-fabricated transportable building designed to be
used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a building site into
a modular structure. The term is intended to apply to major assemblies, and
does not include prefabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees, and other
prefabricated sub-elements incorporated into a structure at the site.
      NON-CONFORMING. A building use or lot which, by reason of design, size,
or use does not conform with the requirements of the district, or districts in
which it is located.
      OPEN SPACE. The part of a lot including courts or yards which is open and
unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, which is accessible to all
residents upon a building lot and which is not part of a roof.
      PARKING SPACE. A space available for the parking of one motor vehicle,
not less than nine feet wide and having an area not less than 180 square feet
exclusive of passageways, driveways, or other means of circulation or access.
      SECTIONAL HOME. A dwelling made of two or more modular units transported
to the home site, put on a foundation and joined to make a singular dwelling.
      SHOPPING CENTER. Group of two or more business establishments each having
its outside customer entrance to a shared parking area, which has limited
designated entrance points. See MALL.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use that would not be appropriate generally or
without restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as
to number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in such
zoning district as SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS in accordance with §
152.135. A SPECIAL EXCEPTION shall apply to the specific business for which
granted and shall run with the ownership of the person or person to whom
granted. On the death of the person or person to whom granted, or on the
cessation of the activity for which the special exception is granted, the
SPECIAL EXCEPTION terminates. The business, specifically, cannot be sold, give
away, or bequeathed with the benefit of the SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
      SPOT ZONING. Granting of a zoning classification to a piece of land that
differs from that of the other land in the immediate area. The term refers to
zoning which singles out an area for treatment different from that of similar
surrounding land and which cannot be justified on the basis of health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the community and which is not in accordance with
a comprehensive plan.
      STREET. A public or privately owned right-of-way, serving as a means of
vehicular and pedestrian travel, and furnishing access to abutting properties,
whether open and used or not.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, walls, and fences.
      TRAILER COACH. See MOBILE HOME.
      VARIANCE. Permission to depart from the literal requirements of a zoning
ordinance. An authorization to a property owner to depart from literal
requirements of zoning requirements in utilization of his or her property in
cases in which strict enforcement of the zoning regulations would cause undue
hardship.
      YARD. The required open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a
building, open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending the full width of the lot along the street
line, and not less in depth, measured from the street line, than the minimum
required in each district.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot along the rear lot
line, and not less in depth, measured from the rear lot line, than the minimum
required in each district.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along the side lot line from the front yard
to the rear yard, and not less in width, measured from the side lot line, than
the minimum required in each district.
      ZONE. See DISTRICT.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, morals, or general welfare.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.004 EXISTING USES SAFEGUARD.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the continuance of the
use of any land, building, or structure for the same purpose for which such
land, buildings, or structure is used at the time the chapter takes effect. See
§
152.020.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.005 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Board of Zoning Appeals, the City
Building Inspectors, the city, the City Police Department, the Municipal
Planning Commission, or someone so designated by them.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.006 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to secure a permit, or an improvement, location, or use
permit, when required, previous to the erection, construction, extension, or
alteration addition, to a building or the change of use, or installation or
alteration, shall be one of the violations of this chapter.
   (B)   The city or the Board may enforce this chapter and require the removal
of any building, structure, or item located in or upon or under any lot, which
is in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
USES AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.020 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The lawful use of any building, structure, land, parking lot, or the
like existing on the effective date of this chapter may be continued, although
such use does not conform with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter, or said amendment, by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage,
height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements concerning the
structure, such structure may be continued, but subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a
way which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof
may be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
      (2)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to zoning regulations.
      (3)   If a non-conforming use has been abandoned, any future use of such
land, building, or structure shall be in conformity with the provisions of the
chapter regulating the use in the district in which such land, building, or
structures may be located; provided, however, that abandonment of any
particular agricultural or manufacturing process shall not be construed as
abandonment of agricultural or manufacturing use.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.021 PROHIBITED USES, PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   No use shall be permitted which is noxious or offensive in any
area by reason of odor, dust, smoke, gas, vibration, illumination, or noise, or
which constitutes a public hazard whether by fire, explosion, or offensive use,
or otherwise. In determining whether a proposed use is noxious, hazardous, or
offensive, the following standards shall apply. The propose operation shall
not:
         (a)   Constitute any nuisance whatsoever beyond the boundary of the
site on which the use is located by reason of dissemination of noxious, toxic,
or corrosive fumes, smoke, odor, or dust;
         (b)   Result in noise or vibration exceeding the average intensity of
noise or vibration occurring from other causes at the boundary line;
         (c)   Endanger surrounding areas by reason of fire or explosion;
         (d)   Produce objectionable heat, glare, or radiation beyond the
property line;
         (e)   Result in electrical disturbance in nearby residences, or
adversely affect the operation of equipment other than on the property on which
the disturbance is located;
         (f)   Discharge any untreated sewage, or any industrial waste into any
stream or the air or otherwise contribute to the pollution of the ground
surface, air, or underground waters;
         (g)   Create any other objectionable condition in an adjoining area
that would create a less attractive economic or business climate, or which
might endanger public health or safety or be detrimental to the proper use of
the surrounding area or tend to lower morals or property values;
         (h)   No building permit or city business license will be issued or
city water or sewer service connected by the city utility to or for any
building or structure which use falls under this division (A)(1) unless said
applicant appears before the Board for approval; and
         (i)   If a business is in operation in a B-1 Business District or if
approval be given for a type of business to operate within the B-1 Business
District and a person wants to change and operate a different type of business,
in this B-1 Business District, at the same location, then a request must be
made to the Board for approval.
      (2)   When requested by the Board, an applicant for a proposed use shall
demonstrate as a condition of approval that adequate provisions will be made to
reduce and minimize any objectionable elements to the degree necessary to
ensure that the proposed use will not be noxious, hazardous, or offensive as
defined above. If required, the applicant shall submit supplemental
information, plans, and impartial expert judgments, and the Board may require
the expert advice of official agencies or private consultants and such
reasonable tests as are deemed necessary, the costs of which shall be borne by
the applicant.
   (B)   In addition to the restrictions stated in division (A) above, the
following specific uses are prohibited:
      (1)   Slaughter houses and livestock markets;
      (2)   Junk yards, automobile wrecking yards, scrap metals, scrap paper,
and rag storage of raw fur pelts;
      (3)   Chemical plants, paper mills, tanneries, or storage, recycling
centers, and dumps;
      (4)   Stone crushing, concrete mixing, and asphalt plants;
      (5)   Any plant using or manufacturing nuclear energy; and
      (6)   Salvage yards, used parts yards, appliance graveyards, or the
operation of secondhand stores or outlets in a single-dwelling area.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.022 PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   In order to minimize traffic congestion and hazard, control street
access in the interest of public safety, and encourage the appropriate
development of street or highway frontage:
      (1)   Each separate use, shopping centers, malls, planned business
center, or similar grouping of buildings shall have not more than two access
ways to any one public street or highway for each 300 feet of frontage and,
where practicable, access to parking areas shall be provided by a common
service driveway or minor street in order to avoid direct access on a major
street or highway. No such access way shall be less than 20 feet or more than
30 feet in width, and the location of any access way or driveway to a public
street shall be in accordance with the regulations of the municipality. Such
access way shall comply with any more restrictive requirements of the State
Highway Department relative thereto.
      (2)   In the case of a required buffer area, no more than one entrance
and one exit shall be permitted from a lot to each street on which the lot
abuts, except that an additional entrance and exit through a buffer area may be
permitted when authorized as a special exception.
      (3)   Where practicable:
         (a)   All parking, loading, or service areas used by motor vehicles
shall be located entirely within the lot lines of the property;
         (b)   All access ways to a public street or highway shall be located
not less than 50 feet from the intersection of any street lines;
         (c)   All streets and access ways shall be designed in a manner
conductive to safe exit and entrance and shall conform to the highway
specifications and subdivision requirements of the municipality;
         (d)   An outdoor parking space or spaces are part of the open space on
the lot on which it is located, and parking spaces in front yards of a
residential use are permissible; provided, they are paved or graveled so not to
track mud out onto street;
         (e)   Adequate off-street loading and unloading space with proper
access from a street, highway, common service driveway, or alley shall be
provided on any lot on which a building requiring frequent service by delivery-
type trucks is located. All such areas for the loading and unloading of
delivery trucks and other vehicles and for the servicing of establishments or
shops by refuse collection, fuel, and other service vehicles, shall have
adequate and unobstructed access from a street, service driveway, or alley and
shall be so arranged that they may be used without blocking or otherwise
interfering with the use of automobile access ways, parking facilities, or
pedestrian ways; and
         (f)   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without
current license plates and current state inspection sticker shall not be parked
or stored on any residentially zoned property, whether it be zoned for single
or multiple dwellings other than in a completely screened space, garage, or
carport and kept from the other than in a completely screened space, garage, or
carport and kept from the public view. Automotive vehicles or trailers of any
kind or type without current license plates and a current state inspection
sticker shall be allowed in any area zoned as a Business District; provided,
they be located on an approved, licensed, sales lots, or on the property of a
business that is approved and licensed that paints or repairs said items.
   (B)   (1)   Off-street parking space, with proper access from a street,
alley, or driveway, shall be provided in all districts in the amounts indicated
below.
      (2)   Such parking space shall be provided on any lot on which a dwelling
is hereafter erected or converted, or, in the case of any other use, on or near
the lot on which any main building is hereafter erected or converted.
      (3)   All parking areas must be paved or graveled so to prevent any mud
being tracked out onto any street.
      (4)   Off-street parking requirements are as follows:
Usage Required Spaces
Usage                                  Required Spaces
Banks and offices                      1 space for each 300 square feet of area
Building or use other than specified   Provisions of a similar use shall apply
above
Dance halls/assembly halls without     1 space for 100 square feet used for
seats                                  assembly or dancing
Hotels, clubs with overnight           Same as for motel/tourist home
accommodations
                                       1 space for each 1,000 square feet of
Industrial establishment               area or 1 space per 2 employees on the
                                       largest shift, whichever is greater
Junior high school                     5 spaces per classroom
Medical/dental clinics                 1 space for each 200 square feet of area
Middle/junior schools                  3 spaces per classroom
Mobile home/house trailer              Same as for one-family dwelling
Motel/tourist home                     1 space per bedroom plus 1 space for
                                       each employee on duty
Multiple dwelling                      1 space for each bedroom
Nursing home/rest home                 1 space per 5 beds, plus one space for
                                       each employee on duty
One-family dwelling                    2 spaces for first bedroom and 1 per
                                       each additional bedroom
Retail stores, service or repair shops 1 space for each 400 square feet of area
Theater, church, recreational
establishment, or place of public or   1 space per 5 seats
private assembly
                                       1 space per 5,000 square feet area or 1
Warehouse/terminals                    space per 2 employees on largest shift,
                                       whichever is greater
 
      (3)   Two or more establishments may join in meeting the requirements of
this section; provided, that the total area for parking is the sum of the
individual requirements.
      (4)   All such parking areas existing on the effective date of this
chapter are exempt from the regulations of this chapter but shall not be
subsequently reduced in size to an amount less than required under this
chapter.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.023 LANDSCAPING.
   The land surrounding any permitted use shall be landscaped except for paved
area, such as walkways, access ways, play areas, and necessary parking and
service areas. All planting, fences, walls, or similar structures used for
screening shall be installed in such a manner as to maintain the intent of the
yard areas and shall be in harmony with the general architectural design of the
principal building or buildings on the lot; and shall not interfere with the
safe movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic by obstructing vision.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.024 FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   No dwelling, structure, or anything of any type shall be permitted close to
a stream or any body of water in any location within the city which could
obstruct the natural flow or passage of water which could result in damage to
any person or property.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.025 STRUCTURES TO HAVE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent to a
pubic street or improved private street, and all structures shall be so located
on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire
protection, and required off-street parking.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.026 PRIVATE STREET CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Private streets hereinafter constructed in the city shall meet the
following standards prior to being accepted by the Board and also before the
city or anyone may issue a building permit for any other type of construction
on said property.
   (B)   All private streets shall have:
      (1)   A minimum wearing surface 18 feet wide, not including shoulders;
      (2)   An aggregate base of crusher run stone at least six inches deep, to
include shoulders;
      (3)   A surface of an at least two-inch base bottom and one-inch wearing
course of asphalt, or a wearing surface of at least three inches of asphalt or
concrete construction of comparable strength with crown of at least one-fourth
inch per foot;
      (4)   A shoulder at least two feet wide on either side;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system;
      (6)   An overall right-of-way width at least 30 feet wide; and
      (7)   The approval of the Board and City Building Inspector concerning
each of the above.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.027 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Use of accessory buildings is permitted in all districts. Front and side
yard size limitations apply with the further provision that no accessory or
detached structured is permitted to be closer to a street than the principal
structure. A setback of five feet from the rear boundary is required. A
building permit is required for each accessory building.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.028 SITE PLANS.
   (A)   As a prerequisite to the issuance of a building permit, a site plan is
required for any structure in a D-2, B-1, B-2, or B-3 Zoned District for any
type of construction. A site plan shall also be required for any single-family
dwelling, in a D-1 Zoned District when the Board or City Building Inspector
determines there is a need for one.
   (B)   A site plan shall portray the existing site conditions, to include
terrain relief, existence of rock ledges, sink holes, structured, and trees six
inches in diameter and greater. It shall portray the planned end result,
including landscaping, screening, or buffering, disposition of excess materials
from the site, and measures to prevent any harm to other area properties.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.029 FENCING.
   (A)   Fencing and retaining or privacy wails in excess of four feet in
height require a special permit. If, in the judgment of the Board, the proposed
fence or wall will not be in consonance with proper neighborhood development,
the permit will be denied.
   (B)   Materials for permanent fences shall be durable; materials such as
snow fencing and poultry wire are not permitted.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.030 SATELLITE DISHES.
   A satellite dish shall be considered an accessory structure and, as such,
shall require a building permit and approval in the same manner as an accessory
building.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.031 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   A bed and breakfast establishment shall be located in a D-2 Zoned
District as defined in this chapter, and shall be further defined as a private
home which offers no more than two bedrooms per night for public accommodation.
   (B)   Homes offering more than two bedrooms per night may be located only in
a B-1 Zoned District.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
CLASSIFICATION OF DISTRICTS
§ 152.045 CLASSES OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the
following different types of districts, and designated as follows:
   (A)   D-1 Single Dwelling (residential) District;
   (B)   D-2 Multiple Dwelling District;
   (C)   B-1 Business District;
   (D)   B-2 Industrial District; and
   (E)   B-3 Recreational District.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.046 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OR MAPS.
   (A)   The municipality is hereby divided into districts or areas as shown on
the Official Zoning Map or Maps of the municipality which, together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map or Maps shall be identified by the signature
of the Mayor, attested by the Recorder, and bearing the seal of the
municipality under the following words:
 
“This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map or Maps referred to in
the Glenville Zoning Ordinance.”
 
      (1)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map
or Maps, or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set
forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Regardless of the existence of copies of the Official Zoning Map or
Maps which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
or Maps which shall be located in the office of the Recorder shall be the final
authority of the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings, and
other structures in the municipality.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.047 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following municipal limits shall
be construed as following municipal limits;
   (D)   (1)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (C) above shall be so construed.
      (2)   Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map
shall be determined by the scale of the map; and
   (E)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map or Maps, or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (D) above, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.048 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set by this chapter within each district or area shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure of land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
whether they be above, on ground, in ground, or underground, or constructed,
reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      (1)   To exceed the height;
      (2)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      (3)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; and
      (4)   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces than herein required; or in any other manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein.
      (2)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (D)   Pending a permanent zoning classification, all newly annexed territory
shall be classified as D-1, Single Dwelling (residential).
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 152.060 D-1 SINGLE DWELLING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The permitted uses in the D-1 Zoning District are as follows:
   (A)   Single dwelling, residential;
   (B)   Agriculture (when associated with an existing agricultural operation,
forest, and fallow);
   (C)   Schools and colleges;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Hospitals;
   (F)   Home occupations;
   (G)   Municipal water storage tanks;
   (H)   Cemeteries (when authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals);
   (I)   Radio and television transmission aerials, or relay towers (when
authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals); and
   (J)   Any use customary to divisions (A) through (I) above.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.061 D-2 MULTIPLE DWELLING DISTRICT.
   The permitted uses in the D-2 Zoning District are as follows:
   (A)   Multiple dwellings;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (C)   Apartment houses;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Schools and colleges;
   (F)   Duplex dwellings, and attached or row-type structures;
   (G)   Trailers or mobile home parks;
   (H)   Hospitals;
   (I)   Cemeteries (when authorized by Board);
   (J)   Housing for the elderly and handicapped and group homes;
   (K)   Exploratory drilling for gas and oil;
   (L)   Radio and television transmission aerials, or relay towers (when
authorized by Board of Zoning Appeals);
   (M)   Jails or prisons; and
   (N)   Any use customary to divisions (A) through (M) above.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.062 B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The permitted uses in the B-1 Zoning District is as follows:
   (A)   Motels;
   (B)   Filling stations;
   (C)   Restaurants;
   (D)   Offices;
   (E)   Stores and shops;
   (F)   Laundries;
   (G)   Hotels;
   (H)   Farm equipment;
   (I)   Motor vehicles or tractor sales or repair garages;
   (J)   Television stations;
   (K)   Schools and colleges;
   (L)   Tourist homes;
   (M)   Churches;
   (N)   Clubs and bars;
   (O)   Undertaking establishments;
   (P)   Banks, tax offices, and financial institutions;
   (Q)   Bus passenger offices;
   (R)   Theaters and assembly halls;
   (S)   Billiards or pool parlors;
   (T)   Newspaper plant and printing plant;
   (U)   Parcel offices and post offices;
   (V)   Building material sales and hardware;
   (W)   Government institutions;
   (X)   Taxi services;
   (Y)   Exploratory drilling for gas and oil;
   (Z)   Hospitals; and
   (AA)   Other businesses or agencies that would benefit the city.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.063 B-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The permitted uses in the B-2 Industrial Zoning District are as follows:
   (A)   Factories or other industrial plants;
   (B)   Municipal water treatment plants;
   (C)   Exploratory drilling for gas and oil; and
   (D)   Any use customary to divisions (A) through (C) above.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.064 B-3 RECREATIONAL DISTRICT.
   The permitted uses in the B-3 Zoning District are as follows:
   (A)   A public or private park or a recreation area operated by a public
agency or a private agency;
   (B)   Regulations shall be used, and are intended to control development so
as to prevent construction that would be detrimental to the character of this
area; and
   (C)   Any use customary to divisions (A) or (B) above.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 152.075 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The following schedules of regulations applying to the area of lots, the
height of buildings, the yards, and other open spaces to be provided therein,
indicated for the various districts established by this chapter, are hereby
adopted and declared to be part of this chapter.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.076 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR D-1.
   (A)   Minimum required.
Minimum Required Single Dwelling D-1 Zoning District
Minimum Required           Single Dwelling D-1 Zoning District
Each side yard             5 feet
Front yard                 12 feet
Lot area per dwelling unit 6,000 square feet
Lot depth                  100 feet
Lot width                  60 feet
Rear yard                  5 feet
Total lot area             6,000 square feet
 
   (B)   Maximum permitted.
 
Height of building (feet)    35 feet
Height of building (stories) 2.5 stories
 
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.077 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR D-2.
   (A)   Minimum required.
Minimum Required Multiple Dwelling
Minimum Required                                     Multiple Dwelling
Each side yard                                       5 feet
Front yard                                           12 feet
Lot area per dwelling unit                           No minimum required
Lot depth                                            No minimum required
Lot width                                            No minimum required
Maximum building height                              Board approval
Rear yard                                            5 feet
Side or rear yard if adjoining a D-1 Zoning District 20 feet
Total lot area                                       No minimum required
 
   (B)   Board requirements. The Board will determine the minimum on “Total lot
area,” Lot area per dwelling unit,” Lot width,” and “Lot depth,” in the table
in division (A) above, and the maximum on “Maximum building height” in the
table in division (A) above, based on building size and parking needs.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.078 AREA AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR B-1, B-2, B-3.
   (A)   The Board will determine any minimum and maximum area or height
requirements on each applicant based on building sizes and parking needs.
   (B)   Buildings should be set back 12 feet from any public street.
   (C)   Each side yard and the rear yard to be at least 20 feet from any
property in the D-1 Zoning District if it is adjoining said property.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.079 COMPARISON OF VARIANCE, SPECIAL EXCEPTION, SPOT ZONING.
   (A)   A variance is granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, whereas spot
zoning would originate or at least at some point go through the Planning
Commission for approval.
   (B)   A variance deviates from the present zoning while spot zoning is an
actual change of zoning. All changes in the zoning districts will be done by
the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Spot zoning is viewed as arbitrary or discriminatory and thwarts the
grand scheme of a zoning plan for the benefit of an individual landowner, while
a variance is permission to use a parcel of land in a manner which does not
meet the zoning requirements, but which use is necessary, due to the special
condition of the land, in order to avoid causing undue or unnecessary hardship
to the property owner.
   (D)   Spot zoning is done contrary to the public interest, white a variance
is intended to avoid individual hardship and still maintain the public
interest.
   (E)   Granting a variance is acceptable so long as undue hardship would
result without such a grant and so long as the public interest can still be
met, whereas spot zoning is not acceptable.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.080 SUMMARY OF CLASSIFICATIONS OF DIFFERENT ZONING DISTRICTS AS
DESIGNATED ON THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   All property in the Camden Flats Addition, Town Run Addition, and
property located along South Street shall be zoned D-1 Single Dwelling
Residential, with the exception that D-2 Multiple Dwelling and also B-
1 Business District zones shall exist on all property bordering on South Lewis
Street.
   (B)   All property in Brooklyn Addition shall be zoned D-1 Single Dwelling
Residential and also B-3 Recreational with the exception that D-2 Multiple
Dwelling and also B-1 Business District zones shall exist on all property
bordering on South Lewis Street. The Commission shall take into consideration
that, if funds become available, all or part of the area known as Brooklyn
Addition and zoned as D-1, and also B-3 should be made into and exclusively
zoned as B-3 Recreational. Should this happen, the Board shall not allow any
future construction of any new additional dwelling units in this area.
   (C)   All property located along East Main Street, West Main Street, and
Powell Street, shall be zoned D-2 Multiple Dwelling and also B-1 Business
District, with the exception that B-2 Industrial shall be zoned in the
Industrial Park Area and vicinity where the Kinney Shoe Building was located,
which is adjacent to the Stalnaker Cemetery, as indicated on the zoning map or
maps.
   (D)   All property bordering along Howard Street shall be zoned D-1 Single
Dwelling Residential with the exception where D-2 Multiple Dwelling, and also
B-1 Business District zones are indicated on the zoning map or maps.
   (E)   Property bordering along the west side of North Court Street from Main
Street to Church Street shall be zoned D-2 Multiple Dwelling and also B-
1 Business District.
   (F)   Property bordering along the east side of North Court Street from Main
Street to Howard Street shall be zoned D-2 Multiple Dwelling and also B-
1 Business District.
   (G)   Property bordering along the east side of North Court Street from
Howard Street to High Street, and all property bordering both sides of High
Street, and all property bordering Locust Court, shall be zoned D-1 Single
Dwelling Residential, and any future construction of any new additional
dwelling units may not be allowed in these areas due to future expansion needs
of city’s state college. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall ascertain any future
plans of expansion from the city’s state college prior to approving any new
units in these areas.
   (H)   All property located along Beall View Drive, Johnson Street, and
College Street shall be zoned D-1 Single Dwelling Residential with the
exception that D-2 Multiple Dwelling, and also B-1 Business District Zones
shall exist on all property bordering on East Main Street
   (I)   (1)   All property located in North View Addition, Bailey Addition,
and Pine Manor Addition, and all property located along Pine Street, Norris
Road, Sumac Court, Bailey Street, Center Street, Spring Street, Hale Street,
Linden Street, Mineral road, and also all property located along Walnut Street,
shall be zoned D-1 Single Dwelling Residential, with the exception of where
Walnut Street intersects with West Main Street.
      (2)   All property bordering West Main Street shall be zoned D-2 Multiple
Dwelling and also B-1 Business District.
   (J)   All property located along Elm Street shall be zoned D-1 Single
Dwelling Residential with the exception that B-2 Industrial shall be zoned in
the area surrounding the city’s property, and also the property which surrounds
the City Water Treatment Plant and Pump Station.
   (K)   All property located in Beverly Drive Addition, and all property
located along Glass Factory Road, Beverly Drive, and Maple Street shall be
zoned D-2 Multiple Dwelling, with the exception that D-2 Multiple Dwelling and
also B-1 Business District zones shall exist on all property bordering on North
Lewis Street.
   (L)   All property located along North Lewis Street and South Lewis Street
shall be zoned D-2 Multiple Dwelling and also B-1 Business District, with the
exception that B-2 Industrial shall also exist on the East Side of North Lewis
Street commencing near the intersection of State Route 5 East and U.S. Routes
33 and 119 north in the Hays City Addition area, and proceeding north to the
end of the city limits. The east side of North Lewis Street shall be triple
zoned as D-2, B-1, and B-2 in the said area.
   (M)   (1)   All property located along State Route 5 and commencing at the
intersection of State Route 5 and U.S. Routes 33 and 119 north in the Hays City
Addition and proceeding east along State Route 5 to the end of the city limits,
shall be zoned as D-2 Multiple Dwelling and B-1 Business District.
      (2)   Some areas shall also be zoned B-2 Industrial. The different zones
are indicated on the zoning map or maps.
   (N)   All property located in the River Street Addition and all property
located between the Little Kanawha River and River Street, and all property
located along River Street or any street that connects to it, or is in the
vicinity of it, shall be zoned D-2 Multiple Dwelling with the exception that D-
2 Multiple Dwelling and also B-1 District Zones shall exist on all property
bordering on South Lewis Street.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILER COURTS
§ 152.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle used, or so constructed as to permit its being
used, as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly licensable
as such, and constructed in such manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a
dwelling place for one or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer court designated for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
   PERMIT. A written permit by the Mayor permitting a mobile home or a trailer
court to be located within the city limits under this subchapter and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   TRAILER COURT. Any plot or ground upon which one or more mobile home(s)
occupied for dwelling purposes are located and which is of sufficient size to
accommodate a minimum of three mobile homes located in accordance with the
space regulations as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.096 PERMIT AND FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain, operate, or
alter any trailer court or use and occupy any mobile home within the limits of
the city unless and until he or she obtains a valid permit issued by the Mayor
in his or her name for the specific trailer court or mobile home, and unless
and until he or she registers said trailer court or mobile home with the Mayor
of the city and is issued a certificate of occupancy by said Mayor. The Mayor
is authorized to issue, suspend, or revoke permits in accordance with this
chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder. Said permit shall be secured
prior to location of any mobile home, and at any time the mobile home moves to
a new location, a new permit shall be required. The cost of each mobile home
permit and each trailer court shall be $10.50. No permit for a mobile home will
be issued unless it is to be located on a trailer court as herein described.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.097 LOCATION, SPACE, GENERAL LAYOUT.
   All trailer courts and mobile homes shall be located on a well-drained site,
shall be so located that their drainage will not endanger any water supply, and
shall be in conformity with a plan approved by the City Council. The City
Council shall promulgate regulations for trailer court location plan approval
which shall provide for adequate drainage, space, lighting, and other sanitary
facilities necessary to protect the public health and prevent nuisances. Single
units and all trailers on courts must be placed and constructed so as to comply
with the set lines herein established as follows: set back from curb line,
eight feet; set back from property line, three feet; set back from alley, six
feet; and set back from sidewalk, two feet. Mobile homes shall be set on
centers which are no less than 30 feet apart, and shall be aligned side by side
with the ends in an even and straight line. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
have the power and authority to grant variances concerning the requirements set
forth in this section in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.098 WATER SUPPLY AND PLUMBING.
   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall be provided
in each trailer court. Where a public supply of water of such quality is
available, connection shall be made thereto and its supply shall be used
exclusively. The development of an independent water supply to serve the
trailer court shall be made only after express approval has been granted by the
City Council. All plumbing in the trailer court shall comply with state and
local plumbing laws and regulations.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Water, see
Ch. 50
§ 152.099 SEWAGE DISPOSABLE.
   (A)   Trailer courts shall be served by a public sewer system, or by a
private disposal system which has the approval of the Health Officer.
   (B)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a satisfactory sewer
connection.
   (C)   All sewage-disposal apparatus, including appurtenances thereto, shall
be provided, maintained, and operated so as not to create a nuisance or health
hazard.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 51
§ 152.100 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in the court shall be so
managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident hazards, or air pollution. All refuse shall be stored in fly-
tight, watertight, and rodent-proof containers, which shall be provided in
sufficient number and capacity to prevent any refuse from over-flowing.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and refuse, see
Ch. 52
§ 152.101 ELECTRICITY.
   An electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts shall be provided for each
mobile home space. The installation shall comply with all state and local
electrical codes and ordinances. Such electrical outlets shall be weatherproof.
No power line shall be permitted to lie on the ground, and shall be suspended
high enough to avoid contact with any persons or conveyances that have access
to the property.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.102 FUEL.
   Liquefied petroleum gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at individual
mobile home spaces unless the containers are properly connected by copper or
other metallic tubing. Liquefied petroleum gas cylinders shall be securely
fastened in place, and adequately protected from the weather. No cylinder
containing liquefied petroleum gas shall be located in a mobile home, nor
within five feet of a door thereof.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.103 FIRE PROTECTION.
   The court area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the City
Fire Prevention Authority and State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.104 HOUSE TRAILERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HOUSE TRAILERS or MOBILE HOMES. Any vehicle or similar portable
structure, having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, or skirting, or any
vehicle or similar portable structure which originally had no foundation other
than wheels, hacks, or skirting and which has been mounted on block or other
foundations, or is otherwise situated and located within the corporate limits
of the city, and which is designated or constructed so as to permit occupancy
for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, co-partnership,
association, group, or corporation.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful hereafter for any person, company, or any
organization to place or locate any house trailer or mobile home in or on any
lot or area of the city without complying with each and every city ordinance
and also with the laws of the state.
      (2)   The location and occupancy of house trailers or mobile homes in the
city shall be in accordance with the provisions of any ordinance of the city,
now in existence or hereinafter enacted, regulating house trailer or mobile
home parks, and, in no event, shall any house trailer or mobile home be placed
on a lot contain less than 5,000 square feet for each house trailer or mobile
home not having available city sewerage and water facilities.
      (3)   One house trailer or mobile home may be placed upon any lot or
other area of land containing at least 5,000 square feet, however the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall have the power and authority to grant variances concerning
the requirements that the area or which the house trailer or mobile home be
placed on at leave 5,000 square feet this is in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter. Providing that at least 75% of the owners of each and every
residential house shall consent, having one vote for each and every house owned
that is used for dwellings purposes, that is situated within 300 feet measured
from the boundary line to the boundary line of the proposed lot or area of
land, in any direction, shall consent, in writing, prior to the location or
placement of said house trailer or mobile home, and providing that said written
consent is filed with the City Council, and providing a permit for the location
of said house trailer or mobile home is granted by the City Council.
      (4)   In order to aid the enforcement of this chapter, no building,
wiring, plumbing, or other required permits shall be hereafter granted for any
house trailer or mobile home which is located, or attempted to be located, on
any lot or other area in violation of the provisions of this chapter and no
connections to or with the sanitary sewerage system of the city or no
connections with the water system of the city for said house trailer or mobile
home shall be permitted.
      (5)   All trailer permits issued will have an expiration date of 90
calendar days from the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
section, December 4, 1995.
      (6)   The city may enforce the provisions of this section and require the
removal of any house trailer or mobile home located on any lot in violation of
this section.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.115 CREATION.
   The Municipal Planning Commission shall be created by this subchapter and
shall be established, and shall continue to operate on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.116 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Municipal Planning Commission shall consist of five individuals,
all of whom shall be freeholders and residents of the municipality, who shall
be qualified by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to the
development of the municipality, who shall include representatives of business,
industry, and labor, and who shall be nominated by the administrative authority
and confirmed by the governing body of the municipality.
   (B)   At least three-fifths of all of the members must have been residents
of the municipality for at least one year prior to appointment. One member of
the Commission shall also be a member of the governing body of the
municipality, and one member shall also be a member of the administrative
department of the municipality, the term of these two members to be coextensive
with the term of office to which they have been elected or appointed, unless
the governing body and administrative authority of the municipality at the
first regular meeting of the Commission each year designate others to serve as
the municipality’s representatives.
   (C)   The remaining members of the Commission first selected shall serve
respectively for terms of one year, two years, and three years, divided equally
or as nearly equal as possible between these terms. Thereafter, members shall
be selected for terms of three years each. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term only, in the same manner as original selections are made.
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the
performance of their official duties.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.117 ADVISORY MEMBERS.
   In the event a municipality which shall establish a Planning Commission is
located within or partly within a county which has or shall have a County
Planning Commission, a designated representative of the County Planning
Commission shall be an advisory member of the Municipal Planning Commission. A
designated representative of a Municipal Planning Commission of a municipality
located within or partly within a county which shall have a County Planning
Commission shall be an advisory member of the County Planning Commission. All
such advisory members shall have all the privileges of membership except the
right to vote.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.118 REGULAR, SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it
shall meet at least once in the months of January, April, July, and October.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Commission may be called by the
President or by at least two members upon written request to the Secretary.
      (2)   Whether called by the President or by two or more members, the
Secretary shall send to all of the members, at least two days in advance of a
special meeting, a written notice fixing the date, time, and place of the
meeting, but written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date,
time, and place of the special meeting have been fixed in a regular meeting, or
if all of the members are present at the special meeting.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.119 QUORUM.
   (A)   In order to conduct a Commission meeting, a quorum of the members must
be present. A majority of the members of the Commission shall be official
unless authorized by a majority of the members present at a regular or properly
called special meeting. The President shall be a voting member of the
Commission.
   (B)   The Secretary shall have no vote, but shall record the minutes of each
meeting and shall perform other duties as required or needed by the Commission.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.120 OFFICES; APPROPRIATION FOR EXPENSES.
   The municipality shall provide the Commission with suitable offices for
holding of meetings and the preservation of plans, maps, documents and
accounts, and shall be provided by appropriation a sum sufficient to defray the
reasonable expenses of the Commission.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.121 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Commission shall elect from
its members a President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have the
power and authority to act as President of the Commission during the absence or
disability of the President.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.122 APPOINTMENT, DUTIES, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall appoint and prescribe the duties and fix the
compensation of a Secretary, and such employees as are necessary for the
discharge of the duties and responsibilities of the Commission. All such
compensation, however, shall be in conformity to and in compliance with the
salaries and compensation theretofor fixed by the governing body of the
municipality.
   (B)   The Commission may make contracts for special or temporary services
and any professional counsel. The City Attorney shall render legal assistance
and service to the Commission.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.123 APPROPRIATIONS, EXPENDITURES; DISPOSITION OF GIFTS; PARTICIPATION IN
FEDERAL PLANNING ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
   (A)   After the governing body of the municipality has adopted this
subchapter creating a Planning Commission, the governing body shall appropriate
funds to carry out the duties of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the power and authority to expend, under
regular municipal procedure as provided by law, all sums appropriated to it for
the purposes and activities authorized under this subchapter.
   (C)   The municipality may accept gifts and donations for Commission
purposes. Any monies so accepted shall be deposited with the municipality in a
special non-reverting Commission fund to be available for expenditures by the
Commission for the purpose designated by the donor. The disbursing officer of
the municipality shall draw warrants against such special non-reverting fund
only upon vouchers signed by the president and secretary of the Commission.
   (D)   The Commission is empowered and authorized to spend funds made
available for the purposes of this subchapter, and to accept and use funds
provided for the purposes of this subchapter by the government of the United
States and any other agency or group whose interests are in harmony with such
purposes, in accordance with federal requirements and subject to such
conditions or limitations as the Constitution or law of the state may provide.
In this connection the Commission is hereby expressly authorized to participate
in the federal planning assistance programs as set forth in the Federal Housing
Act of 1954, being Pub. Law No. 83-560, as amended, and any subsequent acts.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.124 RECOMMENDATIONS, ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Commission may make and recommend for adoption to the governing
body of the municipality a comprehensive plan for the physical development of
the territory within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Commission may prepare, and is empowered and authorized to adopt,
a comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance for either the entire city, or for
any part or parts thereof which constitute an effective region or regions for
planning and zoning purposes without the necessity of adopting a plan and
ordinance for any other part. The Commission is empowered and authorized to
recommend, to the Municipal Council, a change of or an amendment to any zoning
ordinance already in effect before said Commission was created.
   (C)   In determining what constitutes an effective region or regions for
planning and zoning purposes, due consideration shall be given to such factors
as population density, health, general welfare, flooding, water, and sanitation
requirements, and future potential for residential, commercial, industrial, or
public use.
   (D)   The Commission is empowered with all the authority as stated in W. Va.
Code § 24-8, as amended or as may be amended.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 152.135 CREATION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be created by this subchapter and shall be
established, and shall continue to operate on or after the effective date of
this chapter.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.136 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members to be
appointed by the governing body of the municipality.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall be individuals who are freeholders and
residents of the municipality, and at least three-fifths of such members must
have been residents of the municipality for at least ten years preceding the
time of their appointment. No member of the Board shall be a member of the
Planning Commission, nor shall any member hold other elective or appointive
officer in the municipal or county government. Members of the Board shall serve
without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary
expenses actually incurred in the performance of their official duties.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall be appointed for the following terms: one
for a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two for a term of
three years. The terms shall expire on January 1 of the first, second, and
third year, respectively, following their appointment. Thereafter, as their
terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of three years.
   (D)   If a vacancy occurs, by resignation or otherwise, among the members of
the Board, the governing body of the municipality shall appoint a member for
the unexpired term.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.137 ELECTION OF OFFICERS, QUORUM, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   At its first meeting of each year, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and Vice Chairperson from its membership. The Vice Chairperson shall have the
power and authority to act as the Chairperson during the absence or disability
of the Chairperson.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. No
action of the Board shall be official, however, unless authorized by a majority
of all members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board may appoint and fix the compensation of a Secretary and such
employees as are necessary for the discharge of its duties, all in conformity
to and in compliance with the salaries and compensation theretofor fixed by the
municipality. The Chairperson shall be a voting member of the Board. The
Secretary shall have no vote, but shall record the minutes of each meeting and
shall perform other duties as required or needed by the Board.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.138 OFFICES, APPROPRIATION FOR EXPENSES.
   The governing body of the municipality shall provide the Board with suitable
offices for the holding of meetings and the preservation of plans, maps,
documents, and accounts, and shall provide by appropriation a sum sufficient to
defray the reasonable expenses of the Board.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.139 RULES AND REGULATIONS; PROCEDURES; MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall follow all rules and regulations spelled out in this
chapter or its amendments concerning the Board’s duties or the filing of
appeals, applications for variances, and exceptions, the giving of notice, and
the conduct of hearings as shall be necessary to carry out its duties under the
terms of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of all
official actions, and shall record the vote on all actions taken. All minutes
and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and shall be public
records.
   (C)   All decisions by the Board will be contained in an order which sets
forth findings of fact and conclusions of law. A written report, by the
Official Recorder of the Board, will be forwarded to City Council prior to
regular City Council meetings.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.140 POWERS, AUTHORITY, DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be as follows:
   (A)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by any person concerning this chapter;
   (B)   Permit and authorize exceptions to the district rules and regulations
only in the classes of cases or in particular situations, as specified in this
chapter;
   (C)   Hear and decide special terms of the chapter upon which the Board is
required to act under this chapter; and
   (D)   In any instance where the Board is required to consider a request for
a special exception or variance in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Board shall:
      (1)   Give full consideration to the size, scope, extent, and character
of the exception desired and assure itself that such request is consistent with
this chapter, and will promote the harmonious and orderly development of the
district in which it is located;
      (2)   Consider the suitability of the property for the use desired;
      (3)   Take into consideration the character and type of development in
the area surrounding the location for which the request is made and determine
that the proposed change or modification, as permitted, will constitute an
appropriate use in the area and will not substantially injure or detract from
the use of surrounding property or from the character of the neighborhood.
Consider, among other things: the zoning classification of the area affected;
the effect, if any, on other properties in the area; the number, extent, and
scope of non-conforming uses in the area; and the presence or the absence in
the neighborhood of conditions or uses which are the same or similar in
character to the conditions or use for which the applicant seeks approval;
      (4)   Consider the suitability of the proposed location of a use with
respect to traffic and streets in the area, and ensure that adequate access and
off-street parking arrangements are provided in order to protect major streets
from undue congestion and hazard. Guide the development of major street
frontage insofar as possible so as to limit the total number of access points,
and encourage the frontage of buildings on parallel marginal roads or on roads
perpendicular to the major street;
      (5)   Make certain that the proposed change is reasonable in terms of the
logical, efficient, and economical extension of public services and facilities,
such as public water, sewers, police protection, fire protection, and public
schools, and assure adequate arrangements for sanitation in specific instances;
      (6)   Impose such conditions, in addition to those required, as are
necessary to ensure that the general purpose and intent of this chapter is
complied with and that the use of the property adjacent to the area included in
the proposed change or modification is adequately safeguarded, which conditions
may relate to, but are not limited to, harmonious design of building,
aesthetics, planting, and its maintenance as a sight or sound screen,
landscaping, hours of operation, lighting, numbers of persons involved, allied
activities, ventilation, noise, sanitation, safety, smoke and fume control, and
the minimizing of noxious, offensive, or hazardous elements;
      (7)   Determine that the proposed change will serve the best interests of
the municipality, the convenience of the community, and the public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare;
      (8)   In the case of a requested variance, require the applicant to show
that enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in unnecessary
hardship. The written application for a variance shall demonstrate that:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
         (b)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter;
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         (d)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district.
   (E)   The Board is empowered with all the authority as stated in W. Va. Code
§ 24-8, as amended, or may be amended.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.141 HEARING OF APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   An appeal taken from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official or a board charged with the
enforcement of any ordinance or rule and regulation adopted pursuant to this
chapter or W. Va. Code Ch. 8A, as amended, or may be amended, shall be filed
with the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   The appeal shall specify the grounds thereof and shall be filed
within such time and in such form as may be prescribed by the Board by general
rule and regulation.
      (3)   The administrative official or board from whom or which the appeal
is taken shall, upon request of the Board, transmit to it all documents, plans,
and papers constituting the record of the action from which an appeal was
taken.
      (4)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an appeal.
Public notice of the hearing shall be given in the manner specified in W. Va.
Code Ch. 8A, Art. 8, as amended, or may be amended, and due notice shall be
given additionally to the interested parties.
      (5)   The Board may require the party taking the appeal to assume the
cost of public notice to interested parties. The Board’s Recorder shall take
the minutes of the hearing and shall take custody of all exhibits presented at
the hearing.
      (6)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent, or by an
attorney at law admitted to practice in the state.
   (B)   (1)   When an appeal has been taken and filed with the Board, all
proceedings and work on the premises in question shall be stayed unless the
official or person from whom or which the appeal was taken shall certify to the
Board, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, as stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   A person has the right to appeal a decision of the Board to the
County Circuit Court. The petition must be presented to the circuit court
within 30 days after the date of the decision of the Board if said person
wishes to appeal.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.142 ACTION BY CIRCUIT COURT OR JUDGE.
   (A)   (1)   The court or judge may consider and determine the sufficiency of
the allegations of illegality contained in the petition without further
pleadings, and may make a determination and render a judgment with reference to
the legality of the decision or order of the Board of Zoning Appeals on the
facts set out in the petition and return to the writ of certiorari.
      (2)   If it shall appear to the court or judge that testimony is
necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, the court or judge may take
evidence to supplement the evidence and facts disclosed by the petition and
return to the writ of certiorari, but no such review shall be by trial de novo.
In passing upon the legality of the decision or order of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the court or judge may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may
modify such decision or order.
   (B)   An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the state
from the final judgment of the court or judge reversing, affirming, or
modifying the decision or order of the Board of Zoning Appeals within the same
time, in the same manner, and upon the same terms, conditions, and limitations
as appeals in other civil cases.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.143 INJUNCTION.
   The Commission, the Board, or the city may seek an injunction in the circuit
court of the county to restrain a person or unit of government from violating
the provisions of this subchapter or of any ordinance or rule and regulation
adopted pursuant hereto. The Commission, the Board, or the city may also seek a
mandatory injunction in the circuit court directing a person or unit of
government to remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter or of any ordinance or rule and regulation adopted pursuant hereto.
If the Commission, the Board, or the city is successful in any such suit, the
respondent shall bear the cost of the action.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.144 REGULAR, SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Board shall fix the time for holding regular meetings and may hold
special meetings as needed. Special meetings of the Board may be called by the
Chairperson or by at least two members upon written request to the Secretary.
Whether called by the Chairperson or by two or more members, the Secretary
shall send to all of the members, at least two days in advance of a special
meeting, a written notice fixing the date, time, and place of the meeting, but
written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date, time, and
place of the special meeting have been fixed in a regular meeting, or if all of
the members are present at the special meeting.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.145 SPECIAL, TEMPORARY SERVICES.
   The Board may make contracts for special or temporary services and any
professional counsel. The City Attorney shall render legal assistance and
service to the Board.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
PERMITS AND CERTIFICATIONS
§ 152.160 REQUIREMENTS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   A permit shall be required prior to the erection, alteration,
repair, or dismantling of any building, structure, or portion thereof, prior to
any work being started, unless said work is of an emergency nature which would
cause imminent peril to life or property, or is just a minor repair that is in
full compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Other permits may be required by this chapter or other ordinances
now in effect or as may be required in the future. The City Council will set
any fee to be charged for any permit.
   (B)   It is the landowner’s or leaseholder’s responsibility to apply for a
permit, which responsibility he or she retains even when the actual preparation
of the application is undertaken by someone else. Application for permit shall
be made to the City Building Inspectors or someone designated by the city, on
such forms as may be furnished by the municipality. Each application shall
contain all information necessary to ascertain whether the proposed erection,
alteration, use, or change in use complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No improvement location permit or use permit shall be issued until the
officer designated by the municipality has certified that the property complies
with all the provisions of this chapter, and also that the Board has approved
the permit.
   (D)   Following the issuance of a permit for construction and use in
accordance with approved plans, no change, deviation, or alteration shall
thereafter be permitted except when authorized by the municipality upon written
application, which application shall be in the nature of an original
application for permit. If the lot or tract for which the development has been
approved is sold, the original conditions upon which approval was granted shall
be fulfilled by the new owners.
   (E)   If construction of an approved development is not undertaken within 12
months from the time that approval was last granted by the municipality, the
application for development must be reviewed, and renewal of approval must be
obtained.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 152.161 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   After a permit has been approved and all work has been completed, the
person or persons designated by the city or the Board will then inspect the
property for a final time and issued a signed statement titled a certificate of
occupancy, stating that all construction complies with all the provisions of
this chapter and all other ordinances of the city, and that the building,
structure, or construction, or parcel of land, may be used or occupied, or
lawfully be employed for a specified use.
   (B)   It shall not be lawful for anyone to use or occupy any structure,
building, or construction or parcel of land without a current approved
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or any person that
fails to comply with any provision, rule, or regulation adopted pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than three $300, for each
and every offense, and each day that he or she shall continue, such violation
shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable by like fine.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
152.095 through
152.103, or any provision of any regulation adopted by the City Council
pursuant to authority granted by §§
152.095 through
152.103 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine for not less than $25 nor
more than $100, or by imprisonment for not less than ten days nor more than 30
days, or both fine and imprisonment, and each day’s failure of compliance with
any such provision shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
152.104 shall be fined not more than $100, or be imprisoned for a term, not
exceeding 30 days, or both, and a further fine of $10 shall be imposed for
every 24-hour period such violation is suffered to remain.
(Ord. 900-01, passed 6-1-1999)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   CONSTRUCTION AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
III.   STREET NAMES
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
      
V.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             - -         Agreement extending the expiration date of a cable
                          television franchise with Cable Systems, Inc.
700-03        - -         Amending the authorization granted to Valley
                          Cablevision, Inc. for a cable franchise.
700-01        10-3-1961   Agreement with the Kanawha Cable Company for the
                          purpose of relaying television and radio signals.
700-02        1-4-1982    Granting to Monongahlea Power Company an electric
                          system franchise.
600-04        11-5-2001   Water termination agreement between the city and the
                          City Utility.
R. 700-04     5-2-2005    Approving the transfer of the cable franchise with
                          Rapid Communications, LLC.
R. 700-05     7-11-2016   Approval of the renewal of a cable television
                          franchise with Shenandoah Cable Television, LLC.
R. 700-06     5-3-2021    Renewal of a cable television franchise with
                          Shenandoah Cable Televisions, LLC.
                         
 
TABLE II: CONSTRUCTION AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
 
Ord./Res. Date       Description
No.       Passed
100-08    2-17-1978  Permitting the State Department of Highways to establish a
                     traffic control device in the city.
600-05    10-31-2001 Permitting Audra Stalnaker and Ronald Gene Stalnaker, Jr.,
                     to connect to the city’s sanitary sewer facilities.
                    
 
TABLE III: STREET NAMES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Changing the name of a portion of River Street which
100-14        5-5-1980    was once Holt Avenue to River Street; and changing
                          the name of a portion of Center Street to Allen
                          Street.
100-04        11-1-1999   Change the name of a portion of Linn Street to
                          Pioneer Way.
                         
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
500-06        10-1-1979   Annexation of an area commonly known as River View to
                          the city.   
                         
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Abandonment of a 15-foot alley between Walnut Street
100-16        5-28-1993   to the north, Center Street to the east, Turkey Run
                          to the south, and Bailey Street to the west within
                          the North View Addition within the city.
                          Abandonment of an alleyway in the North View Addition
100-03        7-11-1994   that joins Center Street and runs 82 feet parallel to
                          property owned by Lyle Kirby.
                          Abandonment of a 15-foot alley between U.S. Highway
100-23        8-3-2020    33-119 to the east and an undeveloped/unnamed alley,
                          and Turkey Run to the west within the North View
                          Addition within the city.
100-24        4-5-2021    Abandonment of a 15-foot alley known as Second Avenue
                          within the Cameden Flats Addition within the city.
                          Abandonment of a 15-foot alley situated between James
                          Street to the east, Sheridan Street to the west,
100-25        4-5-2021    Whiting Avenue to the south, and First Avenue to the
                          north within the Cameden Flats Addition within the
                          city.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
West Virginia Code Cite Code Section
West Virginia Code Cite Code Section
2-2-3                   10.03
2-2-5                   10.06
2-2-8                   10.04
2-2-9                   10.04
2-2-10                  10.01—
                        10.03
2-2-11                  10.04
3-1-1 et seq.           Ch. 130
3-2-3                   30.04
3-2-4                   30.04
3-2-5                   30.04
3-2-19                  30.04
3-17                    130.105
5-15-5                  74.08
Ch. 6A                  130.095;
                        130.999
7-1-3ss                 130.098
7-1-3U                  151.016
Ch. 8                   30.03
8-2-5a                  Ch. 130
8-5-13                  30.02;
                        30.03
8-10-1                  30.16
8-10-2                  30.16
8-11-1                  74.99
8-11-4                  Ch. 150
8-12-1 through 8-12-15  31.03
8-12-2                  70.03
8-12-5                  70.03
8-12-5(3)               Ch. 71
8-12-5, subsec. 4       70.03
8-12-5(13)              Ch. 111
8-12-5(15)              Ch. 111
8-12-5(16)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(17)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(18)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(19)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(20)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(21)              Ch. 72
8-12-5(23)              Ch. 111
8-12-5(26)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(27)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(31)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(44)              Ch. 111;
                        Ch. 130
8-12-5(57)              Ch. 130
8-12-5(b)               130.077
8-12-13                 Ch. 150
8-13-10                 Ch. 130
8-14-3                  30.18
8-34-1                  30.15
Ch. 8A                  152.141
Ch. 8A, Art. 8          152.141
Ch. 11                  130.092
11-3-3A                 151.001;
                        151.092
11-12-86                130.199
Art. 11-16              Ch. 130;
                        130.999
11-16-1 et seq.         130.090;
                        130.093
11-16-3                 72.035;
                        130.090
11-16-5a                130.104
11-16-18                130.096;
                        130.999
11-16-19                130.097;
                        130.999
14-2A-4                 72.021
15-2-17 et seq.         Ch. 130
16-9-3                  Ch. 130
16-9A-2                 130.124;
                        130.999
16-9A-3                 130.124;
                        130.999
16-9A-7                 130.124
16-9A-11                130.125;
                        130.999
Ch. 17                  72.256;
                        72.258
17-10-7                 Ch. 130
Art. 17-24              70.21
17-24A-1                73.07
17-24A-2                73.07
17-24A-5                Ch. 70
                        70.03;
Ch. 17A                 72.250;
                        72.253
17A-1-1 et seq.         74.29
17A-3-1                 72.250
17A-3-13                72.251
17A-3-14                73.06
17A-3-15                72.252
17A-8-4                 72.227
17A-8-6                 72.227
17A-9-2                 72.253
17A-9-3                 72.254
                        70.01;
17A-10-1                72.252;
                        130.125
17A-10-1 et seq.        72.172
17A-11-1                72.999
Ch. 17B                 70.03
17B-1-1 et seq.         74.29
17B-2-1                 72.255
17B-2-1a                72.256
17B-2-2                 72.256
17B-2-3a                72.236
17B-2-7b                72.255
17B-2-9                 72.257
17B-4-1                 72.258
17B-4-3                 72.259
17B-4-3(b)              72.999
17B-4-3(d)              72.999
17B-4-4                 72.260
                        Ch. 70;
                        70.03;
Ch. 17C                 Ch. 72;
                        72.172;
                        72.301
17C-1-2                 70.01
17C-1-3                 70.01
17C-1-4                 70.01
17C-1-5                 70.01
17C-1-5a                70.01
17C-1-6                 70.01
17C-1-7                 70.01
17C-1-8                 70.01
17C-1-12                70.01
17C-1-13                70.01
17C-1-15                70.01
17C-1-16                70.01
17C-1-17                70.01
17C-1-21                70.01
17C-1-24                70.01
17C-1-25                70.01
17C-1-26                70.01
17C-1-29                70.01
17C-1-30                70.01
17C-1-31                70.01
17C-1-32                70.01
17C-1-33                70.01
17C-1-35                70.01
17C-1-36                70.01
17C-1-37                70.01
17C-1-38                70.01
17C-1-39                70.01
17C-1-40                70.01
17C-1-41                70.01
17C-1-42                70.01
17C-1-43                70.01
17C-1-44                70.01
17C-1-45                70.01
17C-1-46                70.01
17C-1-47                70.01
17C-1-48                70.01
17C-1-49                70.01
17C-1-50                70.01
17C-1-51                70.01
17C-1-52                70.01
17C-1-53                70.01
17C-1-54                70.01
17C-1-55                70.01
17C-1-60                70.01
17C-1-62                70.01
17C-1-64                70.01
17C-1-65                70.01
17C-1-66                70.01
17C-1-69                72.182
17C-1-70                70.01
17C-2-1                 70.16
17C-2-3(c)              70.17
17C-2-4                 70.18
17C-2-5                 70.19
17C-2-6                 70.20
17C-2-7                 Ch. 70
                        Ch. 70;
17C-2-8                 70.03;
                        Ch. 72
17C-2-8(a)(1)           Ch. 73
17C-2-8(a)(2)           Ch. 71
17C-2-8(a)(3)           Ch. 71
17C-2-8(a)(6)           Ch. 72
17C-2-8(a)(7)           Ch. 72
17C-2-8(a)(8)           Ch. 74
17C-2-8(a)(9)           Ch. 72
17C-2-8(b)              Ch. 71
17C-2-8(c)              Ch. 71
17C-2-8(c)(4)           Ch. 72
17C-2-9                 70.22
17C-3-1                 71.22
17C-3-2                 Ch. 71
17C-3-3                 Ch. 71
17C-3-4                 71.15
17C-3-4a                71.16
17C-3-4b                71.22
17C-3-5                 71.17
17C-3-6                 71.18
17C-3-7                 71.19
17C-3-8                 71.20
17C-3-9                 71.21
17C-4-1                 72.001;
                        72.316
17C-4-2                 72.002;
                        72.316
17C-4-3                 72.003
17C-4-4                 72.004
17C-4-5                 72.005
17C-4-6                 72.006
17C-4-8                 72.007
17C-4-12                72.008
17C-4-15                Ch. 72
17C-5                   72.021
17C-5-2                 72.020;
                        72.999
                        72.020;
17C-5-2b                72.021;
                        72.999
17C-5-3                 72.022
17C-5-7a                72.021
17C-5-11(a)             Ch. 72
17C-5A                  Ch. 72
17C-5A-1 et seq.        72.021
17C-5A-3                72.020
                        72.020;
17C-5A-3a               72.021;
                        72.999
17C-5D-2                72.035
17C-5D-3                72.036;
                        72.999
17C-5D-4                72.037
Art. 17C-6              72.050
17C-6-1                 72.050;
                        72.999
17C-6-3                 Ch. 72
17C-6-3(a)              Ch. 72
17C-6-3a(a)             72.051
17C-6-4                 72.052
17C-6-4 et seq.         Ch. 72
17C-6-5                 72.052
17C-6-7                 Ch. 72;
                        72.054
17C-6-8                 72.999
17C-6-8(a)              72.053
                        72.055;
17C-6-11                72.172;
                        72.999
17C-7-1                 72.070
17C-7-2                 72.071
17C-7-3                 72.072
17C-7-4                 72.073
17C-7-5                 72.074
17C-7-6                 72.075
17C-7-7                 72.076
17C-7-8(b)              72.077
17C-7-8(c)              72.077
17C-7-9                 72.078
17C-7-10                72.079
17C-7-11                72.080
17C-7-12                72.081
17C-8-1                 72.095
17C-8-2                 72.096
17C-8-3                 72.097
17C-8-4                 72.098
17C-8-5                 72.099
17C-8-6                 72.100
17C-8-7                 72.101
17C-8-8                 72.102
17C-8-9                 72.103
17C-8-10                72.104
17C-9-1                 72.115
17C-9-2                 72.116
17C-9-3                 72.117
17C-9-4                 72.118
17C-9-5                 72.119
17C-9-6                 72.999
17C-10-1(a)             74.01
17C-10-2                74.02
17C-10-3                74.03
17C-10-4                74.04
17C-10-5                74.05
17C-10-6                74.06
17C-10-7                74.99
17C-10-8                74.07
17C-10A-1               74.09
17C-10A-2               74.09;
                        74.99
17C-11-1                74.20
17C-11-2                74.21
17C-11-3                74.22
17C-11-4                74.23
17C-11-5                74.24
17C-11-6                74.25
17C-11-7                74.26
17C-11-8                74.29
17C-11A-1 et seq.       74.29
17C-11A-3               74.28
17C-11A-4               74.28
17C-11A-5               74.28
17C-11A-6               74.28
17C-11A-7               74.99
17C-12-1                72.135
17C-12-2                72.136
17C-12-3                72.137;
                        72.999
17C-12-4                72.138
17C-12-5                72.139
17C-12-6                72.140
17C-12-7                72.141
17C-12-7a               72.142
17C-12-8                72.141;
                        72.142
17C-13-1                73.01
17C-13-2                73.02
17C-13-3                73.03
17C-13-4                Ch. 73
17C-13-6                73.06;
                        73.99
17C-14-2                72.215
17C-14-4                72.216
17C-14-5                72.217
17C-14-6                72.218
17C-14-9                72.219
17C-14-9a               72.220;
                        72.999
17C-14-10               72.221
17C-14-11               71.01
17C-14-12               72.172
17C-14-13               73.04
17C-14-14               72.235
17C-14-15               72.236;
                        72.999
Art. 17C-15             70.21
17C-15-1                72.155
17C-15-2                72.156
17C-15-3                72.157
17C-15-4                72.158
17C-15-5                72.159
17C-15-6                72.999
17C-15-13               Ch. 72
17C-15-14               72.160
17C-15-15               72.161
17C-15-16               72.162
17C-15-17               72.163
17C-15-18               72.164
17C-15-19               72.165
17C-15-20               72.166
17C-15-21               72.167
17C-15-22               72.168
17C-15-23               72.169
17C-15-24               72.170
17C-15-25               72.171
17C-15-26               70.01;
                        72.172
17C-15-26(e)            72.142
17C-15-27               72.172
17C-15-31               72.173
17C-15-32               72.174
17C-15-33               72.175
17C-15-34               72.176
17C-15-35               72.177
17C-15-36               72.178
17C-15-36a              72.187;
                        72.999
17C-15-37               72.179
17C-15-39               Ch. 72
17C-15-41               72.180
17C-15-42               72.181
17C-15-44               72.182
17C-15-45               72.183
17C-15-46               72.184;
                        72.999
17C-15-48               72.186
17C-15-49               72.188;
                        72.999
Art. 17C-16             72.185;
                        72.186
17C-16-9                72.185
Art. 17C-17             72.200;
                        72.202
17C-17-2                72.202
17C-17-2(b)             Ch. 72
17C-17-3                72.201
17C-17-4                72.201
17C-17-5                72.201
17C-17-6                72.203
17C-17-7                72.204
17C-17-11b              72.201
17C-18-1                70.99
Art. 17C-19             72.037
17C-19-3                72.037;
                        72.280
Art. 17C-23             72.222
Art. 17-24              70.21
17C-24-1                72.315
17C-24-2                72.316
17D-1-1 et seq.         74.29
Art. 17D-2A             72.234
17D-2A-3                72.003
17D-2A-9                72.999
17D-4-2                 72.003
Art. 17E-1              72.275
17E-1-1 et seq.         72.236
17E-1-4                 72.275;
                        72.276
17E-1-5                 72.277
17E-1-6                 72.277
17E-1-7                 72.278
17E-1-8                 72.279
17E-1-9(d)              72.275
17E-1-14                72.280;
                        72.999
17E-1-14(a)             72.281
17E-1-15                72.280
17E-1-25                72.999
Art. 17F-1              Ch. 72
17F-1-1                 72.296
17F-1-2                 72.297
17F-1-4                 72.298
17F-1-5                 72.299
17F-1-6                 72.300
17F-1-7                 72.301
17F-1-8                 72.999
17F-1-9                 72.295
18-2A-9                 Ch. 130
18A-5-1                 130.141
18A-5-1a                130.141;
                        130.190
19-7-8                  Ch. 130
Art. 19-9               Ch. 130
19-16A-7                151.016
Art. 19-20              Ch. 130
Art. 19-20A             Ch. 130
19-23-9                 Ch. 130
Art. 20-2               Ch. 130
21-9-2                  151.092
21-9-4                  151.075
21-9-9                  151.092
21A-6-3                 130.124
22-4-1 et seq.          Ch. 111
24-8                    152.124;
                        152.140
25-1-11c                130.192
Ch. 27                  130.192
Art. 27-5               130.095;
                        130.999
27-11-17                130.095
29-3-5b                 150.015
29-22A-1 et seq.        130.098
29-22C-1 et seq.        130.098
29-25-1 et seq.         130.098
Ch. 29A                 130.096
30-6-4                  72.222
Ch. 30, Art. 13         151.016
                        73.06;
30-29-1                 130.004;
                        130.142;
                        130.192
30-29-4                 72.021
31-2-13                 Ch. 130
Art. 31-2A              130.175
31-2A-6                 130.999
38-11-5                 130.164
48-27-502               130.190
49-1-206                Ch. 130;
                        130.102
49-4-701                130.999
49-4-701 et seq.        130.194
49-5-103                130.102
49-5-106                Ch. 130
49-7-7 et seq.          Ch. 130
50-3-2                  72.021
50-3-2a                 130.999
55-7A-2                 130.122
Art. 55-9               Ch. 130
59-2-1(c)               74.99
59-3-1                  10.09
                        130.092;
Ch. 60                  130.093;
                        130.095
60-1-1 et seq.          130.090;
                        130.095
60-1-3a                 130.104
                        72.035;
60-1-5                  130.090;
                        130.144
60-1-5a                 130.100
60-3-22                 130.093
60-3-22a                130.094;
                        130.999
60-3A-24                130.102;
                        130.999
60-3A-25a               130.100
60-4-3b                 130.103
Art. 60-5               Ch. 130
Art. 60-6               130.092
60-6-2                  130.103
60-6-5                  130.091
60-6-7                  130.092
60-6-8                  130.093
60-6-9                  130.095;
                        130.999
60-6-18                 Ch. 130
Art. 60-7               130.096
                        130.093;
60-7-1 et seq.          130.096;
                        130.098
60-7-12                 130.098;
                        130.999
60-7-12a                130.099;
                        130.999
Art. 60-8               130.100
                        130.093;
60-8-1 et seq.          130.095;
                        130.096;
                        130.103
60-8-3                  130.090
60-8-6                  130.100
60-8-20                 130.100
60-8-20a                130.101;
                        130.999
Art. 60-8A              130.103
60-8A-1                 130.103
60-8A-2                 130.103
                        Ch. 130;
Ch. 60A                 130.093;
                        130.143;
                        130.215
60A-1-101               72.020
60A-1-101(e)            130.020;
                        130.190
60A-1-101(m)            130.190
60A-2-204               130.999
60A-2-205               130.999
60A-2-206               130.999
60A-4-401               130.143
Ch. 61                  Ch. 130
61-1-9                  130.004;
                        130.999
Art. 61-2               Ch. 130
61-2-9                  130.140
61-2-9(a)               130.192
61-2-9(b)               130.192
61-2-10(b)              130.142;
                        130.999
61-2-15                 130.141
61-2-26                 130.123
61-2-28                 130.192
Art. 61-3               Ch. 130
61-3-13                 130.157
61-3-18                 130.158
61-3-30                 130.159
61-3-40                 130.164
61-3-43                 130.176
61-3-44                 130.160
61-3-45                 130.160
61-3-53                 130.163;
                        130.999
61-3A-1                 130.144
61-3A-2                 130.144
61-3A-3                 130.999
61-3A-4                 130.144
61-3A-5                 130.144;
                        130.999
61-3A-6                 130.144
61-3B-1                 130.156
61-3B-2                 130.999
61-3B-3                 130.999
Art. 61-5               Ch. 130
61-5-14                 130.001;
                        130.999
61-5-17                 130.002;
                        130.999
Art. 61-5A              Ch. 130
Art. 61-6               Ch. 130
61-6-1b                 130.035;
                        130.999
61-6-14a                130.036;
                        130.999
61-6-17                 130.003;
                        130.999
61-6-20                 130.007
61-6-22                 130.037
Art. 61-7               Ch. 130
61-7-1                  130.999
61-7-2                  130.190
61-7-3                  130.191;
                        130.999
61-7-4                  130.192
61-7-6                  130.192
61-7-6a                 130.192
61-7-7                  130.193;
                        130.999
61-7-8                  130.194
61-7-9                  130.195
61-7-10                 130.196;
                        130.999
61-7-11                 130.197
61-7-11a                130.190
61-7A-5                 130.193
61-8-5                  130.070
61-8-6                  130.071
61-8-7                  130.072
61-8-8                  130.073
61-8-9                  130.075
61-8-11                 130.144
61-8-16                 130.074
61-8-19                 130.020;
                        130.999
61-8-24                 130.121
61-8-29                 130.039;
                        130.999
61-8D-10                130.120
Art. 61-9               Ch. 130
Art. 61-10              Ch. 130
61-10-1                 130.050
61-10-2                 130.051
61-10-3                 130.052
61-10-4                 130.053
61-10-5                 130.054
61-10-6                 130.055
61-10-9                 130.056
61-10-10                130.057
61-10-11                130.058
61-10-15                Ch. 130
61-11-8                 130.005
61-11A-4                130.999
61-11A-5                130.120
62-1-5(a)               130.006
62-5-2                  72.021
62-5-7                  72.021
62-5-10                 72.021
62-11A-1 et seq.        72.020
Art. 62-11B             72.999
62-11B-1 et seq.        72.020
62-11B-5                72.020
62-12-14                130.192
62-12-26                130.039
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
700-04   5-2-2005    TSO Table I
100-05A  9-13-2005   Ch. 76, Schd. I
-        5-7-2007    30.04
700-05   7-11-2016   TSO Table I
700-06   5-3-2021    TSO Table I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table I
200-13   - -         91.01;
                     91.99
200-14   - -         90.21;
                     90.99
200-15   - -         90.08;
                     90.99
200-16   - -         52.01;
                     52.99
300-02   - -         150.046;
                     150.081
                     150.045;
300-03   - -         150.046—
                     150.049;
                     150.999
500-02   - -         30.01
500-04   - -         30.35
500-08   - -         30.04
500-09   - -         30.04
                     30.15—
500-10   - -         30.23;
                     30.99
600-02   - -         51.01;
                     51.99
700-03   - -         TSO Table I
700-01   10-3-1961   TSO Table I
                     52.02;
                     52.03;
                     52.04;
200-05   11-1-1976   90.01—
                     90.07;
                     90.20;
                     90.99
                     111.01—
300-05   3-7-1977    111.29;
                     111.99
100-10   5-2-1977    150.001;
                     150.999
100-9    8-9-1977    Ch. 75, Schd. I
100-15   10-3-1977   Ch. 75, Schd. II
100-08   2-17-1978   TSO Table II
600-01   2-17-1978   31.01—
                     31.04
500-06   10-1-1979   TSO Table IV
100-13   3-3-1980    33.01
100-14   5-5-1980    TSO Table III
200-04   7-7-1980    91.17;
                     91.99
                     32.04;
400-08   6-17-1981   91.16;
                     91.99
100-01   11-2-1981   70.03
500-01   11-2-1981   30.02
700-02   1-4-1982    TSO Table I
500-12   3-5-1982    10.09
500-07   2-7-1983    30.03
400-03   10-3-1983   32.01
300-06   - -1986     150.075—
                     150.082
200-03   5-5-1986    130.105
400-05   9-11-1989   32.02
                     150.060;
300-01   4-2-1990    150.061;
                     150.062;
                     150.999
400-01   3-7-1991    32.20;
                     32.99
100-07   5-3-1993    Ch. 76, Schd. I
100-16   5-28-1993   TSO Table V
100-06   3-7-1994    Ch. 76, Schd. I
100-03   7-11-1994   TSO Table V
                     152.001—
                     152.006;
                     152.020—
                     152.031;
                     152.045—
                     152.048;
                     152.060—
                     152.064;
                     152.075—
900-01   6-1-1999    152.080;
                     152.095—
                     152.104;
                     152.115—
                     152.124;
                     152.135—
                     152.145;
                     152.160;
                     152.161;
                     152.999
100-05   9-20-1999   Ch. 76, Schd. I
100-04   11-1-1999   TSO Table III
500-05   12-6-1999   30.36
600-05   10-31-2001  TSO Table II
600-04   11-5-2001   TSO Table I
100-21   - -2002     70.02
200-18   6-3-2002    34.01;
                     34.99
                     112.01;
200-19   12-1-2003   112.02;
                     112.03;
                     112.99
                     110.01—
                     110.10;
400-06   - -2008     110.25;
                     110.26;
                     114.01—
                     114.05
                     151.001—
                     151.004;
                     151.015;
                     151.016;
                     151.030—
                     151.034;
                     151.045—
                     151.048;
300-04A  9-5-2008    151.060—
                     151.063;
                     151.075;
                     151.090—
                     151.099;
                     151.110;
                     151.111;
                     151.125;
                     151.126;
                     151.999
200-05   11-3-2008   91.15
-        2-9-2009    90.09;
                     90.99
                     50.01;
600-07   10-1-2012   50.15—
                     50.25
                     130.215—
200-21   4-22-2013   130.218;
                     130.999
200-07   4-7-2014    30.01
200-22   4-7-2014    113.01;
                     113.02
100-22   11-3-2014   Ch. 75, Schd. III
2208     11-20-2014  130.198
-        5-4-2015    70.03
100-23   8-3-2020    TSO Table V
100-24   4-5-2021    TSO Table V
100-25   4-5-2021    TSO Table V
400-09   11-4-2024   32.03
                     92.01—
200-23   5-5-2025    92.05;
                     92.99
                     150.095—
300-13   5-5-2025    150.107;
                     150.999
                    
 
