KINGWOOD, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. passed 7-8-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
 
Mayor    Jean Manuel Guillot
Recorder William Robertson
Council  Joshua Fields
        Karen Kurilko
        Michael Lipscomb
        James Shaffer
        Tina Turner
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.04   Catchlines and headings of portions of code
   
10.05   Severability of parts of this code, and of codes and other regulations
adopted by reference
   
10.06   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinance
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances contained in this title and the following titles, chapters
and sections shall constitute and be designated the “Code of the City of
Kingwood, West Virginia”, and may be so cited. Such ordinances may also be
cited as the “Kingwood City Code”, “city code” or “code of ordinances”.
(1991 Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of City Council to adopt a comprehensive code of ordinances, see
W. Va. Code § 8-11-4(b)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all other ordinances and resolutions
of the City Council, the following definitions and rules of construction shall
be observed, unless it shall be expressly provided otherwise by any section,
ordinance or resolution, unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
City Council or unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AUTHORITY OF OFFICERS. Whenever authority is conferred on or an act is
required to be performed by a city officer, such authority may be exercised or
performed, at the instance of such officer, by a deputy, agent or subordinate,
unless such authority cannot lawfully be deputed.
   CITY. The City of Kingwood, West Virginia.
   CITY CODE; THIS CODE. The Code of the City of Kingwood, West Virginia, as
amended and currently in effect.
    CITY COUNCIL; THE COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Kingwood, West
Virginia.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME; REASONABLE TIME. The time within which an act is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; or,
if the last day be Sunday or a holiday, it shall also be excluded; but this
provision shall not be deemed to change any rule of law applicable to bills of
exchange or negotiable instruments; provided, that if time is expressed in
hours, the whole of any Sunday or holiday shall be excluded, unless the clear
intent of the Council is to the contrary. In all cases where provision is made
for an act to be done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall
be construed to mean only such time as may be necessary, under the
circumstances then and there existing, for the prompt performance of such act
or the giving of such notice.
   COUNTY. The County of Preston, West Virginia.
   GENDER. A word importing the masculine gender only may be construed to
include the feminine and neuter as well as the masculine.
   GENERAL RULE. All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the City
Council may be fully carried out. Words and phrases shall be taken in their
usual sense, but technical words having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such JOINT AUTHORITY to a majority of
such persons or officers, and not to any lesser number.
   MONTH and YEAR. The word MONTH shall mean a calendar month; the word YEAR
shall mean a calendar year; the word YEAR alone shall be equivalent to the
expression YEAR OF OUR LORD.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Kingwood, West Virginia.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may be applied to several
persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word importing the
plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well as to several.
   OATH; SWORN. A solemn affirmation shall be the equivalent to an oath in all
cases, unless otherwise expressly provided, and the word OATH shall be deemed
to include an affirmation and the word SWEAR or SWORN to be complied with if
the person referred to makes solemn affirmation.
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the City of Kingwood, unless
the content clearly indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. As applied to any property, any part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the
whole or of a part of such property.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, society, club or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual, unless restricted
within the context.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Goods, chattels, real and personal, money, credits,
investments and the evidence thereof.
   PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. When used as applicable to real property, shall include land and
buildings.
   PROPERTY. Real, personal and mixed property.
   REAL PROPERTY; REAL ESTATE; LAND; LANDS. Lands, buildings, tenements and
hereditaments and all rights thereto and interests therein, except chattel
interests.
   SHALL; MAY. The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line or, where there is
no curb, the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians. If there is no public area between the
lateral lines of the roadway and the abutting property line, then that area
immediately abutting the street line shall be considered SIDEWALK AREA.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. A mark made by a signer or subscriber who
cannot write, such signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by
a witness who shall write his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s
name.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia.
   STATE CODE REFERENCES. References to the West Virginia Code shall be to the
Official Code of West Virginia, 1931, as amended and currently in effect.
   STREET. Alley, avenue, boulevard, highway, road, lane, viaduct, bridge and
approaches thereto, and all other public thoroughfares in the city, and the
entire width thereof between abutting property lines; also a sidewalk or
footpath, unless the contrary is expressed or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the intent of the City Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, any person holding a
written or oral lease to or who occupies the whole or part of such building or
land, either alone or with others.
    TENSES. The present tense includes the past and future tenses; the future
includes the present.
   WRITING. Includes any form of recorded message comprehensible by ordinary
visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required or
authorized by this code or other ordinance or resolution of the city, it shall
be made in writing in the English language, unless it is expressly provided
otherwise.
Statutory reference:
   Acts by agent or deputy, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-5
   Computation of time, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-3
   Construction of statutes, see W. Va. Code §§ 2-2-10, 2-2-10(a), 2-2-10(b),
2-2-10(d)
   Corresponding state law relating to construction of statutes, see W. Va.
Code § 2-2-10(c)
   Definition of “personal property” relating to construction of statutes, see
W. Va. Code § 2-2-10(q)
   Definition of “property” relating to the construction of statutes, see W.
Va. Code § 2-2-10(r)
   Definition of “real property” relating to the construction of statutes, see
W. Va. Code § 2-2-10(p)
   Definition of “writing” relating to the construction of statutes, see W. Va.
Code § 2-2-10(c)
   Definitions of “person” relating to the construction of statutes, see W. Va.
Code § 2-2-10(I)
   Definitions of words and phrases in the Municipal Code of West Virginia, see
W. Va. Code §§ 8-1-1, 8-1-2
   Month; year; fiscal year, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-4
   Oath; sworn, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-7
§ 10.03 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, insofar as they are substantially the
same as those of ordinances in effect immediately preceding the effective date
of this code and included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof
and not as new enactments.
§ 10.04 CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS OF PORTIONS OF CODE.
   The chapter, subchapter, division and section headings of this code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents thereof and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles thereof, nor as any part thereof; nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such chapters,
subchapters, divisions or sections, including the headings or catchlines, are
amended or reenacted.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of statutes, see W. Va. Code §§ 2-2-10(z), 2-2-12
§ 10.05 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF THIS CODE, AND OF CODES AND OTHER REGULATIONS
ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, divisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
and of each of the technical codes and other regulations herein adopted by
reference are severable, and that if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph,
division or section of this code or of any such technical code or other
regulations shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment
or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, divisions and sections thereof, since they would have been enacted
by the City Council without the incorporation therein of any such
unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, division or
section.
§ 10.06 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance or its expiration, by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
    (B)   When any ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed,
the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that
effect.
Statutory reference:
   Effect of repeal or expiration of statutes, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-8
   Repeal of an act repealing a statute, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-9
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Wherever in this code or in any ordinance or resolution of the City Council
or in any rule, regulation, notice or order promulgated by any officer or
agency of the city under authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is
prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor or the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty is provided
for the violation thereof, the violation of any such provision of this code or
of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice or order shall be
punished by a reasonable fine, not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment for a term
not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day any
violation of this code or of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation,
notice or order shall constitute, except where otherwise provided, a separate
offense.
Statutory reference:
   State law as to penalties authorized to be imposed, subject to certain
limitations, for violations of municipal ordinances and means available to
municipalities for the recovery thereof, see W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-5(55)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
35.   POLICE COURT
      
36.   FEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Salaries of elected officials
   
30.02   Policy
§ 30.01 SALARIES OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The elected officials of the city shall receive a fixed salary or
compensation for services rendered as an elected official of the city, and said
fixed salary or compensation shall be applicable to the various elected
officials of the city as follows.
      (1)   The Mayor shall receive the amount of $3,500 per year, being paid
the amount of $116.67, less required payroll deductions, per regular or special
Council meeting that is attended by the Mayor for a maximum number of 30
meetings per year. Should the Mayor attend additional Council meeting in excess
of 30 meetings per year as held by the city, then the Mayor shall not be paid
any wages for the said additional Council meeting in excess of 30 per year.
      (2)   The Recorder shall receive a salary not to exceed the amount of
$2,500 per year, being paid the amount of $83.33, less required payroll
deductions, per regular or special Council meeting that is attended by the
Recorder for a maximum number of 30 meetings per year. Should the Recorder
attend additional Council meetings in excess of 30 meeting per year a held by
the city, then the Recorder shall not be paid any wages for the said additional
Council meetings in excess of 30 per year,
      (3)   Each of the Council members of the city shall receive a salary not
to exceed the amount of $1,500 per year, being paid the amount of $50, less
required payroll deductions, per regular or special Council meeting that is
attended by the Council member for a maximum number of 30 meetings per year as
held by the city, then the Council member shall not be paid any wages for the
said additional Council meetings in excess of 30 per year.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNCIL MEETING. The regularly scheduled second and fourth Tuesday of
each month Council meeting and any and all special Council meetings as called
for by the City Council at which time the Council attends, a quorum is
established and at which meeting Council may vote on matters affecting the
City. COUNCIL MEETING does not include work meetings at which votes may not be
taken or any other special meeting which is not called as a regular or special
Council meeting.
      COUNCIL MEETING THAT IS ATTENDED BY. Such regularly or specially
scheduled Council meetings at which a quorum is established, Council may vote
on issues affecting the city and at which said meeting the Council member,
including the Mayor and Recorder, must be present at the time that quorum is
established or said Council member, including the Mayor and Recorder, shall not
be paid for attendance at said meeting. It is further provided that should any
member of Council, including the Mayor and Recorder, not be present at the time
that quorum is established, said member of Council, including the Mayor and
Recorder, shall not be paid for attendance at said meeting, regardless if said
member does appear and attend said Council meeting at some period of time
following the establishment of quorum.
      QUORUM IS ESTABLISHED. As being at such time as the first order of
business of the Council meeting is considered. Said first order of business
shall be in accordance with the agenda for each meeting as previously posted.
(Ord. 27, passed 3-24-2015; Ord. 27, passed 8-27-2019)
§ 30.02 POLICY.
   (A)   Statutory meeting location. All official meetings of the duly elected
Council of the city are open to the public and will be held in Kingwood City
Hall, located at 313 Tunnelton Street, Kingwood West Virginia 26537.
   (B)   Meeting notice. An official notice of all regular meetings of the
Council of the city will be posted on the front door of Kingwood City Hall
three business days prior to meeting day. For special meetings, two business
days' notice is required.
   (C)   Voting members. All duly elected officials of the city, Mayor,
Recorder and five Council members shall be voting members. The Mayor shall cast
his or her vote only after all other members of Council present have voted.
   (D)   Quorum. Four duly elected officials, a quorum, of the Council of the
city, must be present in order to conduct official business. It is permissible
for one or more official(s) to attend the meeting using a telecommunication
device, such as a cell phone, laptop or by video conferencing, however at least
one voting member of the Council shall be present at the statutory location for
each and every official Council meeting. If the Mayor is attending an official
meeting using a telecommunication device, the Recorder, if attending at the
statutory location, will conduct the meeting. If both the Mayor and the
Recorder are attending the meeting using a telecommunication device, then the
most senior member of the Council who is attending at the statutory location
will conduct the meeting.
   (E)   Presiding officers. The Mayor is the presiding officer for all
meetings of the Council of the city. In the absence of the Mayor, the Recorder
will be the presiding officer. If the Mayor and Recorder are both absent, then
the most senior member of the Council shall act as the presiding officer for
such meeting.
   (F)   Minutes. It is the responsibility of the Recorder to take the official
minutes of all meetings of the Council of the city. In the absence of the
Recorder, the City Clerk will be responsible for taking the official meeting
minutes.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2025)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
City Clerk
   
31.01   Generally
   
31.02   Qualifications
   
31.03   Responsibilities
CITY CLERK
§ 31.01 GENERALLY.
   The City Clerk is the connecting link between the City Council on the one
hand and the various boards of the city, city employees and general public on
the other hand.
   (A)   As City Treasurer, responsible for all funds of the city;
   (B)   Responsible to City Council;
   (C)   Responsible for maintaining all city records; and
   (E)   Must maintain a good relationship with the general public without
bending or allowing special favors due to friendship or for any other reason.
The same applies to City Council, the Mayor and Recorder, in so far as the
relationship is concerned.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   High school graduate essential, college training preferred, along with
some business experience;
   (B)   Must develop a working knowledge of state and federal regulations,
which are different from general business in most cases; and
   (C)   Working knowledge of accounting and data processing needed.
§ 31.03 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Issues building permits, checks applications for conformity to
Building and Zoning Codes. Take permit applications to Council;
   (B)   Sell cemetery lots and graves in Maplewood Cemetery, write deeds for
same, enter on cemetery maps, keep records for cemetery, including files;
   (C)   Keep Police Judge docket, collect all fines, send out letters to all
persons not paying fines or parking tickets, cause warrants to be issued when
required by ordinance. Send abstracts of judgement to Safety Responsibility
Division (Charleston);
   (D)   Issue and OK all purchase orders for the city;
   (E)   Issue all city licenses. Send out application forms for all city
licenses on June 1;
   (F)   Attend all Council meetings. Prepare agenda for Mayor. Prepare bills
and building permit applications for Council. Transcribe minutes into minute
book. Send out copies to Council;
   (G)   Prepare payroll checks, Deposit all moneys. Post all receipts and
disbursements. Write all checks for bills. Keeps all journals and ledgers
according to state requirements. Is Treasurer for the city;
   (H)   Send in all reports, such as Social Security, worker’s compensation,
employment security, federal and state income taxes, state sales tax, state
public retirement system, State Treasurer. Some are bi-monthly, some are
monthly, some are quarterly;
   (I)   Prepare annual budget and submit to Council. After Council approves,
submit State Tax Commissioner for approval. Make budget adjustments throughout
the fiscal year;
   (J)   Handles all city elections. Secures supplies, clerks and
commissioners, receives all filings and fees, handles absentee votes, all
according to the State Election Code. Prepare report of Canvassing Board;
   (K)   Handle annual city’s Halloween party;
   (L)   Treasurer of Park and Recreation Department by ordinance; and
   (M)   Secretary for Board of Zoning Appeals. Sets up meetings, takes minutes
and transcribes same.
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Water Commissioners
   
32.01   Management and control in Board
   
32.02   Appointment of Board
   
32.03   Eligibility and compensation of Board
   
32.04   Officers and attendance of Board
   
32.05   Operation of waterworks and revenue therefrom
   
32.06   Employees of Board
   
32.07   In compliance with state law
   
32.08   Bond
Sanitary Board
   
32.20   Creation of Sanitary Board
   
32.21   Composition, Chairperson, appointment of members
   
32.22   Organizational meetings, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer,
official bonds
   
32.23   Compensation and expenses of Board members
   
32.24   Powers, duties and limitations
   
32.25   Duty of Board to restore property damaged by its activities
   
32.26   Publication of financial statement
   
32.27   Procedure for disbursement of funds
   
32.28   Bonding of employees who handle money
Planning Commission
   
32.40   Generally
   
32.41   Membership of Planning Commission
   
32.42   Meetings
   
32.43   Officers
   
32.44   Governing body’s duties
   
32.45   Powers and duties of Planning Commission
Board of Parks and Recreation
   
32.60   Establishment and organization
   
32.61   Powers
   
32.62   Financing
BOARD OF WATER COMMISSIONERS
§ 32.01 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL IN BOARD.
   The management and control of the municipal waterworks system of the city
shall be carried on by a Board of Water Commissioners created, appointed and to
perform the functions as hereinafter prescribed.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT OF BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   Said Board of Water Commissioners shall consist of seven
Commissioners who shall be of outstanding reputation for ability and integrity.
They shall be appointed without regard to their political affiliations, but
with regard to their business and professional experience or standing as
citizens in the community. Two of said Commissioners appointed must reside in
the area previously served by the County Public Service District No. 2.
      (2)   (a)   The initial Commissioners and their respective terms of
office shall be: the five Water Commissioners presently serving on the Board of
Water Commissioners and said Commissioners shall complete their appointed terms
as previously appointed.
         (b)   The two new Commissioners to be appointed upon passage of this
subchapter shall be appointed as follows: one Commissioner shall be appointed
for a two-year term; and one Commissioner shall be appointed for a three-year
term. Said terms shall be considered as having started on the date of
appointment.
   (B)   The adoption of this section is made contingent upon the approval of
the County Commission and the State Public Service Commission for the
acquisition of the County Public Service District No. 2 by the city. This
section will not be in effect upon final approval of the acquisition has been
given by the State Public Service Commission.
   (C)   Upon the adoption of this section and the receipt of the final
approval of the State Public Service Commission, the Council of the city shall
appoint the two new Commissioners for the terms previously noted of two years
and three years. Following said appointments to the Board of Water
Commissioners, all future appointments shall be made according to this section
providing for the management, control and operation of the municipal waterworks
system of the city.
   (D)   In the event of any vacancy on the Board, due to death, retirement,
inability to serve or other given reason with the exception of the expiration
of a term of said Commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled by the person
selected by the majority vote of the Board of Water Commissioners serving at
the time the vacancy occurs. Upon selection of a person to fill said vacancy,
the Board of Water Commissioners shall notify the Council of the city of said
appointment. In the event of a vacancy on the Board due to the expiration of
the term of a Commissioner, such vacancy shall be filled by a person appointed
for a three-year term by the Council of the city. The Board of Water
Commissioners may submit recommendations of names of people to be appointed to
the Board of Water Commissioners. However, the final appointment shall rest
upon the Council of the city. In regard to the appointment of the two
Commissioners residing in the area previously served by the County Public
Service District No. 2, the County Commission may submit recommendations to the
Board of Water Commissioners the names of people to be appointed to the Board
for the Board’s consideration prior to the Board submitting its recommendations
for appointment to the City Council.
   (E)   From and after the date of the issuance of the waterworks revenue
bonds of said city, the provisions of this subchapter shall govern and control
in the administration and operation of the municipal waterworks system of said
city. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the Commissioner
so vacating and all other appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
majority of said Board, at any meeting, shall constitute a quorum. The Board
shall adopt rules and by-laws to be reduced to writing for the time and place
of its meetings, the conduct thereof, and the operation of said waterworks.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.03 ELIGIBILITY AND COMPENSATION OF BOARD.
   (A)   Five of the appointed Commissioners shall, as long as they remain
Commissioners, be residents and taxpayers of the city. Two of the appointed
Commissioners shall, as long as they remain Commissioners, reside in the area
previously served by County Public Service District No. 2. Any Commissioner
appointed to said Board of Commissioners shall be eligible for reappointment
upon the expiration of his or her term.
   (B)   Each Commissioner, with the exception of the person serving as
Chairperson of the Board, while so acting as Commissioner, shall receive
compensation for his or her services at the rate of $125 per meeting attended
as may be fixed from time to time by the City Council or by designation of time
by the Board, with a maximum compensation to any one Commissioner of $1,750 per
annum, and each appointed Commissioner shall be removable for cause by the
recorded vote of a majority of the members of the Council of said city after
hearing duly held. The person serving as Chairperson of the Board, while so
acting as Chairperson of the Board, shall receive compensation for his or her
services at the rate of $200 per meeting attended as may be fixed from time to
time by the Council of said city or by designation of time by the Board, with a
maximum compensation to the Chairperson of the Board of $2,800 per annum.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.04 OFFICERS AND ATTENDANCE OF BOARD.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Water Commissioners and annually
thereafter upon the anniversary date of the first meeting, or at some other
date agreed upon, said Board of Water Commissioners shall organize by the
designation of one of the Commissioners to act as Chairperson and another to
act as Secretary. The Chairperson so designated shall preside at all meetings
when present and shall call special meetings, as need be, of the Board.
Provision shall be made for holding at least one regular meeting per month, of
which special notice need not be given. The Secretary shall keep a written
record of the proceedings of the Board, which shall be available for inspection
as are all other municipal records. Any appointed Commissioner failing to
attend four successive regular meetings without cause acceptable and approved
by the Board of Commissioners, shall be thereby automatically removed from
office and such vacancy filled as hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.05 OPERATION OF WATERWORKS AND REVENUE THEREFROM.
   The said Board of Water Commissioners shall have full and complete
supervision, management and control of the municipal waterworks system of said
city, including the administration, maintenance, operation and extension
thereof. Any contracts for construction or purchase involving the sum of
$10,000 or more, and all contracts for fuel or electricity extending over a
period of 12 months or more shall be authorized and approved by the Council of
said city upon the recommendation of the Board of Water Commissioners. All
bills for water and water service shall be collected and accounted for by said
Board of Water Commissioners in the manner and form required by law and all
collections shall be deposited with the Treasurer of said city waterworks or
deposited as he or she may direct. The municipal waterworks system shall be
operated on a fiscal year basis, commencing on July 1 of each year and ending
on June 30 of each year. At least 30 days prior to the deadline for budget
preparation as set by the state of each year, the Board of Water Commissioners
shall cause to be prepared and adopted a detailed budget of the estimated
amounts of money to be collected, and the amounts and purposes for which
expenditures are to be made in connection with the operation of the waterworks
system for the next ensuing fiscal year, a signed copy of which budget shall be
filed with the City Clerk. No contracts affecting the waterworks system shall
be entered into, or any waterworks revenue bonds issued other than those
referred to in the preamble to the ordinances adopted in this subchapter, for
extensions, improvements or replacements without the recommendation and
approval of said Board of Water Commissioners. All disbursements for account of
such waterworks system shall be ordered paid out of the money collected and the
original revenues obtained from the sale of said bonds only upon approval of
said Board of Water Commissioners.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.06 EMPLOYEES OF BOARD.
   The Board of Water Commissioners shall have the power to employ, fix the
compensation of and discharge a Superintendent, and through such
Superintendent, to direct, employ, fix the compensation of, and discharge all
employees of the Waterworks Department. The Superintendent shall perform such
duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board of Water Commissioners.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.07 IN COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to be done outside the scope of W. Va.
Code Ch. 8, Art. 12, §§ 1 to 14 relating to waterworks of municipal
corporations, and said chapter, articles and sections of said code shall be
complied with in the operation of the city waterworks.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
§ 32.08 BOND.
   All members of said Board of Water Commissioners, all employees of said city
waterworks, including the Superintendent thereof shall be bonded with corporate
surety in an amount at least equal to the amount of money coming into the hands
of said Board of Water Commissioners during each fiscal year; all employees
shall be covered and be placed under the scope of the worker’s compensation
laws of the state or other adequate means taken to save the city harmless by
reason of any act or thing done by the said Board of Water Commissioners or any
agent or employee thereof. The amount of such bonds herein provided for shall
be set from time to time by the Council of said City of Kingwood.
(Ord. 17, passed 8-14-2018)
SANITARY BOARD
§ 32.20 CREATION OF SANITARY BOARD.
   The Council of the city does hereby create and establish a Sanitary Board,
with all powers and duties as provided in and pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch. 16,
Art. 13.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.21 COMPOSITION, CHAIRPERSON, APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Sanitary Board shall be composed of the Mayor of the city, and two
persons appointed by the Council, one of whom, during the construction period
of any sewer facilities, must be a registered professional engineer. The
engineer member of the Board need not be a resident of said municipality. After
the construction of the system has been completed, the engineer may be
succeeded by a person not an engineer. Said appointees shall originally be
appointed for terms of two and three years respectively, and upon the
expiration of each such term and each succeeding term, appointment of a
successor shall be made in like manner for a term of three years. Vacancies
shall be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment. No officer or employee of the city, whether holding a paid or
unpaid office, shall be eligible to appointment on said Sanitary Board until at
least one year after the expiration of the term of his or her public office.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.22 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS, VICE CHAIRPERSON, SECRETARY, TREASURER,
OFFICIAL BONDS.
   As soon as may be practicable following the appointment of a new member of
the Sanitary Board, the Board shall hold an organizational meeting and choose a
Vice Chairperson from among its members, and a Secretary and Treasurer, who may
be one person and need not be a Board member, and such officers shall hold
office at the will of the Board. No bond shall be required of the Board members
as such, but the Treasurer, whether a member of the Board or not, shall give
bond in the penalty of $2,000 for the proper application of all money received
by him or her as Treasurer of the Board, and otherwise conditioned according to
law.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.23 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The members of the Sanitary Board as such shall be paid the amount of $50
per meeting attended by said Board member with a maximum number of meetings for
which payment may be made within a year being at the total of 16 meetings or a
yearly salary not to exceed the amount of $800. In addition, all members of the
Board shall be reimbursed from sewage works funds for all necessary expenses
properly incurred in the discharge of their duties, but there shall be no
liability upon the city for any salary or expenses so incurred.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.24 POWERS, DUTIES AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The Sanitary Board shall have the supervision and control of the
custody, administration, operation and maintenance of any and all works for the
collection, treatment and disposal of sewage, which are now owned or may
hereafter be acquired by the city.
   (B)   The Sanitary Board shall have power to take all steps and proceedings
and to make and enter into all contracts or agreements necessary or incidental
to the performance of its duties and the execution of the powers granted to
such Board under W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13 as the same now exists and may
hereafter be amended; but the powers of the Sanitary Board shall be subject to
all restrictions and limitations contained in said W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13
as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
   (C)   The Sanitary Board may employ engineers, architects, inspectors,
superintendents, a manager, collectors, attorneys and such other personnel as
in its judgement may be necessary in the execution of its powers and duties,
and may fix their compensation, all of whom shall do such work as the Board
shall direct. All such compensation and all expenses, incurred in carrying out
the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13 shall be paid solely and only
from funds provided under the authority or power given it so as to bind the
Board or the city beyond the extent to which money shall have been or may be
provided under the authority of W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13. No contract or
agreement with any contractor or contractors for labor or material exceeding in
amount the sum of $5,000 or the maximum as provided by law shall be made
without advertising for bids, which bids shall be publicly opened and award
made to the best bidder, with power in the Board to reject any and all bids.
   (D)   The construction, acquisition, improvement, equipment, custody,
operation and maintenance of any such works for the collection, treatment or
disposal of sewage and the collection of revenues therefrom for the service
rendered thereby shall be under the supervision and control of the Sanitary
Board.
   (E)   After the construction, installation and completion of such works, the
Sanitary Board shall operate, manage and control the same and may order and
complete any extensions, betterments and improvement of and to the works that
the Board may deem expedient if funds therefor be available or made available
as provided by law, and shall establish rules and regulations for the use and
operation of the works and of other sewers and drains connected therewith so
far as they may affect the operation of such works, and to do all things
necessary or expedient for the successful operation thereof, and the Board
shall have in addition hereto any and all powers granted to it by said W. Va.
Code Ch. 16, Art. 13, or which may be granted to it by amendments to said W.
Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13, hereafter made, subject to any and all restrictions
and limitations therein contained.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.25 DUTY OF BOARD TO RESTORE PROPERTY DAMAGED BY ITS ACTIVITIES.
   All public ways or public works damaged or destroyed by the Sanitary Board
in carrying out its authority under W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13 shall be
restored or repaired by the Board and placed in their original condition, as
nearly as practicable, if requested to do so by the proper authorities, out of
the funds provided pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 13.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.26 PUBLICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
   The Sanitary Board shall prepare a financial statement and cause it to be
published as a Class I legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of
W. Va. Code Ch. 59, Art. 3, and the publication area for such publication shall
be the sanitary district. Such statement shall contain an itemized account of
the receipts and expenditures of the Board during the previous fiscal year,
showing the source from which all money was derived, and the name of the person
to whom an order was issued, together with the amount of such order, and why
such order was issued, arranging the same under distinct heads, and including
all money received and expended from the sale of bonds, and also a specific
statement of the debts of such Board, showing the purpose for which any debt
was contracted, the amount of money in all funds at the end of the preceding
year, and the amount of uncollected service charges. Such statement shall be
prepared and published by the Board as soon as practicable after the close of
the fiscal year. The statement shall be sworn to by the Chairperson and
Secretary and Treasurer of the Board.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.27 PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   All funds under the supervision of the Sanitary Board shall be disbursed, as
disbursements are required, by check drawn upon the proper fund or account, and
such checks shall be properly signed by the authorized officer or agent of the
Board. All such disbursements shall be approved by the Board.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 32.28 BONDING OF EMPLOYEES WHO HANDLE MONEY.
   The Sanitary Board may from time to time, in its discretion, require any of
its employees to furnish a good and suitable indemnity bond, with a recognized
and reputable surety, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of their duties
as such, and to deliver up and pay over all money as provided by law. The Board
shall require all persons who collect of otherwise handle funds of the Board to
furnish a good and proper bond, with a recognized and reputable surety,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties and for the proper
handling and care of said funds in their hands. Such bond shall be in an amount
equal to the sum of money which might at any one time be in the hands of such
person or persons, as may be determined by the Board.
(Ord. 34, passed 7-26-2016)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.40 GENERALLY.
   The city does hereby create a Planning Commission for the city to promote
the orderly development of its jurisdiction. Said Commission shall serve in an
advisory capacity to the governing body of the city and shall have certain
regulatory powers over land planning. The Planning Commission, along with the
governing body of this city, shall have the authority to carry out the
objectives and overall purposes of the W. Va. Code §§ 8A-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 32.41 MEMBERSHIP OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall have seven members.
      (2)   Each member must be:
         (a)   A resident of the municipality; and
         (b)   Qualified by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to
the development of the municipality.
   (B)   At least three-fifths of all of the members must have been residents
of the municipality for at least three years prior to nomination or appointment
and confirmation.
   (C)   The members of the Planning Commission must fairly represent different
areas of interest, knowledge and expertise, including, but not limited to,
business, industry, labor, government and other relevant disciplines. Two
members must be a member of the municipal governing body (being one in the same
as administrative department) or a designee. One appointment represents the
governing body and the other represents the administrative department. The term
of membership for these two members is the same as their term of office.
   (D)   Should there be members of the community that may at times appear
before the Planning Commission and do have experience and expertise that would
be advantageous to the Commission, such act shall not be a conflict of interest
in the appointment to the Commission. If such person is appointed, this member
must recuse himself or herself from any vote, discussion, participation or
other activity regarding the conflicting issue.
   (E)   The remaining members of the Planning Commission first selected shall
serve respectively for terms of one year, two years and three years, divided
equally or as nearly equally as possible between these terms. Thereafter,
members shall serve three-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term and made in the same manner as original selections were made.
   (F)   The members of the Planning Commission shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses
actually incurred in the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Nominations for the Planning Commission membership shall be made and
confirmed by the governing body.
   (H)   Should any member of the Commission fail to attend meetings, neglect
his or her duties to the Commission or commit malfeasance of his or her
appointment, the Commission shall report such actions to the governing body.
Thereafter, the governing body shall provide written notice of such alleged
actions to the effected member and advise that such actions may result in the
member’s removal from the Commission. Should the member object, he or she shall
have an opportunity to address the governing body on the issues prior to any
final decision being made by the governing body.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 32.42 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall meet at least quarterly and may meet
more frequently at the request of the President or by two or more members.
   (B)   Notice for a special meeting must be in writing, include the date,
time and place of the special meeting, and be sent to all members at least two
days prior to the special meeting.
   (C)   Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date, time
and place of the special meeting were set in a regular meeting.
   (D)   The Planning Commission must have quorum to conduct a meeting. A
majority of the members of a Planning Commission is a quorum. No action of a
Planning Commission is official unless authorized by a majority of the members
present at a regular or properly called special meeting.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 32.43 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting each year, a Planning Commission shall elect
from its members a President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have
the power and authority to act as President of the Planning Commission during
the absence or disability of the President.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 32.44 GOVERNING BODY’S DUTIES.
   (A)   The city governing body shall provide the Planning Commission with:
      (1)   Suitable location for holding of meetings and the preservation of
plans, maps documents and accounts; and
      (2)   Appropriate money to defray the reasonable expenses of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission is authorized to accept gifts, funds and
donations which will be deposited with the appropriate governing body in a
special nonreverting Planning Commission Fund to be available for expenditures
by the Planning Commission for the purpose designated by the donor.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 32.45 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission has the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision for the administration of the affairs of
the Commission;
   (B)   Prescribe rules and regulations pertaining to administration,
investigations and hearings; provided, that the rules and regulations are
adopted by the governing body;
   (C)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the Commission;
   (D)   With consent from the governing body, hire employees necessary to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Planning Commission, provided
that the governing body sets the salaries;
   (E)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all Planning Commission
proceedings;
   (F)   Record and fill all bonds and contract;
   (G)   Take responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers and
documents of the Planning Commission;
   (H)   Make recommendations to the governing body concerning planning;
   (I)   Make an annual report to the governing body concerning the operation
of the Planning Commission and the status of planning within its jurisdiction;
   (J)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports, ordinances and other material
relating to the activities authorized under this subchapter;
   (K)   Invoke any legal, equitable or special remedy for the enforcement of
the provisions of this subchapter, rule and regulation or any action taken
thereunder;
   (L)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the governing body;
   (M)   Delegate limited powers to a Committee composed of one or more members
of the Commission; and
   (N)   Contract for special or temporary services and professional counsel
with the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 32.60 ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Establishment of Board. There is hereby established a Board of Parks
and Recreation Commissioners for the city for the purpose of establishing,
constructing, improving, extending, developing, maintaining and operating a
city public park and recreation system. Its name shall be the "Board of Parks
and Recreation Commissioners of the City of Kingwood". For convenience of
reference herein, the Board of Parks and Recreation Commissioners of the city
will be hereinafter referred to as the "Board".
   (B)   Board a public corporate body; perpetual existence; and seal. The
Board created by this subchapter shall be a public corporate body, with
perpetual existence and a common seal.
   (C)   Members.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of five members, a majority of whom shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except as hereinafter
provided. Each member of the Board must be a resident and freeholder of the
city.
      (2)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Council. There
shall be at least one member of Council appointed to the Board at all times and
a second Council member may be appointed if Council so desires. Council
membership on the Board will be the same as their term of office on Council,
with reappointment after each election of new Council. The term of other
appointed members shall be for three years, and until their successors have
been duly appointed and qualified; provided, that in the initial appointment of
the members of the Board, Council shall appoint the three persons, who are not
members of Council, to serve, one for a term of six years, one for a term of
four years, and one for a term of two years. The date upon which the terms of
such Board members shall begin shall be July 1, 2025.
   (D)   Disqualification of member.
      (1)   When any member of the Board, during his term of office, shall
cease to be a resident and freeholder of the city, he shall thereby be
disqualified as a member of the Board and his office shall thereupon become
vacant.
      (2)   Any appointed Board member failing to attend three successive
regular meetings without cause acceptable by the Board, shall be thereby
automatically removed from office and such vacancy filled hereinbefore
provided.
   (E)   Filling vacancies. When a vacancy occurs on the Board by reason of
death, resignation, change of residence from the city, failure to remain a
freeholder of the city, or due to any other cause, the remaining member or
members of the Board shall appoint a successor or successors, or if there be no
members left on the Board, the Council shall appoint successors, and in either
event, the appointment shall be for the unexpired term or terms, provided,
however, that when the vacancy is that of a member of the Council, then Council
shall appoint such successor for the unexpired term.
   (F)   Oath of members. After appointment, the members of the Board shall
qualify by taking and filing with the Recorder of the city the oath prescribed
by law for public officials, and they shall not be permitted to serve upon said
Board until they have so qualified. If any member of the Board shall fail to so
qualify on or before the date upon which he should assume the duties of his
office, a vacancy shall exist which shall be filled as provided in division (E)
above.
   (G)   Organization of Board, Secretary, and Treasurer. At the first meeting
held after the first Board has been appointed, and thereafter on the 1st day of
December of each year, the members of the Board shall organize by election one
of their number Presidents, and another Vice-President, and by electing a
Secretary and Treasurer, who may be one person and need not be a Board member,
and such officers shall hold office at the will of the Board. The Secretary
shall keep an accurate record of all the fiscal affairs of the Board, and shall
keep a minute book in which he shall record the proceedings and transactions of
each meeting of the Board. The Treasurer shall take the oath prescribed by law
and shall furnish such bond as may be required by the Board.
   (H)   Members to be paid expenses. The members of the Board shall receive no
compensation for their services but they shall be entitled to reimbursement for
all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the performance of
their duties as members of the Board.
   (I)   Members not to be personally interested in contracts or property
controlled by Board. A member of the Board shall not be personally interested,
directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by the Board, or hold any
remunerative position in connection with the establishment, construction,
improvement, extension, development, maintenance or operation of any of the
property under the control of the Board.
   (J)   Office. Council shall furnish the Board an office in the city building
where it may hold its meetings and keep its records.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2025)
§ 32.61 POWERS.
   (A)   General powers. The Board shall have the power to purchase, hold,
sell, and convey real or personal property; receive any gift, grant, donation,
bequest or devise, sue and be sued; contract and be contracted with; and do any
and all things and acts which may be necessary, appropriate, convenient or
incidental to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Purchase, lease or condemnation of real property. The Board shall have
the power and authority to acquire in its name or in the name of the city by
purchase, lease, or by exercise of the power of eminent domain, or otherwise,
such land or lands as it shall determine to be necessary, appropriate,
convenient, or incidental to the establishment, construction, improvement,
extension, development, maintenance or operation of a system of public parks,
parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating
rinks, or arenas and other public park and recreational facilities for the
city, whether of a like or different nature.
   (C)   Authority to take title to real and personal property; conveyances of
real property to Board by public body; sales and conveyances of real property
by Board; and execution of deeds. The Board is hereby empowered and authorized
to take title in its name or in the name of the city to all real and personal
property acquired by it for the use of the public or useful to the public in
the establishment, construction, improvement, extension, development,
maintenance, or operation of all public parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic
fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks or arenas and all other public
park and recreational facilities for the city, whether of a like or different
nature, and shall manage and dispose of the same as, in its opinion, will best
serve the interests of the public in carrying out the purposes of this section.
The city and all other public parks and recreation are hereby authorized to
convey the same to said Board to be held by it for such purposes, and said
Board is hereby authorized to receive the same. Nothing contained in this
subchapter shall be construed as limiting said Board from going beyond the
corporate limits of the city, anywhere within the state, to lease, purchase or
otherwise acquire any real property for the purposes herein set forth. The
Board shall have the right to sell and convey only such part of the real
property that it may acquire by gift, devise, or purchase or otherwise, as it
may determine to be of no advantage in the establishment, construction,
improvement, extension, development, maintenance or operation of said public
parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools,
skating rinks, or arenas and other public park and recreational facilities,
whether of a like or different naturel; except that the Board shall have the
power and authority to make such sales and conveyances of its real property as
may be necessary, appropriate or convenient to enable the city to obtain the
benefits of W.Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 16, or any other similar acts or legislative
authorization. Under no circumstances shall any of such real property of the
Board be sold or conveyed except by unanimous vote of all the members of said
Board. All deeds conveying the real property of said Board shall be executed in
its official name by its President or Vice-President, shall have its seal
affixed and shall be duly attested by its Secretary.
   (D)   General powers of Board. The Board shall have the necessary,
appropriate, convenient and incidental powers and authority to manage and
control all public parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums,
swimming pools, skating rinks or arenas and other public park and recreational
facilities of all kinds used as a part of said public park and recreation
system or as a means of maintaining places of beauty, education, and
recreation, and promoting the health, property, lives, decency, morality and
good order of the general public, and particularly of the inhabitants of the
city and vicinity; to abate or cause to be abated all nuisances affecting same;
to regulate or prohibit the selling of any article, goods, wares or merchandise
within said park and recreation system so designated; to regulate or prohibit
the placing of signs, billboards, posters and advertisements within said park
and recreation system as so designated, or the grounds immediately adjacent
thereto; to have the same kept in good order and free from obstruction for the
use and benefit of the public; to restrict and prohibit vagrants, mendicants,
beggars, tramps, prostitutes or disorderly individuals therefrom to establish,
construct, improve, extend, develop, maintain and operate such parks, parkways,
playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools, skating rinks or arenas
and other public park and recreational facilities, whether or a like or
different nature, on any grounds controlled by said Board; to acquire for
public use by lease or otherwise lands either within or without the corporate
limits of the city; to cause any public street, avenue, road, alley, way,
bridle path, or walkway, which is a part of the public park and recreation
system, to be graded, drained and surfaced; to construct, maintain and operate
all necessary sewers and water lines in connection with said public park and
recreation system; and to do any and all other things or acts which may in any
way be necessary, appropriate, convenient or incidental to the use and
enjoyment of said public park and recreation system by the general public as a
place or places of beauty, education, entertainment and recreation.
   (E)   Enactment and enforcement of rules and regulations; counsel. In order
to accomplish the purposes set forth in division (D) above, the Board is hereby
empowered and authorized to promulgate and amend from time to time such rules
and regulations as may be necessary, appropriate, convenient, or incidental
thereto; after codification of such rules and regulations, or any amendments
thereto, by ordinance of the Council which may provide penalties for a
violation thereof, which codification is hereby authorized, to enforce the same
by appropriate proceedings in any proper tribunal of this state, or any county,
district or municipality thereof; and to employ such police officers as it
shall deem necessary and proper. The City Attorney shall be the official
counsel for the Board and shall advise it on all legal matters, but the Board
may in its own discretion, employ other or additional counsel.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2025)
§ 32.62 FINANCING.
   (A)   Charges for use of recreational facilities; use of funds. The Board
may make reasonable charges to the public for the privilege of using any of the
recreational facilities provided in the park and recreation system and may use
the funds so received for the purpose of establishing, constructing, improving,
extending, developing, maintaining or operating said park and recreation
system.
   (B)   Use of city appropriation and other funds. In carrying out the
purposes of this subchapter, the Board is hereby empowered and authorized to
receive and disburse for such purposes, and moneys appropriated to it by the
Council, together with any other funds which may come into its hands by gift,
grant, donation, bequest, devise or from its operation or otherwise. Any
contracts or purchases for the sum of $35,000 or more shall be authorized and
approved by the Council of said city upon the recommendation of the Parks and
Recreation Board.
   (C)   Public parks and recreation bonds. The Board is empowered to recommend
to Council proposed capital improvement projects for the public parks and
recreational facilities of the city, and proposed financing thereof by the
issuance of bonds, in accordance with the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 8, Art.
21, § 13 and any other similar act or legislative authorization.
   (D)   Annual financial report. The Board shall submit to the Council on or
before September 1 of each year a detailed financial statement for the
preceding fiscal year of July 1 to June 30. Such report shall contain a
detailed record of all receipts and all disbursements. In addition, the Board
shall submit to Council from time to time such additional reports as Council
may request.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2025)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Election by ballot
   
33.02   Certificate of announcement
   
33.03   Filing fee
   
33.04   Elections in accordance with state law and residency requirements
   
33.05   Filing deadline
§ 33.01 ELECTION BY BALLOT.
   All elections hereinafter held for the election of city officers shall be by
the ballot system the same as state elections.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-24-1989)
§ 33.02 CERTIFICATE OF ANNOUNCEMENT.
   A certificate of announcement shall be filed, on behalf of all candidates
for city offices, with the City Recorder. Such certificate shall show the
office for which the candidate is filing, the name of the ticket he or she
represents, if any, his or her residence, number of ward and a statement of
eligibility to hold said office. Certificates of announcement forms shall be
furnished to all candidates by the City Recorder.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-24-1989)
§ 33.03 FILING FEE.
   Such candidate shall pay into the city treasury, at the time of filing his
or her certificate of announcement, the following fees:
 
For City Recorder     $8
For Mayor             $10
For member of Council $5
 
(Ord. 3, passed 1-24-1989)
§ 33.04 ELECTIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH STATE LAW AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   All elections hereafter held, shall be held in accordance with the W. Va.
Code Ch. 8, Art. 5, relating to election, appointment, qualification and
compensation of officers; general provisions, relating to officers and
employees; elections and petitions generally; and conflict of interests. The
municipality does by this chapter elect to establish residency requirement for
any elected officer to be that said elected officer must have resided within
the municipality boundary limits for a period of at least 30 days preceding his
or her election.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-24-1989)
§ 33.05 FILING DEADLINE.
   Such certificate of nomination, together with the filing fee therefor, shall
be filed with the City Recorder at least 80 days prior to the election. All
tickets and names of candidates not thus filed, and the filing fee so paid,
shall not appear on the official ballot.
(Ord. 3, passed 1-24-1989)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Hotel/Motel Tax
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Imposition of tax
   
34.03   Collection of tax
   
34.04   Records and returns
   
34.05   Liability
   
34.06   Exemptions
   
34.07   Rules and regulations
   
34.08   Distribution
Taxation on Public Utility Services
   
34.20   Generally
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Imposition and levying of tax; amount of tax
   
34.23   Collection; time of payment; accounting; effective date of subchapter;
proration
   
34.24   Records; inspection thereof
   
34.25   Exemptions
   
34.26   Nonliability of utility; duty of municipality; refunds; rules and
regulations
   
34.27   Enforcement provisions
   
34.28   Notice to utilities
   
34.29   Effective date
Municipal Sales and Use Tax
   
34.45   Adoption of municipal sales and use tax
   
34.46   Definitions
   
34.47   Imposition of municipal sales and service tax
   
34.48   Imposition of municipal use tax
   
34.49   Calculation of tax on fractional parts of dollar
   
34.50   State and local bases
   
34.51   Exceptions
   
34.52   Credit against municipal use tax
   
34.53   Tax cumulative
   
34.54   Local rate and boundary data base; changes
   
34.55   State level administration
   
34.56   Administrative procedures
   
34.57   Criminal penalties
   
34.58   Automatic updating
   
34.59   Deposit of taxes collected in general revenue fund
 
   
34.99   Penalty
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the content hereof requires otherwise, all terms used herein shall
have the same meanings as set forth in the W. Va. Code §§ 17-18-1 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 34.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed a tax on the use and occupancy of a hotel/motel room
within the boundaries of the city. The rate of said tax shall be 6% of the
consideration paid for such use and occupancy. The tax shall be paid by the
consumer or occupant of the hotel/motel room and be collected by the hotel/
motel operator as a part of the consideration paid for the occupancy of the
hotel/motel room.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 34.03 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax shall be collectible by the hotel/motel operator, who shall
account for, and remit to the city, all taxes paid by the consumer. The hotel/
motel operator shall separately state the tax on all bills, accounts, invoices,
books of account and records relating to the consideration paid for the
occupancy of the hotel/motel room.
   (B)   A hotel/motel or its operator shall not represent to the public, in
any manner, directly or indirectly, that it will absorb all or any part of the
tax or that the tax is not to be considered as an element of the amount
collected from the consumer.
   (C)   A hotel/motel operator doing business wholly or partly on a credit
basis shall require the consumer to pay the full amount of tax due upon the
credit sale at the time such sale is made or within 30 days thereafter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding that the total amount of such taxes collected by a
hotel/motel operator may be in excess of the amount of which a consumer would
be liable by application of the levy previously provided for in the imposition
of tax for the occupancy of a hotel/motel room(s), the total amount of all
taxes collected by any hotel/motel operator shall be remitted to the city.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 34.04 RECORDS AND RETURNS.
   (A)   Each hotel/motel operator shall keep accurate and complete records of
taxable sales charges, together with a record of the tax collected thereon.
Such record and document shall be kept and maintained for a period of three
years.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be due and payable in monthly
installments on or before the fifteenth day of the calendar month succeeding
the month in which the tax accrued; provided, that for credit sales in which
the tax authorized by this subchapter is not collected by the hotel/motel
operator at the time of such sales, such tax shall not, for the purposes of
this subchapter, be regarded as having accrued until the date on which it is
either received by the hotel/motel operator or upon expiration of the 30-day
payment period set forth in §
34.03, whichever shall first occur, The hotel/motel operator shall on or before
the fifteenth day of each month, prepare and deliver to the city a return for
the preceding month in a form and containing such information as required by
the City Clerk. Such form shall include all information necessary for
computation, collection and subsequent distribution as the city may require. A
remittance for the amount of tax due shall accompany each return. Each return
shall be signed by the hotel/motel operator or his or her duly authorized
agent.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.05 LIABILITY.
   (A)   If any hotel/motel operator fails to collect the tax imposed by this
subchapter or fails to report properly such tax to the city, he or she shall be
personally liable for such amount as he or she failed to collect or remit.
   (B)   If the hotel/motel operator is an association or corporation, the
officers thereof actually participating in the management or operation of this
association or corporation shall be personally liable, jointly and severally,
for any default on the part of the association or corporation to collect or
remit the tax required herein.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall not be collected for the following:
   (A)   For any consumer occupying a hotel/motel room for 30 or more
consecutive days;
   (B)   When the hotel/motel room is billed directly to the United States of
America or any agency thereof; and
   (C)   When the hotel/motel room is billed directly to the state or a
political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 34.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Clerk or City Council may promulgate rules, regulations,
administration and procedures concerning assessment, collection and refund of
the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
§ 34.08 DISTRIBUTION.
   All revenues collected by this subchapter for the hotel/motel occupancy tax
shall be deposited in the General Revenue Fund and expended for the following
purposes and none other:
   (A)   Fifty percent of said tax collected and deposited in the General
Revenue Fund during the fiscal year shall be paid to the convention and
visitor’s bureau located within the municipality, county or region; and
   (B)   The remaining funds shall be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   Planning, construction, reconstruction, establishment, acquisition,
improvement, renovation, extension, enlargement, equipment, maintenance, repair
and operation of convention facilities, including, but not limited to, arenas,
auditoriums, civic centers and convention centers;
      (2)   The payment of principal or interest, or both, on municipal bonds
issued pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-16-1 et seq., the proceeds
from the sale of which were used to finance convention facilities; and
      (3)   The promotion of conventions or any combination of the foregoing.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
TAXATION ON PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES
§ 34.20 GENERALLY.
   An excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using or consuming within
the corporate limits of this municipality any public utility service and
tangible personal property supplied by any public utility subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state (whether such public
utility be privately or municipally owned or otherwise owned by any type of
governmental entity) is hereby imposed and levied as follows.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations and combinations thereof, of whatever form or character.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. All services and tangible personal property
purchased within this municipality from a seller, as hereinafter in this
section defined, namely, telephone service; electric service; gas service,
including bottled or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified as a
public utility subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of
the state; and water service and sanitary sewer service; if purchased, used or
consumed within the corporate limits of this municipality.
   PURCHASER. Includes every person who purchases, uses or consumes a public
utility service.
   SELLER. Includes every person, whether a public service corporation, a
municipality or private corporation, classified as a public utility and subject
to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of the state, who sells,
furnishes or supplies a public utility service.
   USER. The owner or tenant of private residential property or the owner or
tenant of property used for commercial or industrial purposes, and every
combination thereof, of every kind of description.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.22 IMPOSITION AND LEVYING OF TAX; AMOUNT OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed and levied upon each and every purchaser of a public
utility service an excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using or
consuming, within the corporate limits of this municipality, such public
utility service. Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge (exclusive
of any federal or state tax thereon imposed upon the purchaser) made by the
seller against the purchaser with respect to each public utility service, which
tax in every case shall be collected by the seller and paid by the purchaser
upon the amount of each periodic statement rendered such purchaser by the
seller, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the time the
purchase price or such charge shall become due and payable under the agreement
between the purchaser and the seller. The tax imposed and levied by this
subchapter is in addition to all other taxes imposed and levied by this
municipality. In the event the amount of the charge for any single public
utility service exceeds the sum of $20,000 in any given calendar month, to any
single purchaser, no tax shall be imposed for such additional purchase, use or
consumption in excess of said amount of $20,000. In the event more than one
public utility shall furnish the identical public utility service to the same
purchaser, said purchaser shall be entitled to group the same as a single
public utility service in calculating the amount of the charges in any calendar
month for such public utility service.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.23 COLLECTION; TIME OF PAYMENT; ACCOUNTING; EFFECTIVE DATE OF SUBCHAPTER;
PRORATION.
   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collecting medium
or agency for this municipality to collect from each purchaser for the use of
this municipality the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of collecting
the purchase price charged for its public utility service, and the amount of
tax actually collected during each calendar month shall be reported by each
seller to this municipality and each seller shall remit the amount of tax shown
by said report to have been collected to this municipality on or before the
last day of the second calendar month following the month in which collected,
together with the name and address of any purchaser who has failed or refused
to pay the tax so imposed and levied. The tax imposed and levied by this
subchapter shall apply to periodic statements rendered after July 1, 1971 for
public utility service rendered subsequent to July 1, 1971, and when any such
periodic statement covers public utility service rendered both before and after
said date, only that portion of the charge for public utility service rendered
after said date shall be subject to such tax, and the portion subject to such
tax shall be such portion of the total charge as the number of days after June
30, 1971, within the period covered by such periodic statement, bear to the
total number of days covered by such periodic statement. The required reports
shall be in the form prescribed by the official of this municipality charged
with the responsibility of collecting taxes due this municipality.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.24 RECORDS; INSPECTION THEREOF.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of this
municipality, which records shall show the charge made against each purchaser,
the dates such public utility service was furnished, the date of payment
therefor, and the amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records shall be
kept for at least two years, during which period they may be inspected by the
duly authorized agents of this municipality at reasonable times, and the duly
authorized agents of this municipality shall have the right, power and
authority to make at the expense of this municipality such transcripts thereof
during such times as they may desire.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.25 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions, which transactions are hereby exempted from such tax:
   (A)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (B)   Purchases of tangible personal property such as appliances or the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (C)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones, and specific charges or tolls for
telephone calls to points outside the corporate limits of this municipality;
and
   (D)   Nonrecurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.26 NONLIABILITY OF UTILITY; DUTY OF MUNICIPALITY; REFUNDS; RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously
collecting the tax hereby imposed and levied or for erroneously failing to bill
for such tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the seller.
      (2)   When any purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by such
purchaser on the ground that the public utility limits of this municipality,
the seller shall refer the question to the official of this municipality
charged with the responsibility of collecting the taxes due to this
municipality, and such seller shall thereafter collect or refrain from
collecting such tax from such purchaser for such public utility service as
instructed in writing to do by such officials of this municipality.
      (3)   Any and all claims for refunds of any such tax shall be presented
to this municipality and not to the seller.
   (B)   The official of this municipality charged with the responsibility of
collecting taxes due this municipality shall have the authority to promulgate
and enforce reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration
and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.27 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under this subchapter shall be a debt due
this municipality. It shall be a personal obligation of the purchaser which
shall be enforceable as provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 13, § 15, as
amended, or in any other manner now or hereafter provided by law for compelling
the payment of taxes due municipalities.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.28 NOTICE TO UTILITIES.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not be effective until this
municipality gives 60 days’ written notice by certified mail of the effective
date of the subchapter to any public utility doing business within this
municipality which is required to collect the tax imposed and levied hereby.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
§ 34.29 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective July 1, 1971.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971)
MUNICIPAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 34.45 ADOPTION OF MUNICIPAL SALES AND USE TAX.
   The Council of the city hereby finds and declares that the adoption by this
city for its municipal sales and service tax and its municipal use tax
provisions of the Code of West Virginia, 1931, as amended, relating to
imposition, administration, collection and enforcement of the state consumers
sales and service tax codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15-1 et seq., the state use
tax codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15A-1 et seq., and the Streamlined Sales and
Use Tax Act codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15B-1 et seq. will simplify
collection of the municipality’s sales and use taxes, simplify preparation of
municipal sales and use tax returns by taxpayers, and improve enforcement of
the municipality’s sales and use taxes.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.46 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this subchapter or in the administration, collection and
enforcement of the taxes imposed by this subchapter and not otherwise defined
in this subchapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them in W. Va. Code
Chapter 11, Articles 9, 10, 15, 15-a and 15-b, as amended.
   BUSINESS. All activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in by any person
with the object of gain or economic benefit, direct or indirect, and all
activities of the state and its political subdivisions, which involve sales of
tangible personal property or the rendering of services when those service
activities compete with or may compete with the activities of other persons.
   CITY or THIS CITY. The City of Kingwood, West Virginia.
   CODE OF WEST VIRGINIA or W. VA. CODE. The Code of West Virginia, 1931, as
amended from time to time by the West Virginia Legislature.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership or any other legal entity,
including this state or its political subdivisions or an agency of either, or
the guardian, trustee, committee, executor or administrator of any person.
   PURCHASE. Any transfer, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any
manner or by any means whatsoever, for a consideration.
   PURCHASE PRICE. The measure subject to the taxes imposed by this subchapter
and has the same meaning as sales price.
   PURCHASER. A person who purchases tangible personal property, custom
software or a service taxed by this subchapter.
   SALE, SALES or SELLING. The meaning ascribed to those terms in W. Va. Code
Chapter 11, Article 15-b.
   SALES AND USE TAXES. The taxes imposed by §§
34.47 and
34.48 of this subchapter.
   SALES PRICE. The meaning ascribed to that term in W. Va. Code Chapter 11,
Article 15-b.
   SALES TAX. The tax levied by §
34.47 of this subchapter.
   SERVICE or SELECTED SERVICE. The meaning ascribed to those terms in W. Va.
Code Chapter 11, Article 15-b,
   STATE SALES TAX. The tax levied by W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15.
   STATE USE TAX. The tax levied by W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15-a.
   TAX. The taxes imposed by this subchapter and includes additions to tax,
interest and penalties levied under W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 10.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The Chief Executive Officer of the Tax Division of the
Department of Revenue of this State, as provided in W. Va. Code § 11-1-1.
   THIS STATE. The State of West Virginia.
   ULTIMATE CONSUMER or CONSUMER. A person who uses or consumes services,
tangible personal property or custom software.
   USE. For purposes of the tax imposed by §
34.48 of this subchapter means and includes:
      (1)   The exercise by any person of any right or power over tangible
personal property or custom software incident to the ownership, possession or
enjoyment of the property, or by any transaction in which possession of or the
exercise of any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software
or the result of a taxable service is acquired for a consideration, including
any lease, rental or conditional sales of tangible personal property or custom
software; or
      (2)   The use or enjoyment in this state of the result of a taxable
service. As used in this definition, “enjoyment” includes a purchaser’s right
to direct the disposition of the property or the use of the taxable service,
whether or not the purchaser has possession of the property. The term USE does
not include the keeping, retaining or exercising any right or power over
tangible personal property, custom software or the result of a taxable service
for the purpose of subsequently transporting it outside of the city for use
thereafter solely outside this city.
   USE TAX. The tax imposed by §
34.48 of this subchapter.
   VENDOR. Any person engaged in this city in furnishing services taxed by this
subchapter or making sales of tangible personal property or custom software.
VENDOR and SELLER are used interchangeably in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.47 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property or custom software
and for the privilege of furnishing certain selected service, a vendor doing
business in this city shall collect from the purchaser the taxes imposed by
this section and pay the amount of taxes collected to the tax commissioner at
the same time and in the same manner as the consumer sales and service tax
imposed by W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15, as amended, are paid to the tax
commissioner. The rate of the tax shall be 1% of the sale price, as defined in
§
34.46 of this subchapter of the tangible personal property, custom software or
taxable service purchased or leased.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.48 IMPOSITION OF MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   An excise tax is hereby levied and imposed on the use in this city of
tangible personal property, custom software and the results of taxable
services, to be collected and paid to the Tax Commissioner as the agent for the
city in the same manner that state use tax is collected under W. Va. Code
Chapter 11, Article 15-a and Article 15-b, as amended, and remitted to the tax
commissioner. The rate of tax shall be 1% of the purchase price, as defined in
§
34.46 of this subchapter, of the tangible personal property, custom software or
taxable services used within the city.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.49 CALCULATION OF TAX ON FRACTIONAL PARTS OF DOLLAR.
   The tax computation under §§
34.47 and
34.48 of this subchapter shall be carried to the third decimal place and the
tax rounded up to the next whole cent whenever the third decimal place is
greater than four and rounded down to the lower whole cent whenever the third
decimal place is four or less. The vendor may elect to compute the tax due on a
transaction on a per item basis or on an invoice basis provided the method used
is consistently used during the reporting period, but the method used shall be
the same as that used for purposes of computing the state sales or use tax.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.50 STATE AND LOCAL BASES.
   The taxable base of the taxes imposed by §§
34.47 and
34.48 of this subchapter shall be identical to the sales and use tax base of
this state except as provided in §
34.51 of this subchapter, unless otherwise prohibited by federal law, as
requires by W. Va. Code § 11-15B-34.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.51 EXCEPTIONS.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter do not apply to:
   (A)   The sale or use of motor fuel, as defined in W. Va. Code Chapter 11,
Article 14-c;
   (B)   The sale or use of motor vehicles upon which the tax imposed by W. Va.
Code Chapter 11, § 3-c, Article 15, is paid;
   (C)   The purchase or use of any tangible personal property, custom software
or service that the city is prohibited from taxing under the laws of this state
or of the United States;
   (D)   The sales tax imposed by §
34.47 of this subchapter does not apply to any transaction that is exempt from
the tax imposed by W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15; and
   (E)   The use tax imposed by §
34.48 of this subchapter does not apply to any purchase upon which the sales
tax imposed by §
34.47 has been paid.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.52 CREDIT AGAINST MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   A person is entitled to a credit against the use tax imposed by §
34.48 of this subchapter on the use of a particular item of tangible personal
property, custom software or results of a taxable service equal to the amount,
if any, of sales tax lawfully paid to another municipality for the acquisition
of that
property, custom software or service; provided, that the amount of credit
allowed may not exceed the amount of use tax imposed by §
34.48 of this subchapter on the use of the tangible personal property, custom
software or results of the taxable service in this city.
   (B)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Sales tax includes a sales tax or compensating use tax imposed on
the sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or the results
of a taxable service by the municipality in which the sale occurred; and
      (2)   Municipality includes all municipalities of this state or any other
state of the United States.
   (C)   No credit is allowed under this section for payment of any sales or
use taxes imposed by this state or any other state. For purposes of this
division (C), “state” includes the 50 states of the United States and the
District of Columbia but does not include any of the several territories
organized by Congress.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.53 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The taxes imposed by this subchapter are in addition to other taxes imposed
on the sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or taxable
services including, but not limited to, the State consumers sales and service
tax imposed by W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15; the state use tax imposed by
W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15 A; the public utility tax imposed by this
city pursuant to W. Va. Code Chapter 8, section 5a, Article 13; the amusement
tax imposed by this city pursuant to W. Va. Code Chapter 8, section 6, Article
13; the tax on sales of alcoholic liquors and wine imposed by this city
pursuant to W. Va. Code Chapter 7, section 6, Article 13; the hotel occupancy
tax imposed by this city pursuant to W. Va. Code Chapter 7, Article 18; and the
special district excise taxes imposed by a county pursuant to W. Va. Code § 7-
22-1 et seq. or a municipality pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 8-38-1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.54 LOCAL RATE AND BOUNDARY DATA BASE; CHANGES.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner is required by W. Va. Code § 11-15B-35 to
maintain a database for all jurisdictions levying a sales or use tax in this
state. The city shall furnish the tax commissioner with the information the Tax
Commissioner requires for that database that will allow the Tax Commissioner to
maintain a database that assigns each five-digit and nine-digit zip code within
the city to the proper rate of tax. If any nine-digit zip code area includes
area outside this city, the single state and local rate assigned to that area
in the Tax Commissioner’s database will be the lowest rate applicable to that
area; provided, that, when sales occur at and are sourced to a physical
location of the seller located in the city in that nine-digit zip code area,
the seller shall collect the tax imposed by § 34.487 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever boundaries of the city change, whether by annexation or de-
annexation, the city shall promptly notify the Tax Commissioner in writing of
the change in boundaries; provide the Tax Commissioner with the nine-digit zip
code or codes for the area annexed or de-annexed; and any other information the
Tax Commissioner may require to maintain the database. An ordinance annexing
property into the city, or ordinance removing property from the corporate
limits of the city may not take effect any sooner that the first day of a
calendar quarter that begins 60 days after the city provides written notice to
the Tax Commission of a change in the boundaries of the city.
   (C)   The nine-digit database shall be maintained by the city until such
time as the Tax Commissioner allows use of a different system to determine
whether a location is within or outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.55 STATE LEVEL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner is responsible for administering, collecting, and
enforcing the taxes imposed by this subchapter as provided in W. Va. Code § 8-
13C-6 and § 11-15B-33.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner may retain from collections of the taxes imposed
by this subchapter the fee allowed by W. Va. Code § 11-10-11C or by any other
state law or legislative rule.
   (C)   The Tax Commissioner shall deposit all the proceeds from collection of
the taxes imposed by this subchapter, minus any fee for collecting, enforcing
and administering taxes retained under this section, in the subaccount for this
city established in the Municipal Sales and Services Tax and Use Fund, an
interest-bearing account created in the State treasury pursuant to W. Va. Code
§8-13C-7. All moneys collected and deposited in the subaccount for the city
shall be remitted at least quarterly by the State Treasurer to the City
Treasurer, as provided W. Va. Code § 8-13C-7.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.56 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Each and every provision of the West Virginia Tax Procedure and
Administration Act set forth in W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 10 applies to
the administration, collection and enforcement of the sales and use taxes
imposed pursuant to this subchapter, except as otherwise expressly provided in
W. Va. Code Chapter 8 Article 13-c, with like effect as if that act were
applicable only to the taxes imposed by this subchapter and were set forth in
extenso in this subchapter, as provided in W. Va. Code § 8-13C-6.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.57 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Each and every provision of the West Virginia Tax: Crimes and Penalties Act
set forth in W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article nine, applies to the
administration, collection and enforcement of the municipal sales and use taxes
imposed pursuant to this subchapter with like effect as if that act were
applicable only to the taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter and were set
forth in extenso in this subchapter, as provided in W. Va. Code § 8-13C-6.
Provided, that the criminal penalties imposed upon conviction for a criminal
violation of this subchapter may not exceed the maximum penalties allowed by
law for a similar violation of the ordinances of this city.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.58 AUTOMATIC UPDATING.
   Any amendments to W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Articles nine, ten, 15, 15-a and
15-b, shall automatically apply to the municipal sales and use tax imposed
pursuant to this subchapter, to the extent they are applicable to the taxes
imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.59 DEPOSIT OF TAXES COLLECTED IN GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   When the City Treasurer receives periodic distributions of municipal sales
and use taxes from the State Treasurer, the City Treasurer shall promptly
deposit the amount received in the general revenue fund or account of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In regards to §
34.01 through
34.08, no person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Willfully refuse to pay the tax;
         (b)   Willfully refuse to make the return required by §
34.01 through
34.08;
         (c)   Willfully make any false or fraudulent return or false statement
in any return with intent to defraud the city;
         (d)   Willfully evade the tax or any part thereof; and/or
         (e)   Willfully aid or abet another in an attempt to evade the payment
of tax or any part thereof.
      (2)   No officer, partner or principle of any corporation or association
shall willfully make or willfully permit to be made for any corporation or
association any false return or any false statement in any return with the
intent to evade payment thereof.
      (3)   Whoever willfully violates any provisions of §
34.01 through
34.08 shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any purchaser failing or refusing to pay the tax hereby imposed and
levied and any seller or purchaser violating any §§
34.20 through
34.29 or any lawful rule and regulation promulgated hereunder shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than
$100. The failure or refusal to pay the tax for public utility service
purchased, used or consumed during different periodic statement periods shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 13, passed 4-27-1971; Ord. passed 2-10-2009)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE COURT
Section
   
35.01   Establishment of Police Court
   
35.02   Appointment of Police Judge
   
35.03   Jurisdiction of Police Judge
   
35.04   Compensation of Police Judge
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICE COURT.
   There shall be a Police Court for the municipality, which said Court shall
be authorized to exercise such judicial powers, authority and duties as are
within the jurisdictions of the city, which said duties are further set forth
in the W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 10, § 1, as amended, and other similar or
related judicial powers, authority and duties that are enumerated in other
applicable ordinances and code provisions.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-27-1982)
§ 35.02 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE JUDGE.
   That there shall be appointed an officer to be known as the Police Court
Judge of the municipality to preside and exercise the judicial powers,
authority and duties authorized to the Police Court of the municipality. Said
Police Court Judge shall be a resident of the city and shall be appointed by
the Council. The term of the Police Court Judge shall be for one year; provided
that the initial appointment of the Police Court Judge shall be effective as of
July 1, 1982.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-27-1982)
§ 35.03 JURISDICTION OF POLICE JUDGE.
   The Police Court Judge of the municipality shall be authorized to exercise
the judicial powers, authority and duties as within the jurisdiction of the
municipality, and as are set forth in the W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 10, § 1, as
amended, and all similar or related judicial powers, authority and duties as
may be enumerated in other ordinances and code provisions. Said Police Court
Judge shall, in all events, have the jurisdiction as within the municipality,
and shall be authorized to handle matters involving the enforcement of
ordinances, traffic violations, municipal powers and all other powers as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-27-1982)
§ 35.04 COMPENSATION OF POLICE JUDGE.
   The Council of the city shall provide for the compensation of said Police
Court Judge, and shall pay the sum of not less than $100 per month to said
person appointed as Police Court Judge during the term of said appointment.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-27-1982)
CHAPTER 36: FEES
Section
   
36.01   Fee schedule
§ 36.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fees to be charged for the use of city equipment and services.
Item Rental Charge
Item                           Rental Charge
Backhoe/1 city employee        $75 per hour
Bucket truck/1 city employee   $50 per hour
Camera truck/1 city employee   $125 per hour
Cherry mist/1 city employee    $25 per application
Dump truck/1 city employee     $50 per hour
Dumpster
   2-yard dumpster          $60/month
   4-yard dumpster          $75 first week, $25 each week thereafter
   6-yard dumpster          $75 first week, $25 each week thereafter
   8-yard dumpster          $100 first week, $25 each week thereafter
Jet rodder/1 city employee     $100 per hour
Sewer camera/1 city employee   $125 per hour
Street sweeper/1 city employee $100 per hour
Vacuum truck/1 city employee   $100 per hour
 
      (1)   No city equipment other than the dumpsters shall be rented or used
by any individual other than a city employee. Any use of city equipment other
than the dumpsters require that a city employee accompany the equipment and
that the rental amount include wages for the city employee. Any time that the
dump truck is taken to a site and left for debris collection, the truck shall
be parked, locked and the keys returned to the city until such time as a city
employee removes the truck from the rental location.
      (2)   Any use of city equipment other than the dumpsters requires that a
city employee accompany the equipment and that the rental amount listed herein
will be in addition to the wages for the city employee. The wages for the city
employee as of 2018 will be charged at an hourly rate of $27. Thereafter, upon
an approval of a motion of the City Council, that hourly rate may be increased
to account for increases in wages or other costs of the employee. A motion by
City Council will determine the hourly wage rate and will not require an
amendment to the ordinance. In order to properly advise individuals as to the
pending hourly wage rate, a sheet shall be attached to the ordinance codified
herein to identify the rate in effect. In order to calculate the rate to be
charged, the hourly rates of all city employees together with the FICA,
retirement and PEIA costs shall be averaged by adding all of said amounts and
then dividing said total amount by the number of employees to arrive at an
average hourly rate to be charged herein.
      (3)   All fees charged for the use of city equipment and for services
rendered shall be billed by invoice within one month of the use of the
equipment and/or receipt of services. Fees, when invoiced, shall be payable
upon receipt of invoice by the private individual or company.
   (B)   Fees to be charged for copies of city documents. There shall be a
charge of $0.30 for each page copied by a city employee for a private entity.
Said fees shall be paid at the time that the copies are provided.
(Ord. passed 3-13-1989; Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   REFUSE AND RECYCLING
      
51.   SCHEDULE OF RATES
      
52.   SEWER USE
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE AND RECYCLING
Section
Refuse Collection
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Department of Sanitation; County Health Officer as Sanitation Inspector
   
50.03   Private collectors prohibited; subscription to municipal service
required
   
50.04   Trash and garbage containers
   
50.05   Refuse regulations
   
50.06   Removal of refuse regulations
   
50.07   Rates
   
50.08   Collections; records and reports; accounting
   
50.09   Solid waste disposal facility
Recyclable Items
   
50.20   Authorization for recycling
   
50.21   Ownership of recycling
 
   
50.99   Penalty
REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of Preston County.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who for hire, collects, removes or disposes of
refuse.
   REFUSE. All sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, garbage,
industrial or domestic wastes, organic wastes or residue of animals sold as
meat, fruit or other vegetable matter from kitchens, dining rooms, markets or
places of dealing in or handling meats, fowls, fruits, grain or vegetables,
offal, animal
excreta, the carcasses of animals, tree or shrub trimmings, grass clippings,
dirt, wood, stone, brick, plaster or materials or substances which may become
nuisances, some of which are more particularly classified as follows.
      (1)   PREPARED GARBAGE. Waste material from kitchens, dining rooms and
similar places, from which liquids have been drained and solid matter wrapped
in paper.
      (2)   RAW GARBAGE. Swill not prepared as in the definition for PREPARED
GARBAGE above.
      (3)   TRASH. Waste material containing no putrid matter or organic
wastes.
   REFUSE COLLECTIONS. The gathering of refuse containers and their contents
from the premises of improved property and loading contents into removal
vehicles, and returning containers to places where found after contents have
been emptied, for which the charge is made as provided hereinafter in this
subchapter.
   REFUSE DISPOSAL. The disposition of refuse in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the City Council.
   REFUSE REMOVAL. The hauling and transportation of refuse from point of
collection to point of disposal.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 50.02 DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION; COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER AS SANITATION
INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There shall be a Department of Sanitation under the supervision and
direction of the City Council. The Supervisor of City Services or other duly
authorized officer, with the approval of Council, shall be adequately equipped
and supplied with personnel and equipment to properly and satisfactorily carry
out the essential public service of collecting, removing and disposing of
refuse produced in the households and places of business of the residents of
the city.
   (B)   The Supervisor of City Services or other duly authorized officer, with
the approval of Council, shall have, and is hereby given authority to
prescribe, publish, promulgate and enforce any reasonable rules and regulations
deemed by him or her necessary or proper, consistent with this subchapter, to
carry out the objects and purposes thereof and for the safety and health of the
residents of the city in respect to the collection, removal and disposal of
refuse as defined in this subchapter. The County Health Officer is hereby made
and shall be ex officio Sanitation Inspector whose duty it shall be to advise
and consult with the Supervisor of City Services or other duly authorized
officer with respect to enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 50.03 PRIVATE COLLECTORS PROHIBITED; SUBSCRIPTION TO MUNICIPAL SERVICE
REQUIRED.
   No person, except the city, shall engage in or conduct the business of
collection, removal or disposal of refuse, ashes, raw garbage or prepared
garbage within the city, unless said person (includes sole proprietorship,
corporation or other form of legal business entity) engaged in the business as
authorized to so collect refuse and has a certificate of necessity to provide
service within the municipal limits of the city as issued by the State Public
Service Commission. Private scavengers, push cart operators and private garbage
collectors who are not authorized and certificated for such collection within
the municipal boundaries of the city by the State Public Service Commission are
hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting or disposing of
raw or prepared garbage and refuse containing organic wastes, putrid matter and
wastes or excreta subject to purification. All persons, businesses, houses,
firms or corporations residing in or doing business within the city shall be
required to pay the refuse/garbage fee as set forth within this subchapter;
however, such payment does not require that the individual or business
subscribe to the services and use the services provided by the fee paid. All
persons, businesses, houses, firms or corporations residing in or doing
business within the city may use any authorized and certificated refuse service
he, she or it may desire; however, all parties shall pay the fees as set forth
in this subchapter, regardless of the use of the service. No person shall
neglect or refuse to pay for the same at the rates established by Council for
the type of service furnished each such person.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 TRASH AND GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   The trash and garbage containers referred to in this subchapter shall meet
the following specifications.
   (A)   Standard containers for the storage of garbage shall be substantially
made of metal and/or heavy duty plastic weight material, to be leakproof and
water-tight with a tight-fitting cover and shall have a capacity not to exceed
26 gallons; any container having a capacity of over 20 gallons shall have two
carrying handles, but any container of less than 20 gallons capacity may be
equipped with an adequate bail-carrying handle. In place of the metal/plastic
containers, heavy duty garbage bags will be acceptable for the storage of
garbage and collection thereof. Said garbage bags shall be considered as
“containers” as hereinafter referenced. All garbage to be collected shall be
put in heavy duty garbage bags first, regardless of whether an exterior garbage
container is used. Loose garbage within a garbage container, other than within
a garbage bag, will not be collected.
   (B)   (1)   No more than five 30- or 39-gallon garbage bags or no more than
ten 13-gallon garbage bags will be collected from any residence at each garbage
collection.
      (2)   Any item of garbage set out for collection must be of a reasonable
weight.
      (3)   Any items of excessive weight will not be collected by the city
during garbage collection.
   (C)   The Supervisor of City Services or other proper officer of the
Department of Sanitation may authorize or direct the use of such other or
special containers as the circumstances of any particular situation may
require.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018)
§ 50.05 REFUSE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited accumulations of refuse. Except as may otherwise be
provided in the City Building Code, no person shall cause or permit the
accumulation of refuse in, about or upon premises owned, occupied or used by
him or her, when and if, in the judgment of the County Health Officer, such
accumulation is unsightly, unsanitary or hazardous to the property, life,
health, safety or welfare of the people.
   (B)   Delivering refuse upon private property. No person shall deliver
refuse to or upon private property.
   (C)   Disposition of refuse. No person shall dispose of refuse within the
city except as provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   Littering, permitting premises to become unsanitary, hazardous. No
person shall throw, place or scatter any garbage, rubbish, trash, ashes or
other refuse over or upon any premises, street or alley, either public or
private, or adjacent thereto, and either with or without the intent to later
remove or burn the same; or permit from the accumulation of refuse, any
premises owned, occupied or controlled by such person, to become or remain
offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, unsafe to public health or hazardous from
fire.
   (E)   Storage of refuse. No person shall store or permit the storage of
refuse on or about his or her premises, or the premises occupied by him or her,
unless such refuse is kept separately in standard trash and garbage containers
as provided by this subchapter.
   (F)   Collectible refuse. Collectible refuse must be generated at the
location of the specific residence or business which has requested such
service. Refuse from any other location shall not be collected within the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 REMOVAL OF REFUSE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Removal by municipal employees prohibited without containers. No
municipal employee shall collect or remove, at city expense, any refuse from
the premises of any person or tenant thereof, unless such premises are equipped
with standard containers referred to in this subchapter or as specifically
authorized by the Supervisor of City Services or other authorized person, and
unless such refuse is kept stored in such containers.
   (B)   Storage of garbage in containers. No person shall deposit or store
garbage in refuse containers unless such garbage has been prepared for
collection, removal and disposal, and complies with the definition of prepared
garbage as set out in §
50.01. Lids shall be kept on garbage containers at all times.
   (C)   Accessibility of refuse containers. All persons using the essential
services provided for in this subchapter within the city shall make all refuse
containers available and accessible to collectors at the curb line adjacent to
the public street or public sidewalk nearest the person’s property not sooner
than 12 hours prior to 6:00 a.m. on the scheduled day of collection for the
particular area in which such users reside. It shall be the duty of all users
of such essential services to ascertain the collection schedules for the area
in which they reside and if any such user of such essential services shall fail
to make his or her refuse containers available as herein required, the
collectors shall refuse to make such collection and such refusal shall not
constitute a failure of collection; provided, however, that where, by reason of
the number of users of such service located in one building, or where no
facilities are or can be made available for the placing of garbage containers
on the ground floor or where for any other reason it appears impossible or
impracticable for such user of such service to comply with the provisions of
the section, then in any of such events any such user may apply to the
Supervisor of City Services for permit and permission to be exempt from the
provisions of this section and upon investigation, by the said Supervisor it
appearing proper to do so, the Supervisor may issue a certificate of exemption
from the provisions of this section. Any user of such service who shall be
aggrieved by a decision of the Supervisor with regard thereto may appeal such
decision in writing to Council within 30 days from and after the date of the
decision of such Supervisor. Council shall fix a time for the hearing of such
appeal and after due notice to all parties in interest shall hear such appeal
at a public hearing at the regular meeting of Council and the decision of
Council thereon shall be final.
   (D)   Administrative rules and regulations. City Council and the Supervisor
of City Services shall each have a right to issue, promulgate and establish
such rules and regulations as shall be deemed necessary or proper for the
effective administration of this subchapter and not inconsistent herewith.
   (E)   Right of Council to describe methods of disposal. Council reserves the
right by proper order or resolution to provide for the disposal of garbage and
refuse by the use of incinerators, landfill garbage method or such other
disposal methods as shall in its discretion appear practical or necessary.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 RATES.
   In order to provide a Department of Sanitation for the city and to finance
the operations thereof, there is hereby established a schedule of fees, rates
and charges for standard type of refuse, garbage and sanitation services within
the city as follows.
   (A)   Minimum charge for services generally except commercial.
      (1)   The following rates are the minimum and are subject to adjustment
for abnormally large volume. In this context, ABNORMALLY LARGE VOLUME shall be
defined as being the collection of more than five 30- or 39-gallon garbage bags
or ten 13-gallon garbage bags on each of two collection  days in a one-month
period. Should any residence paying minimum charge for collection experience an
abnormally large volume of garbage and trash collection, the residential rate
shall be adjusted and increased by the Supervisor of City Services in the same
manner provided for commercial adjustments in division (C) below. Such minimum
rates are applicable to and include one collection per week of prepared garbage
and trash only:
 
User                                   Rate per Month (in advance)
Each residential household (within     $18.25
city)
Each residential household (without    $18.25
city)
                                       $6.45% of monthly bill or such
                                       percentage amount as has been approved
                                       by the State Public Service Commission
                                       (PSC) for the fuel adjustment surcharge
Each user within and without city fuel for all refuse collectors subject to
surcharge                              review by the PSC, said amount to
                                       fluctuate up and down without further
                                       amendment of this subchapter, subject to
                                       notice of increase or decrease by the
                                       PSC
 
      (2)   The term RESIDENTIAL HOUSEHOLD shall include each individual
residence and each individual occupied apartment. No discount shall be given to
buildings housing more than one residential household. Each residential
household shall be billed as hereinbefore provided.
      (3)   All property owners of buildings which have multiple units and have
only one water meter for the entire building shall be required to pay the
refuse collection fee for each individual unit. In order for the landlord to be
exempt from paying for a unit which is not rented/leased for at least one day
of each billing period, the landlord shall file a statement of occupancy with
the City Clerk on or before the fifteenth of each month. Should the landlord
fail to file the statement of occupancy on or before the fifteenth day of each
month, the property owner shall be billed for each unit within the building,
regardless of whether it is rented/leased. A certificate of occupancy is
attached hereto and made a part of this subchapter. There is further provided
that should the owner of the building falsify any certificate of occupancy or
fail to advise the city of the unit becoming rented/leased after the
certificate of occupancy has been filed for the month, the owner shall be
subject to violation of this subchapter and the penalties hereinafter set
forth.
      (4)   All users who shall at any time during a one-year period suspend
the use of this service and shall no longer make monthly payments for
collection shall pay the amount of $15 to reinstate collection of refuse on a
monthly rate and said reinstatement fee shall be applicable to all users when
such use is suspended for less than a one-year term.
   (B)   Minimum charge for commercial services.
      (1)   Stores, hotels, restaurants, offices and other business and
commercial establishments, multiple unit residential structures with a central
refuse pickup point, mixed use structures with a central pickup point,
factories and industries shall pay for the service a fee based upon the
following schedule of rates and other contracts which may be so negotiated with
the municipality.
 
Class                      Rate per Month
                           Within City            Without City
All waste                                         
   Per cubic yard per we$27.48                 $31.60
   Fuel surcharge       6.45 % of monthly rate 6.45% of monthly rate
 
      (2)   The fuel surcharge for within city and without city shall be as
identified or such percentage amount as has been approved by the State Public
Service Commission (PSC) for the fuel adjustment surcharge for all refuse
collectors subject to review by the PSC, said amount to fluctuate up or down
without further amendment of this subchapter, subject to notice of increase or
decrease by the PSC.
      (3)   Any commercial services for all waste exceeding 40 yards per week
shall be established by the Supervisor of City Services in accordance with
costs which may be incurred for said commercial user and in consideration of
the appropriate rationale used in accordance with establishing the rate for the
afore referenced classes.
      (4)   The commercial rates as hereinbefore outlined shall be applicable
to each individual business regardless of the number of businesses located in
any one building.
   (C)   Bulky goods collection rates.
      (1)   Rates:
 
Bulky Goods Collection Rates
Non-subscribing households      $15 per pickup, with a limit of 2 items
                                6.45% of each bill or such percentage
                                amount as has been approved by the State
                                Public Service Commission (PSC) for the
Subscribing and non-subscribing fuel adjustment surcharge for all refuse
households                      collectors subject to review by the PSC,
                                said amount to fluctuate up or down
                                without further amendment of this
                                subchapter, subject to notice of increase
                                or decrease by the PSC
 
      (2)   The rates and charges for bulky goods collection are limited to
those residential customers within the city certificated territory who reside
more than one mile from any point or points along the present corporate limits
of the city.
   (D)   Rates. The rates as hereinbefore established shall be the rates
established for the refuse collection for commercial services for the classes
as hereinbefore designated. In such circumstances as when a certain class may
have special requirements or may be a combination of certain of the above
classes or may not specifically relate to any of the specified classes, the
Supervisor of City Services shall advise the commercial user as to the rate to
be charged per collection for such specified commercial user, which said rate
shall be established by said user and in consideration of the appropriate
rationale used in accordance with establishing the rates for the
aforereferenced classes.
   (E)   Notice.
      (1)   The Supervisor of City Services shall mail by United States mail to
each commercial user a statement of the rate to be charged said user as herein
established by this subchapter, which said notice of rate shall be mailed to
each commercial user no less than 15 days prior to the effective rate charge,
unless said 15 days are waived by said commercial user, and said notice to be
made in advance of said collection.
      (2)   Any commercial user of this service who shall be aggrieved by a
rate as established by the Supervisor of City Services or by the rate as
established within this subchapter, may appeal such rate charge in writing to
City Council within 30 days from and after the date of such appeal and after
due notice to all parties in interest, shall hear such appeal at a public
hearing at the regular meeting of Council and the decision of Council thereon
shall be final.
   (F)   Refuse not collected. Under divisions (A) and (B) above, the city
shall not collect, remove or dispose, nor shall the Sanitation Department or
transfer station employees receive the following types of refuse: raw garbage;
offal; sewage; animal excreta; the carcasses of animals; vehicles or parts of
vehicles; tires; large tree stumps; materials determined by the Sanitation
Superintendent to be hazardous or potentially hazardous or toxic; or materials
resulting from the demolition, repair, alteration or erection of buildings or
structures, or sand.
   (G)   Ashes.
      (1)   The city shall collect ashes one time each month, which date shall
be established by the Supervisor of City Services to be a date certain in each
month from the month of October of each year through and including the month of
April of the following year. Only residents within the municipality may receive
such service and must apply for such service prior to October of each year.
Said recipients of this service shall pay in advance for the seven months of
service at the time of application. The monthly fee for such ash collection
shall be $5 for each month during the term of October through and including
April. Any additional requested service in regard to ash pickup shall be
considered a special pickup and shall be in accordance with special service
charges as hereinafter provided. Removal of ashes by municipal employees shall
be prohibited, unless such ashes is placed in cans of a size of ten gallons or
less. Ashes places in any other type of container, including boxes shall not be
serviced.
      (2)   Rates for all commercial users of the ash pickup service shall be
established by the Supervisor of City Services after considering any special
requirements of the commercial user and which said rates shall be in accordance
with the costs which may be incurred for said commercial user and in
consideration of the appropriate rationale used in accordance with establishing
the rate for the household users.
   (H)   Rates for transfers by individuals or companies.
 
                                                                Rates Per Load
Minimum rate ($2 per bag)
Minimum rate applicable until said amount is exceeded, then per $17.20
bag rate is applicable (applicable only if total weight of all
bags is less than 400 pounds)
All other loads shall be priced for rate by weight per load     $86
 
      (1)   Any special pick-up provided by the city will be at the rate of the
per ton total weight rate plus $27 per hour, per worker regular time.
      (2)   (a)   Should the pick-up be on overtime hours, the per worker
payment rate is $40.50 per hour.
         (b)   The special pick-up made for the City Volunteer Fire Department
during the Preston County Buckwheat Festival shall be at the rate of the per
ton total weight rate plus $27 per hour, per worker for four hours regular time
for the pick-up made on Friday.
         (c)   The special pick-up made for the City Volunteer Fire Department
during the Preston County Buckwheat Festival shall be at the rate of the per
ton total weight rate plus $40.50 per hour per worker for eight hours overtime
for each of the pick-ups made on Saturday and Sunday.
   (I)   Recovery of unpaid charges. If the fee, rate or charge for any of the
foregoing services shall not be paid within 30 days after the same is due, the
amount thereof may be recovered as provided by the law of the state.
   (J)   Special services.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to deny standard refuse service to
any person whose refuse requirements are sufficiently abnormal or different, in
the opinion of the County Health Officer, as to justify special handling in
which case a special charge will be made.
      (2)   This shall include those buildings or dwellings not readily
accessible to refuse collectors, or in cases where refuse is not found in
standard containers.
   (K)   Placement of garbage; time limits. All items to be collected by the
Sanitation Department, except household garbage, shall be placed for collection
on the property line adjacent to the street or sidewalk not sooner than 12
hours prior to 6:00 a.m. on the day of the collection.
   (L)   Solid waste disposal facility rates.
Rates
Rates
Minimum rate               $2 per bag
Rates per load             $23.19
   Minimum rate applicable until said amount is exceeded, then per bag rate is
applicable. (Applicable only if total weight of all bags is less than 500
pounds)
Rate per ton               $92.75
   All other loads shall be prices for rate by weight per load
Tires
   Up to 17 inches      $6 with rim $11
   17 inches and up     $12 with rim $17
   Construction vehicle $24
tires
 
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018; Ord. passed 4-21-2021; Ord. passed 5-30-2021; Ord.
passed 6-11-2024) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 COLLECTIONS; RECORDS AND REPORTS; ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   Collection.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall promptly collect all charges for the services
provided for in this subchapter.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall keep in the office proper records showing all
collections made and received by the office, and shall prepare and deliver to
Council upon Council’s request a detailed statement, in writing, setting out
all moneys received for all services during the immediately preceding month,
and show by names and in other details the persons paying for services, and the
amounts paid for the several services, and the names of the persons who have
not paid. The City Clerk shall also promptly report to the Mayor or other duly
authorized officer all persons in default for such services, together with the
respective amounts thereof.
      (3)   The City Clerk, with approval by Council, shall prescribe such form
and records as shall be proper and necessary for the collection and accounting
of all moneys for all services under this subchapter, with authority to require
the City Clerk and Supervisor of City Services to duly observe and comply with
the same. The system of accounting prescribed by the City Clerk, upon approval
of Council, shall show the amount of revenue received and the application of
the same, and the city shall, at least once a year, cause such accounts to be
properly audited by a competent auditor, and the report of such auditor shall
be open for inspection at all times to any taxpayer or resident of the city, or
any person receiving service under the provisions of the subchapter, or to any
other person.
   (B)   Revision and adjustment. Council shall have the right to revise the
schedule of rates prescribed by this subchapter and so adjust them that costs
will be distributed as equitably as possible among all residents of the city on
the basis of benefits received. In the event revenue is not sufficient from the
rates herein to meet all obligations and costs involved in rendering refuse
service to the public, then rates shall be adjusted as necessary to keep the
Sanitation Department, as herein defined and regulated, self-supporting.
   (C)   Rental occupancy reports.
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who lets or rents property to any
person who possesses or occupies such property in the city, and does not pay
the appropriate sanitation fee for garbage pick-ups, as required by the city,
shall provide, in writing, to the City Clerk, a list of the names and addresses
of any such persons and likewise for all changes of occupancy. This provision
does not apply to persons, firms or corporations who rent a multi-unit building
which has only one water meter. The owner of the property is responsible for
such payment for services as set forth above.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the requirements or
provisions hereof shall be liable for payment of all sanitation fees in the
same manner and same amount as if such persons, firm or corporation were the
possessor or occupier of such property.
(Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Transfer station rules and regulations.
      (1)   No semis or tractor trailers allowed.
      (2)   All vehicles must be properly licensed and registered and have West
Virginia inspection sticker.
      (3)   No speeding; all traffic laws are posted and must be observed at
all times.
      (4)   No buying or selling of anything is permitted.
      (5)   No hunting.
      (6)   No firearm or lethal weapons of any kind allowed on city property
or on your person.
      (7)   Fighting, horseplay, gambling, stealing or scavenging of discarded
or refuse material is prohibited.
      (8)   All private vehicles must be off the transfer station property at
the end or the workday.
      (9)   No alcoholic beverages or non-prescription drugs allowed.
      (10)   No loitering.
      (11)   No tampering with equipment or utilities, water, electric, etc.
      (12)   All accidents (vehicle or personal) must be reported immediately
to transfer station office.
      (13)   Be courteous and respectful at all times.
      (14)   No hazardous material or chemicals arc allowed. Listed are known
products that will not be accepted in the transfer station:
         (a)   Herbicides;
         (b)   Motor oils;
         (c)   Radioactive materials;
         (d)   Pesticides;
         (e)   Solvents;
         (f)   Cleaners/detergents;
         (g)   Paints/paint thinners
         (h)   Fuels (gasoline, kerosene, diesel);
         (i)   Batteries;
         (j)   Explosives; or
         (k)   Pool chemicals.
   (B)   Operating hours.
      (1)   7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 7:00 a.m. to 12:00
p.m. Saturday from April 1 through November 15 of each year. Last weigh in
Monday through Friday is at 2:30 p.m. and Saturday 11:30 a.m.
      (2)   7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday from November 16
through March 31 of each year. Last weigh in is at 2:30 p.m.
      (3)   The city transfer station will observe a monthly “free day” for
residential customers of Watershed B. In accordance with H.B. 4364 § 20-5F-4b
this day will be the first Monday of each month.
   (C)   (1)   The facility shall be closed on the following holidays:
         (a)   New Year’s Day;
         (b)   Martin Luther King Day;
         (c)   Presidents Day;
         (d)   Good Friday;
         (e)   Memorial Day;
         (f)   West Virginia Day;
         (g)   Juneteenth;
         (h)   Independence Day;
         (i)   Labor Day;
         (j)   Columbus Day;
         (k)   Veteran’s Day;
         (l)   Last Friday of September;
         (m)   Thanksgiving Day and following Friday;
         (n)   Half day on Christmas Eve; and
         (o)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   The facility will be closed on the Saturday after a Friday holiday
or before a Monday holiday.
   (D)   Billing and collection. Charges for receipt of waste must be paid at
the time of delivery, unless a credit agreement has been executed.
   (E)   Refusal of service.
      (1)   Failure to abide by rules and regulations of the transfer station.
      (2)   Vehicle with illegal license plate or registration.
      (3)   Hazardous waste or industrial material that is not approved by West
Virginia Department of Natural Resources in writing.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2024)
Cross-reference:
   For solid waste disposal facility rates, see § 50.07
RECYCLABLE ITEMS
§ 50.20 AUTHORIZATION FOR RECYCLING.
   The Council of the city, with assistance from the City Supervisor shall
establish what recyclable items shall be collected and shall determine the
manner of collection and days of collection. Said Council is authorized to
establish all guidelines required in regard to this process and to make the
public aware of such guidelines. Should any costs be required of those
individuals participating in the recyclable collection, the Council is
authorized to set said costs and charges.
(Ord. passed 11-26-2008)
§ 50.21 OWNERSHIP OF RECYCLING.
   (A)   Any customer of the refuse collection of the city who lives within the
city limits may participate in the curbside collection of recyclables.
   (B)   Once the recyclables have been placed at the curbside of the customers
home in the manner set forth in guidelines of the city, such recyclables shall
be the property of the city. Should any individual, other than an employee of
the city, collect the recyclables from the property of a refuse collection
customer without the written authorization of the city, he or she shall commit
a violation of this subchapter punishable as set forth in §
50.99.
(Ord. passed 11-26-2008) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08, or fails, neglects or refuses to abide by and comply with the rules or
regulations promulgated to effectuate the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08, shall be fined not more than $500 or shall be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
   (C)   Any person who is guilty of a violation of any provision of §§
50.20 and
50.21, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$500 for each offense and each offense shall be deemed committed upon the
taking of said recyclables from each property at the time that a violation
occurs. Such fine is applicable to the person found taking such recyclables
from said individual property without permission. The city police, upon
observing such action or upon investigation of the same, shall immediately give
notice of the violation upon the offender. The violation shall be reported and
hearing held at which time a fine may thereafter be issued.
(Ord. passed 11-26-2008; Ord. 32, passed 7-10-2018)
CHAPTER 51: SCHEDULE OF RATES
Section
Sewer
   
51.01   Applicability
   
51.02   Availability of service
   
51.03   Rates
   
51.04   Minimum bill
   
51.05   Unmetered/unmeasured rates
   
51.06   Bulk rate charge for dumping
   
51.07   Delayed payment/penalty
   
51.08   Sewer connection charge (tap fee)
   
51.09   Security deposit
   
51.10   Reconnection service charge
   
51.11   Returned checks for insufficient funds
   
51.12   Leak adjustment
   
51.13   Surface water
Water
   
51.25   Applicability
   
51.26   Availability of service
   
51.27   Rates
   
51.28   Minimum charge
   
51.29   Resale rate
   
51.30   Delayed payment/penalty
   
51.31   Water connection charge (tap fee)
   
51.32   Reconnection service charge
   
51.33   Returned checks for insufficient funds
   
51.34   Leak adjustment
   
51.35   Security deposit
   
51.36   Privately owned fire hydrants and fire sprinkler systems (including
governmental owned systems
   
51.37   Meter testing
Water Rates for Present Customers
   
51.55   Applicability
   
51.56   Availability of service
   
51.57   Rates (customers with metered water supply)
   
51.58   Minimum charge
   
51.59   Other charges pertaining to water service
SEWER
§ 51.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Applicable to entire area served.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.02 AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   Available for general domestic, commercial and industrial sanitary sewer
service.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.03 RATES.
 
Number of Gallons/Month Rate
First 2,400 gallons     $24.37 per 1,000 gallons
Next 7,600 gallons      $21.33 per 1,000 gallons
Next 490,000 gallons    $8.14 per 1,000 gallons
Over 500,000 gallons    $5.91 per 1,000 gallons
(Based upon metered volume of water supplied)
 
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.04 MINIMUM BILL.
   (A)   No bill shall be rendered for less than $58.49 per month.
   (B)   The monthly minimum bill shall be $58.49 per month.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.05 UNMETERED/UNMEASURED RATES.
   In the event the water supply is unmetered or otherwise unmeasureable, the
unmetered rate shall be charged. The unmetered rate shall be $58.49 per month
for residential customers. Each occupied trailer located within or outside of a
house trailer court and which occupied trailer receives unmetered water service
is required to pay a minimum of $58.49 per month. The municipality shall
collect from each unmetered customer who has only a sanitary sewer connection
with the municipality a sewer use flat rate per month of $58.49.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.06 BULK RATE CHARGE FOR DUMPING.
   The bulk rate charge for dumping fee is in the amount of $69.77 per 1,000
gallons of appropriate and legal dumping matter as determined by the Sanitary
Sewer Supervisor.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.07 DELAYED PAYMENT/PENALTY.
   (A)   The above rates are net. On all current usage billings not paid in
full within 20 days of billing date, a 10% penalty will be added to the net
amount shown. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is only to be
collected once for each bill where it is appropriate.
   (B)   If any bill is not paid within 60 days after the due date, water
service to the customer will be discontinued. Water service will not be
restored until all past due water and sewer bills have been paid in full and
all accrued penalties plus a reconnection charge have been paid.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§ 51.08 SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE (TAP FEE).
   (A)   All new tap-ons will be charged a $500 connection fee.
   (B)   The city shall have no obligation to acquire by condemnation or
otherwise additional rights-of-way or easements necessary for extension of
lines, which shall be provided by applicant upon terms and conditions approved
by the city.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§ 51.09 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   Not to exceed one-twelfth of the annual estimated charge for residential
service or one-sixth of the annual estimated charge for all other service, or
$50, whichever is the greater. After the customer has paid bills for service
for 12 consecutive months without a delinquency, the deposit plus any accrued
interest will be refunded to the customer.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§ 51.10 RECONNECTION SERVICE CHARGE.
   There shall be a reconnection charge of $20, which shall be paid prior to
restoration of water service previously disconnected for non-payment of sewer
charges.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§ 51.11 RETURNED CHECKS FOR INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   If a check received is returned by the bank for any reason, the bank’s
charge to the town shall be the town’s charge to the customer for such a bad
check, but such charge to the customer shall not exceed $25.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§ 51.12 LEAK ADJUSTMENT.
   There shall be a leak adjustment of $1.95 per 1,000 gallons to be used when
a water bill reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed to eligible
leakage on customer’s side of the meter. The rate shall be applied to all such
consumption above the customer’s historical average.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022; Ord. passed 4-23-2024)
§ 51.13 SURFACE WATER.
   (A)   Surface or ground water surcharge over and above the tariff charges
for sanitary sewer discharge. Upon the utility having determined by smoke
testing, dye testing or on-site inspection that rain or surface water is being
introduced into the sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, the
utility shall send a letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
hand delivery, advising the customer that the rain or surface water must be
removed from the sanitary sewer system within 90 days of receipt of the letter.
An additional amount shall be charged where surface or ground water is
introduced into the sanitary system where evidence of a violation exists. Said
surcharge is applicable only when said letter was received no later than 90
days prior to December 1 of each year due to the inclement weather during the
months between December and March. The surcharge formula is to be applied in
cases where surface drainage is connected to the utility’s sanitary sewer
system.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Whenever the utility has discovered that a customer’s roof drain,
downspout, storm sewer or similar facilities conducting surface water have been
connected to the utility’s sewer system, and such customer has failed to take
appropriate action, within 90 days of receipt of a demand by the utility in
accordance with the rules of the Public Service Commission to eliminate such
connection, a surcharge will be imposed upon the customer calculated on the
basis of the following formula:
 
S = A x R x .0006233 x C
   S = The surcharge in dollars
   A = The area under roof and/or the area of any other water collection
surface connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet
   R = The measured monthly rainfall, in inches
   .0006233 = A conversion factor to change inches of rain x square feet of
surface water to thousands of gallons of water
   .0008333 = A conversion factor to change inches of rain x square feet of
surface water to $ (dollar) per 100 cubic feet
   C = The utility’s approved rate per thousand gallons of metered water usage
 
      (2)   The utility shall not impose the surcharge unless and until the
customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke
testing, dye testing or on-site inspection that rain or surface water is being
introduced into the sanitary sewer system at the customers location, and that
the customer has not acted within 90 days from receipt of such notice to divert
the water from the sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month that
said condition continues to exist. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or correct
the situation shall give rise to the possible termination of water service in
accordance with the rules of the Public Service Commission of the state.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2019; Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
WATER
§ 51.25 APPLICABILITY.
Available to present customers of the city excluding the area previously served
by the Preston County Public Service District No. 2.
(Ord. passed 12-11- 2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord.
passed 2-28-2023; Ord passed 5-28-2024)
§ 51.26 AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   Available for general domestic, commercial, industrial and resale water
service.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord. passed 2-28-2023; Ord
passed 5-28-2024)
§ 51.27 RATES.
   Customers with metered water supply:
 
Number of Gallons/Month Rate
First 5,000 gallons     $13.95 per 1,000 gallons
Next 35,000 gallons     $9.50 per 1,000 gallons
All over 40,000 gallons $8.96 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord.
passed 2-28-2023; Ord passed 5-28-2024)
§ 51.28 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   No bill shall be rendered for less than $27.90 which is the equivalent to
2,000 gallons or the following minimum amounts according to the size of meter
installed:
Size of Meter Minimum Amount
Size of Meter           Minimum Amount
5/8-inch meter, or less $27.90 per month
3/4-inch meter          $41.85 per month
1-inch meter            $69.75 per month
1-1/2-inch meter        $139.50 per month
2-inch meter            $223.20 per month
3-inch meter            $446.40 per month
4-inch meter            $697.50 per month
6-inch meter            $1,395.00 per month
8-inch meter            $2,232.00 per month
 
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord.
passed 2-28-2023; Ord passed 5-28-2024)
§ 51.29 RESALE RATE.
   All water for resale shall be billed at $6.72 per 1,000 gallons used per
month.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord. passed 2-28-2023; Ord
passed 5-28-2024)
§ 51.30 DELAYED PAYMENT/PENALTY.
   (A)   The rates listed in §§
51.27 through
51.29 are net.
   (B)   On all current accounts not paid in full when due, a 10% penalty will
be added to the net current amount unpaid.
   (C)   This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is only to be
collected once for each bill where it is appropriate.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.31 WATER CONNECTION CHARGE (TAP FEE).
   (A)   A charge of $350 will be made for every new subscriber, outside of a
certificate proceeding before the Commission, requiring a new connection for
meters of one inch or less.
   (B)   Where new connections involve meters larger than one inch, the new
connection will be $400 or actual cost, whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.32 RECONNECTION SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Whenever the supply of water is turned off for violation of rules and
regulations, nonpayment of bills or fraudulent use of water, a reconnection
charge in the amount of $25 shall be paid as tariff for reconnecting service.
   (B)   If service is discontinued at the request of a customer, the city
waterworks may refuse service to such customer, at the same premises, within
eight months, unless said waterworks shall first receive payment in the amount
of $25 as a tariff for reconnecting services.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.33 RETURNED CHECKS FOR INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   A service charge equal to the actual bank fee assessed to the utility, not
to exceed $25 will be imposed upon any customer whose check for payment of
charges is returned by their bank due to insufficient funds.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.34 LEAK ADJUSTMENT.
   $2.97 per thousand (1,000) gallons is to be used when the hill reflects
unusual consumption which can be attributed to eligible leakage on the
customer's side of the meter. This rate shall be applicable to all such
consumption above the customer's historical average usage.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord
passed 5-28-2024)
§ 51.35 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   Not to exceed two-twelfths of the annual usage of the applicant’s specific
customer class, or $50, whichever is greater. This fee may be changed by
applicable statutory provisions.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.36 PRIVATELY OWNED FIRE HYDRANTS AND FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS (INCLUDING
GOVERNMENTAL OWNED SYSTEMS).
   (A)   Fire hydrant and fire sprinkler systems installed on privately owned
property as part of a privately owned fire protections system, within or
outside the corporate limits of the city, will be installed by the property
owner at the owner’s expense, in accordance with engineering plans approved by
the Kingwood Water Works. Kingwood Water Works will provide, at Kingwood Water
Works' expense, any necessary extension of its distribution lines, to the
private property line, to serve the private fire protection system. The charge
for this extension work, to be assessed against the property owner, will be an
annual charge equal to 24% of the cost of the extension work payable until the
entire cost of the extension work has been repaid to Kingwood Water Works.
   (B)   Privately owned fire hydrants and sprinkler systems in existence of
the effective date of this tariff will be assessed an annual service charge of
$299.99 per individual hydrant or fire sprinkler system.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2012; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord.
passed 2-28-2023)
§ 51.37 METER TESTING.
   Upon request of any customer of the system, the city waterworks will test or
replace the customer’s water meter as soon as reasonably possible, and if the
meter is found to be defective, the customer’s account will be adjusted
accordingly. If the meter is found to be accurate within the prescribed
guidelines of the West Virginia Public Service Commission, then the customer’s
account will receive no adjustment and will be billed a charge of $25 for meter
replacement.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
WATER RATES FOR PRESENT CUSTOMERS
§ 51.55 APPLICABILITY.
   Applicable to the entire area previously served by Preston County Public
Service District No. 2.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.56 AVAILABILITY OF SERVICE.
   Available for general domestic, commercial and industrial service.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2019, Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.57 RATES (CUSTOMERS WITH METERED WATER SUPPLY).
 
Number of Gallons/Month                     Rates
First 3,000 gallons of water used per month $13.26 per 1,000 gallons
Next 3,000 gallons of water used per month  $12.81 per 1,000 gallons
Next 4,000 gallons of water used per month  $12.35 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons of water used per month $11.75 per 1,000 gallons
Over 20,000 gallons of water used per month $11.15 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.58 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   No bill will be rendered for less than the following based on the size of
the meter installed:
 
Size of Meter       Minimum Amount
5/8-inch meter      $26.52 per month
3/4-inch meter      $39.78 per month
1-inch meter        $66.30 per month
1 (1/2)- inch meter $132.60 per month
2-inch meter        $212.60 per month
 
(Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 51.59 OTHER CHARGES PERTAINING TO WATER SERVICE.
   Charges for other services provided to the former customers of Preston
County Public Service District No. 2, i.e. delayed payment penalty, tap fee,
reconnection charge, returned check charge, leak adjustment, security deposit,
and all other charges applicable to the residents of the city as set forth
within this chapter shall also be applicable to the former customers of Preston
County Public Service District No. 2 who are to be charged the rates as set
forth in §§
51.57 and
51.58.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
52.015   Authority to establish and maintain a sewage system
   
52.016   Declaration for necessity
   
52.017   Application for sewer service required
   
52.018   Permit for connection; tapping charge
Connection to Public Sewers
   
52.030   Tapping or opening sewer without permit
   
52.031   Sewer taps only by authorized persons
   
52.032   Sewer tap construction
   
52.033   Approval of connections by Sewer Board Supervisor
   
52.034   Unauthorized connections prohibited
   
52.035   Establishment of schedule of rates and charges; use of water meters
   
52.036   Establishment rates applicable to premises subsequently served
   
52.037   City subject to established rates or charges
   
52.038   Authority vested in Council for billing and connection
   
52.039   Lien for enforcement of collection of billed rates or charges
   
52.040   Industrial use of sewers
   
52.041   Duration of liability for sewer service
   
52.042   User’s responsibility to keep sewer/grinder pump clean
   
52.043   Leaks
   
52.044   City not liable for damage
   
52.045   Tampering with sewer appurtenances
   
52.046   Entering sewer
   
52.047   Injury to sewer
Discharge Into Public Sewers
   
52.060   Unpolluted discharge
   
52.061   Stormwater
   
52.062   Flammable, explosive or hazardous substances and foreign matter
   
52.063   Toxic substances
   
52.064   Conditional service
   
52.065   Grease, oil and sand separators
   
52.066   Pretreatment
   
52.067   Metering and sampling devices
   
52.068   Design data on connection
   
52.069   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
52.070   Surcharge for abnormal industrial wastes
   
52.071   Disclaimer
Power and Authority of Sewer Board Supervisor
   
52.085   Right of entry for purpose of discharge inspection
   
52.086   Collection of information
   
52.087   Required safety procedures
   
52.088   Right of entry to and from all negotiated easements
Surface Water
   
52.100   Surface or ground water surcharge over and above the tariff charges
for sanitary sewer discharge
Prohibited Discharges Into System
   
52.115   Prohibited discharges
   
52.116   Removal of prohibited discharge
Additional Action
   
52.130   Discharge prohibited
Restricted Use of Other Form of Sewer System
   
52.145   Other forms of septic systems
Amendments
   
52.160   Amendments
   
52.161   Precedence of past and present ordinances
Sewer Rates Generally
   
52.175   Administration of sewer use rate
   
52.176   Enforcement of sewer use rate
   
52.177   Surcharge for abnormal industrial wastes
   
52.178   Environmental protection requirements; definitions
   
52.179   Additional Police Court action
   
52.180   Restrictive use of other form of sewer system
   
52.181   Prohibited discharges
   
52.182   Requirements in regard to use of sewer
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen, utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CITY. The City of Kingwood, West Virginia.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COUNCIL. The Mayor and fellow members, respectively, of the City Council of
Kingwood, West Virginia, as constituting the governing body of said City of
Kingwood.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary strength wastes.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
GROUNDWATER.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ion, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen concentration of
10-.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER DEPARTMENT SUPERVISOR. The duly appointed representative of the city
who is charged with the responsibility of the day to day operations of the
wastewater facilities or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and adversely affects the collection system
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying
water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 52.015 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN A SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   For state law as to authority of city to establish and maintain a sewer
system and sewage treatment and disposal system and to acquire property
necessary therefor, see W. Va. Code §§ 16-13A-1 and 16-13A-8. As to authority
of city to make low cost improvements, including the construction, renewing and
preparing of storm, sanitary and combined sewers, see W. Va. Code § 16-13A-7.
As to authority of city to levy assessments for sewer improvements, and to
regulate sewer connections, see W. Va. Code § 16-13A-9. As to city, see W. Va.
Code §§ 16-13A-1 et seq. As to jurisdiction of city for purposes of this
subchapter, see W. Va. Code § 16-13A-8. As to requirement that method of
drainage and system for extra disposal conform to plans, specifications and
instructions of State Department of Health, see W. Va. Code § 16-1-9.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.016 DECLARATION FOR NECESSITY.
   (A)   The use of the sewer system of the city is determined and declared to
be essential for the protection and preservation of the public health, comfort,
safety, economy and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and of the
area served thereby.
   (B)   The owner, tenant or occupant of premises which abut on a street,
easement or other public way containing a sewer service, or which, in the
judgement of the Council of the city, is located within such a distance thereof
that sewer service is reasonably available thereto and upon which premises a
building or other inhabitable structure has been or shall be erected for
residential, commercial or industrial use, or where persons are employed or
congregate or are intended to be employed or congregate, shall be required to
connect the building or structure to the sewer system or to such part of the
sewer system as may from time to time be extended or become reasonably
available, and shall thereafter refrain from using or cease to use any other
method in place of the sewer services which are now, or may hereafter become,
available; and shall thereafter pay all the charges, rates or fees as herein,
or may hereafter be, provided for. All such connections shall be in accordance
with the rules and regulations which shall be adopted from time to time by the
Council of the city, and such rules and regulations may provide for reasonable
charges, fees or deposits required for making such connections.
   (C)   For provisions as to authority of city to compel owners and the like,
of property abutting on or near the street in which public sewer is laid and
upon which any building and the like is erected, to connect such property to
the sewer; see W. Va. Code § 16-13A-9.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.017 APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including public bodies as well
as natural persons, to make an initial cut-in or connection with the city sewer
system and use that system without first making written application for such
connection and service to the Council and paying all costs, charges, fees and
deposits incident thereto. Such application shall be made on forms prescribed
and furnished by the Council, and shall constitute an agreement by the
applicant with the city to abide by all provisions of this subchapter and such
applicable rules and regulations of the Council in regard to the use of the
sewer system. Such application for service by firms, partnerships, associations
and corporations shall by submitted only by their duly authorized agent, and
the official title of such agent shall be signed to the application.
   (B)   The application shall grant or cause to be granted to the city,
without cost, all rights, easements, permits and privileges which are necessary
for the rendering of sewer service. Duly authorized employees of the Council
shall have access at all reasonable hours to the premises of the applicant for
the purpose of installing or removing any of its property, examining pipes or
fixtures or for any purpose incidental to the rendering of sewer service.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION; TAPPING CHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether property owner, drainlayer or
otherwise, to connect with or tap a city sewer, either directly or indirectly,
without first having a permit from the Council and having paid the tapping or
maintenance charge fixed by law. In all cases, the tapping and maintenance
charges for tapping a city sewer shall be as specified from time to time by the
Council in an appropriate ordinance schedule, which shall be adopted by the
city and maintained on file in the office of the city.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.030 TAPPING OR OPENING SEWER WITHOUT PERMIT.
   No person shall cut, break, pierce or tap any public sewer or appurtenances
thereof, or introduce any tube, pipe, trough or conduit into any public sewer
or appurtenance thereof without a written permit from the Council.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031 SEWER TAPS ONLY BY AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   No person, except those persons duly employed or authorized by the city or
by the Council for such purpose, shall tap the city’s sewer mains.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032 SEWER TAP CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Sewer Department
Supervisor, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the material and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of
the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (E)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Sanitary Sewer Supervisor for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city for the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the SPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight and verified by
proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must
be approved by the Sewer Board Supervisor before installation.
   (G)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Sewer
Department Supervisor when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made at the
point of connection under the supervision of the Sewer Department Supervisor or
his or her representative.
   (H)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033 APPROVAL OF CONNECTIONS BY SEWER BOARD SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   No sewer service shall be connected until the plumbing and connections
incident thereto shall have been inspected and approved by Sewer Department
Supervisor.
   (B)   No sewer service line shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system
if that service line will contain flows other than sanitary wastewater. Roof
drains, yard and area drains, footer drains or any line other than that which
serves a sanitary plumbing system are prohibited from connection to the city
system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.034 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall connect to or turn on any sewer service, or cut-in,
interconnect, tap or make any alternations to any main or distribution or
collection pipe of the city’s sewer system or permit any connection or tapping
to be made to the sewer system on his or her premises or the premises occupied
by him or her, or knowingly use the sewer service from connections in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by
the Council with respect thereto. Roof drains, yard and area drains, footer
drains or any line carrying flow other than exclusively sanitary wastewater are
prohibited from connection to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.035 ESTABLISHMENT OF SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES; USE OF WATER METERS.
   For the payment of the proper and reasonable expense of operation, repair,
replacement, improvements, additions, betterments, extensions and maintenance
of the sewer system and for the payment of the sums required to pay the
principal and interest of all sewer revenue bonds as they become due, the
Council shall enact and may from time to time amend a schedule of just and
equitable rates or charges for the use of and service rendered by the municipal
sewer system and works of the city, which schedule of rates or charges shall be
based upon the metered amount of water supplied the premises; and each schedule
shall be maintained on file in the office of the city while it is in effect.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.036 ESTABLISHMENT RATES APPLICABLE TO PREMISES SUBSEQUENTLY SERVED.
   The rates or charges so established for any class of users or property
served shall be extended to cover any additional premises hereafter served
which fall within the same class, without the necessity of any hearing or
notice.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.037 CITY SUBJECT TO ESTABLISHED RATES OR CHARGES.
   The city shall be subject to the established charges and rates, or to
charges and rates established in harmony therewith, for services rendered the
city and shall be deemed to be a part of the revenues of the sewage system and
works and be applied as provided for the application of such revenues.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.038 AUTHORITY VESTED IN COUNCIL FOR BILLING AND CONNECTION.
   All rates or charges provided for by this subchapter shall be billed and
collected monthly by the Council or by persons or agencies authorized by the
Council. All bills shall be considered due and payable as provided in the rate
schedule. The municipality shall bill each customer individually for said sewer
use rate on a monthly billing schedule. The City Clerk shall be responsible for
the monthly billing and for the collection of the monthly sewer use rate. The
City Clerk of said municipality shall be responsible for establishing a
separate account for said sewer use moneys and for depositing all collection
from said sewer use rate into said separate account. Said City Clerk shall
maintain said account and all records as may be necessary, and shall provide
the same for any audit by the State Auditor in accordance with audits of the
city.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.039 LIEN FOR ENFORCEMENT OF COLLECTION OF BILLED RATES OR CHARGES.
   (A)   All such rates or charges, if not paid when due, shall be a lien upon
the premises served by such system or works, and if such rates or charges not
be paid within 30 days after due, then the amount thereof, together with a
penalty of 10% and a reasonable attorney fee, may be recovered by the Council
in a civil action in the name of the city as hereinafter provided. In
connection with such action, such lien may be foreclosed against such lot,
parcel of land or building, in accordance with the laws relating thereto.
Should another provision be provided within the actual rate schedule, that
provision shall have priority.
   (B)   There shall be an enforcement provision to provide for the collection
of said sewer use charge by the municipality. Any person, firm or corporation
who violates any provision of this subchapter in regard to paying the rate
charge per customer, as previously enumerated, shall have a period of 30 days
from and after the date of bill in which to pay the sewer use charge. Upon the
expiration of 30 days from and after the date of mailing of said sewer use
billing, the City Clerk of the municipality shall be responsible for sending a
letter of notice to said person, firm or corporation who has violated division
(A) above by not paying the sewer use rate charge. Said notice from the Clerk
of the municipality shall give notice unto the person, firm or corporation who
has failed to pay the sewer use rate charge that said payment must be made on
or before 30 days from the mailing of said notice, and further said notice
shall provide for a date 30 days from the mailing of said notice that said
person, firm or corporation who has violated the subchapter shall appear before
the Police Court Judge to show cause why he or she has failed to pay said
charge. Said hearing shall be before the Police Court Judge without a jury,
unless a jury is requested by the person, firm or corporation so violating the
subchapter.
   (C)   A certified transcript of a judgment for a fine rendered by the
Municipal Court may be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court
and docketed in the judgment lien book kept in the office of the Clerk of the
County Commission in the same manner and with the same effect as the filing and
docketing of a certified transcript of judgment rendered by a Magistrate Court,
as provided for in the W. Va. Code Ch. 50, Art. 50, § 2. The judgment may
include costs assessed against the defendant. Execution shall be fieri facias
issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court in the same manner as such writs are
issued on judgements for a fine rendered by the Circuit Court or other courts
of record under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 62, Art. 4, § 11, as amended.
   (D)   The municipality shall further be authorized by this subchapter to
seek a judgment for any past due sewer rate charge against any person, firm or
corporation who has violated any provision of this subchapter. Said judgment
shall be of suit filed in the Magistrate Court of the county or in other court
of competent jurisdiction or in the Circuit Court of the county, and shall be
collected in accordance with the laws of the state and the West Virginia Code,
as amended, in regard to obtaining judgement and enforcement of said judgement
in favor of the municipality.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.040 INDUSTRIAL USE OF SEWERS.
   Where the character of sewage from any manufacturing or industrial plant,
building or premises is such that it imposes a burden upon the sewer system in
addition to the burden imposed by the average sewage entering the sewer system,
such additional charge shall be made therefor as the Council shall deem to be
fair and equitable to meet the additional cost of collection, treatment and
disposal of such sewage; and the Council may, if it deems advisable to do so,
compel the owner, tenant or occupant of such manufacturing or industrial plant,
building or premises to treat such sewage in such manner as shall be specified
by the Council before discharging into the sewer system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.041 DURATION OF LIABILITY FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   Liability for service shall begin for a user on the date of connection to
the sewer system; and such liability shall continue thereafter unless such
premises are disconnected from the sewer system with the approval of the
Council. After such liability begins, no allowance shall be made for vacant
houses unless request in writing to have the sewer system shut off is received
by the Council, nor will any allowance be made for any shut-off period which is
less than 30 days.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.042 USER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO KEEP SEWER/GRINDER PUMP CLEAN.
   (A)   The property owner, regardless of the property being occupied by a
tenant, shall be continuously responsible for maintaining and keeping the sewer
pipe leading to and between the plumbing system of his or her premises to the
city’s connecting sewer clean and free from obstruction, and shall not cause,
suffer or permit any article or thing, liquid as well as solid, to be
introduced into the pipe which causes a stoppage thereof. In the event of any
such obstructions or stoppage the Council shall have the right to cut off the
water connection, which shall not be reconnected until such sewer pipe is
cleaned and maintained properly; and in the further event of the failure of
such user to remedy such obstruction or stoppage, the Council shall have the
right to enter upon said premises and make necessary repairs, the costs and
expenses of which shall be included as part of the charges against such
premises. The property owner is responsible to advise tenants of their
responsibilities in maintaining the sewer, but the actual responsibility as to
repairs and costs incurred by the city for the property sewer line shall be in
the owner of the property.
   (B)   In furtherance of the property owner’s responsibility to maintain and
keep sewer pipe clean and free from obstruction, this is of particular concern
when the use of a grinder pump is required to provide sewer service to the
property. The property owner, or through direction of the property owner to the
tenant or occupant of the property, shall not cause or permit any article or
thing, liquid as well as solid, including rags, large obstacles that are not
soluble or anything type of object not being a normal discharge into the sewer
system. The property owner shall be responsible for the actions of his, her or
its tenants or occupants of the property. Should the grinder pump be damaged
due to the negligence of the property owner or his, her or its tenants or
occupants, the property owner is responsible to replace or repair the grinder
pump as is necessary to provide sewer service to the property. Should damage
occur to the grinder pump, the property owner shall be given notice by
certified mail return receipt requested or by personal service stating that the
grinder pump was damaged, what caused the damage and the estimated cost of said
repair or replacement. Should damage occur to the grinder pump requiring
replacement or repair and the property owner is the name in which the sewer
account is in, the entire cost of the replacement and/or damage shall be pro-
rated over a 12-month period and applied to the sewer billing for said service
with the entire amount of the expense to be paid in a 12-month period of time.
Should the property owner not be the name in which the sewer account is listed,
the property owner shall have a 12-month period of time in which to pay the
cost of repairs or replacement. Should this not be paid appropriately, the city
shall have the right to file a suit in Circuit Court of the county or
Magistrate Court to seek judgement against the property owner.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.043 LEAKS.
   No allowance or adjustment of any sewer bill shall be made for water leaks
of any nature occurring on the user’s side of the meter if the water so leaked
enters the sewer.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.044 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE.
   Neither the city nor the Sewer Board shall be liable for any damage
resulting from bursting of any sewer main, service pipe or valve, or from
discontinuing the operation of its sewer valve, or from discontinuing the
operation of its sewer collection, treatment and disposal facilities, for
repairs, extensions or connections, or from the accidental failure of the
sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities from any cause whatsoever.
In cases of emergency, the Council shall have the right to restrict the use of
its sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities in any reasonable
manner for the protection of the city and its sewer system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.045 TAMPERING WITH SEWER APPURTENANCES.
   No person shall turn, lift, remove, raise or tamper with any cover or any
manhole, basin, inlet or other appurtenance of any public sanitary and/or storm
sewer without a written permit from the city, or of any combined sewer or
sanitary sewer without a written permit from the Council.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 ENTERING SEWER.
   No person, other than one employed by the city while on duty, shall enter
any public sanitary and/or storm sewer or appurtenance thereof without a
written permit from the city, or shall enter any public combined sewer or
sanitary sewer without a written permit from the Council.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.047 INJURY TO SEWER.
   No person shall break or damage any public sewer or appurtenance or part
thereof.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
DISCHARGE INTO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.060 UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGE.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters
such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling
water to any sewer, except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which
stormwater may be polluted at times may be charged to the sanitary sewer
without permission of the Sewer Department Supervisor and the necessary permit
obtained.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 STORMWATER.
   Stormwater, other than that exempted under this chapter, and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as combined sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the Sewer
Department Supervisor and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial
cooling water or process waters may be discharged on approval of the Sewer
Department Supervisor to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.062 FLAMMABLE, EXPLOSIVE OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND FOREIGN MATTER.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower or higher than that normally
encountered in the system, or having any other corrosive property capable of
causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment/operation and personnel of
the wastewater works without a permit to do so; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063 TOXIC SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Sewer Department Supervisor may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below if in his or her opinion such more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability, the Sewer Department Supervisor will give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Sewer Board Supervisor are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see §
52.001). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens, for the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Sewer Board Supervisor for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Sewer Board Supervisor;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such halflife or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Sewer Board Supervisor in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
slug as defined in §
52.001;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (10)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release noxious gases, from suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.064 CONDITIONAL SERVICE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.063, and which in the judgement of the Sewer Department Supervisor may have
a deleterious effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Sewer Department Supervisor may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of §
52.070.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Sewer Department
Supervisor shall give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative
on the discharged. If the Supervisor permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installations of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Supervisor.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.065 GREASE, OIL AND SAND SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors may be required to be installed by
the property owner, if in the opinion of the Sewer Department Supervisor, they
are necessary for the proper handling of wastes disposed into the system. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Supervisor and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In maintaining these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible
for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured
material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which
are subject to review by the Supervisor. The Supervisor and duly authorized
employees of the city shall be permitted to enter the building for observation
and sampling of waste. These requirements apply to all commercial operations,
businesses, multi-dwelling complexes, apartments and individual residences,
when necessary.
   (B)   The Sewer Department Supervisor shall give written notice to any
property owner and/or business that, in his or her opinion, has an interceptor
that needs pumped out. Such notice shall notify the property owner and/or
business that the interceptor must be cleaned out within seven days of the date
of the notice and that further the Supervisor shall be given notice of the date
and time of said pumping so that the Supervisor will be present to inspect the
work. Should the property owner and/or business fail to timely pump and clean
the interceptor and a period of 30 days shall have passed since the written
notice was given, the Sewer Board may request that the city waterworks
terminate the water service to said property or business due to a health hazard
issue. The property owner and/or business would be responsible for all fines
and costs incurred in getting the water service restored.
   (C)   Any person, business, limited liability company, corporation or
organization violating any provisions of this section shall become liable to
the Sewer Department for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of such violation. Should any person, business, limited liability
company, corporation or organization fail to pay costs incurred in making
repairs will be subject to enforcement through filing of legal action through
the appropriate court system. Should any person, business, limited liability
company, corporation or organization repeatedly fail to make necessary changes,
said named entity shall be subject to being disconnected from the sewer system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 PRETREATMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.067 METERING AND SAMPLING DEVICES.
   When required by the Sewer Department Supervisor, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
wastes. Such structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Supervisor.
The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall
be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068 DESIGN DATA ON CONNECTION.
   (A)   The Sewer Department Supervisor may require a user of sewer services
to provide information needed to determine compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   These requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent
or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.069 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Sewer Department
Supervisor.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.070 SURCHARGE FOR ABNORMAL INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   General. Although the proposed sewage treatment works will be capable
of treating certain abnormal industrial wastes defined in this section, the
actual treatment of such wastes may increase the cost of operating and
maintaining the city’s publicly owned treatment works (“POTW”). Therefor, there
is hereby levied and assessed against each person, industry or corporation
discharging more than 10,000 gallons per month of such abnormal industrial
waste into the POTW, a surcharge, or surcharges, which are intended to cover
such additional cost to the City of Kingwood Sanitary Board (“KSB”). Said
surcharges shall be in addition to the regular sewerage service charge set
forth in this subchapter and shall be payable as hereinafter provided in the
amount thereinafter provided. ABNORMAL INDUSTRIAL WASTES is defined as any
industrial waste having a suspended solids concentration, a five-day
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or a chlorine requirement appreciably in excess
of that normally found in municipal sewage, which for this subchapter shall
mean any industrial waste containing more than 250 ppm of suspended solids or
five-day BOD or having a chlorine requirement in excess of 25 ppm, regardless
of whether or not it contains other substances in concentrations differing
appreciably from those normally in municipal sewage.
   (B)   Sampling. The strength of any industrial waste, the discharge of which
is to be subject to surcharge, shall be determined monthly, or more frequently,
from samples taken at a manhole or at any other sampling point mutually agreed
to by the KSB and the producer of said waste. The frequency and duration of the
sampling period shall be such as, in the opinion of the KSB, will permit a
reasonably reliable determination of the average water runoff. Representative
samples of the wastewater discharge shall be collected, by a representative of
the KSB, in proportion to the flow of waste, exclusive of stormwater runoff,
and composited for analysis in accordance with the current edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, as published by the
American Public Health Association. Upon request by the industrial user, the
KSB may split samples with the industrial user for its own analysis, but the
KSB’s results will be used for determining any applicable surcharges. Except as
hereinafter provided, the strength of the waste so found by analysis shall be
used for establishing the surcharge, or surcharges hereinafter provided for.
However, the KSB may, if it so elects, accept the results of routine sampling
and analysis by the producer of said wastes in lieu of making its own samplings
and analyses.
   (C)   Chlorine requirement.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste, the average volume of which
exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, is found by the KSB to have a chlorine
requirement in excess of 25 parts per million (25 ppm), the producer of said
waste shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual volume
of wastes in thousand gallons per billing period, exclusive of stormwater
runoff, discharged to the POTW and the chlorine requirement surcharge rate.
      (2)   The chlorine requirement surcharge rate shall be determined by the
following formula:
 
   Rc = 0.00834 Pc (C - 25)
Where:
R = the chlorine requirement surcharge rate in cents per thousand gallons of
waste discharged
Pc = the average cost of chlorine to the city in cents per pound
C = the average chlorine requirement of the industrial waste expressed in parts
per million (ppm) as determined in accordance with division (A) above
The figure 25 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum
chlorine requirement permissible without surcharge
The figure 0.00834 is the factor to convert parts per million to pounds per
thousand gallons. No discount will be permitted for sewage or industrial wastes
having a chlorine requirement of less than 25 parts per million
 
      (3)   It is recognized that the chlorine requirement of certain undiluted
chemical wastes may be difficult to determine because of excessive
concentrations of interfering substances. In such instances the waste may first
be diluted waste and the sewage used in making the dilution shall then be
allowed to stand at room temperature, approximately 68°F, for a period of not
less than two hours, or more than eight hours.
      (4)   The chlorine requirement of each shall then be determined and the
chlorine requirement of the undiluted waste computed by the following formula:
 
   C = M (V1 + V2) - SV2
Where:
C = the chlorine requirement of the waste to be used in the formula of division
(C)(2) above
M = the chlorine requirement of the mixed sewage and waste in parts per million
S = the chlorine requirement of the sewage used for dilution in parts per
million
V1 = the volume of waste used in the mixture
V2 = the volume of sewage used in the mixture
 
      (5)   In the application of this procedure the volumes of waste and
diluting sewage used shall be such that the ratio of to (V1 + V2) is
approximately equal to the ratio of the average daily flow of wastes in
question to the average daily flow of sewage entering the treatment works. This
procedure shall be used only in those instances where the KSB believes its use
to be necessary or desirable in order to determine the equitable chlorine
requirement surcharge rate.
      (6)   Since the above stipulated surcharge is only intended to compensate
the KSB for the additional cost of chlorinating abnormal industrial wastes, it
will only be applied during those periods when the KSB is actually using
chlorine. In the event the KSB used chlorine for only a portion of some given
billing period then the surcharge for that particular period, as computed in
accordance with this division (C), shall be reduced by the percentage of said
period during which no chlorine is used.
   (D)   Suspended solids concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste, the average volume of which
exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, is found by the KSB to have an average
suspended solid concentration in excess of 250 parts per million, the producer
of said waste shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual
volume of wastes in thousand gallons per billing period, exclusive of storm
runoff, discharged to the public sanitary sewerage system and the suspended
solids surcharge rate.
      (2)   The suspended solids surcharge rate shall be determined by the
following formula:
   Rs = 0.00834 x 0.80 x Ps (S - 250)
Where:
Rs = the suspended solids surcharge in dollars per thousand gallons of waste
discharged
Ps = the average annual cost of operating and maintaining the sludge dewatering
and disposal facilities at the treatment works, in dollars per pound of sewage
solids handled by those units (prior to completion of the first year of
operation the value of Ps shall be assumed to be $0.009)
S = the average suspended solids concentration of the abnormal industrial
waste, expressed in parts per million as determined in accordance with division
(A) above
The figure 250 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum
suspended solids concentration permissible without surcharge
The figure 0.80 appears in the formula because it is anticipated that the
average removal of suspended solids as a result of the proposed treatment
process will be about 80%
As before, the figure 0.00834 is the factor to convert parts per million to
pounds per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   No surcharge for excessive suspended solids will be applied until
the treatment works goes into actual operation. No discount will be permitted
for sewage or industrial wastes having a suspended solids concentration less
than 250 parts per million.
   (D)   BOD concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste, the average volume of which
exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, is found by the KSB to have an average BOD
concentration in excess of 250 parts per million, the producer of said waste
shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual volume of the
wastes in thousand gallons per billing period, exclusive of storm runoff,
discharge to public sanitary sewerage system and the BOD surcharge rate.
      (2)   The BOD surcharge rate shall be determined by the following
formula:
   RB = 0.00834 x 0.80 x PB(B - 250)
Where:
RB = the BOD surcharge rate in dollars per thousand gallons of waste discharge
PB = the average annual cost of operating and maintaining the preparation
tanks, RBC tanks, process air blowers and chlorination facilities at the
treatment plant in dollars per pound of BOD handled by those units (prior to
completion of the first year of operation the value of PB shall be assumed to
be 0.01)
B = the average BOD concentration of the abnormal industrial waste, expressed
in parts per million as determined in accordance with division (A) above
The figure 250 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum BOD
concentration permissible without surcharge
The figure 0.80 appears in the formula because it is anticipated that the
average removal of BOD as a result of the proposed treatment process will be
about 80%
As before, the figure 0.00834 is the factor to convert parts per million to
pounds per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   In the event that an industrial user is subject to both BOD and
chlorine requirements surcharges, the cost of the chlorination facilities will
be deleted from the formula above to prevent double charging for chlorine. No
surcharge for excessive BOD will be applied until the secondary treatment works
goes into actual operation. No discount will be permitted for sewage or
industrial wastes having a BOD concentration less than 250 parts per million.
      (4)   The surcharges provided for in this section will be added to the
normal sewerage service charge set forth in this subchapter. They will be
billed either monthly or quarterly and shall be subject to the delayed payment
penalty in this subchapter. However, no surcharges will be levied until the
secondary treatment works are placed in operation.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.071 DISCLAIMER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be constructed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial entity
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
POWER AND AUTHORITY OF SEWER BOARD SUPERVISOR
§ 52.085 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF DISCHARGE INSPECTION.
   The Sewer Department Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.086 COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.
   The Sewer Department Supervisor or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.087 REQUIRED SAFETY PROCEDURES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.085, the Sewer Department Supervisor or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.063.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.088 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO AND FROM ALL NEGOTIATED EASEMENTS.
   The Sewer Department Supervisor and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
SURFACE WATER
§ 52.100 SURFACE OR GROUND WATER SURCHARGE OVER AND ABOVE THE TARIFF CHARGES
FOR SANITARY SEWER DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Generally. Upon the utility having determined by smoke testing, dye
testing or on-site inspection that rain or surface water is being introduced
into the sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, the utility shall
send a letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by hand delivery,
advising the customer that the rain or surface water must be removed from the
sanitary sewer system within 90 days of receipt of the letter. An additional
amount shall be charged where surface or ground water is introduced into the
sanitary system where evidence of a violation exists. Said surcharge is
applicable only when said letter was received no later than 90 days prior to
December 1 of each year due to the inclement weather during the months between
December and March. Surcharge formula to be applied in cases where surface
drainage is connected to the utility’s sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Whenever the utility has discovered that a customer’s roof drain,
downspout, storm sewer or similar facilities conducting surface water have been
connected to the utility’s sewer system, and such customer has failed to take
appropriate action, within 90 days of receipt of a demand by the utility in
accordance with the rules of the Public Service Commission to eliminate such
connection, a surcharge will be imposed upon the customer calculated on the
basis of the following formula:
 
   S = A x R x .0006233 x C
S = The surcharge in dollars
A = The area under roof and/or the area of any other water collection surface
connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet
R = The measured monthly rainfall, in inches
.0006233 = A conversion factor to change inches of rain x square feet of
surface water to thousands of gallons of water
.0008333 = A conversion factor to change inches of rain x square feet of
surface water to $ per 100 cubic feet
C= The utility’s approved rate per thousand gallons of metered water usage
 
      (2)   The utility shall not impose the surcharge unless and until the
customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke testing, dye testing or
on-site inspection that rain or surface water is being introduced into the
sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, and that the customer has not
acted within 90 days from receipt of such notice to divert the water from the
sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month that
said condition continues to exist. The monthly rainfall used for said formula
shall be from the records maintained at the water and sewer plants and recorded
on a monthly basis. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or correct the situation
shall give rise to the possible termination of water service in accordance with
the rules of the Public Service Commission of the state.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM
§ 52.115 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limit to, ashes, bones,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, rags, toys, towels
and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
   (E)   Any roof drain, downspout, storm sewer or similar facilities
conducting surface and/or rain water.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.116 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   The discharge of non-sanitary waste, as described in §
52.115, into the system, whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited.
Following the receipt of a letter directing the customer to remove the non-
sanitary waste by the certified mail or hand delivery and 90 days have lapsed
and the discharge has not been corrected, such customer will be issued by a
citation from the Police Department and said fine will be set by the Municipal
Police Judge.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
ADDITIONAL ACTION
§ 52.130 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   The discharge of non-acceptable industrial wastes, as described in §
52.115, into the system, whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited.
A letter from the utility advising that the customer must immediately cease
said discharge shall be delivered by certified mail or by hand delivery to the
customer as set forth in §
52.116. The utility shall continue to monitor said discharge.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
RESTRICTED USE OF OTHER FORM OF SEWER SYSTEM
§ 52.145 OTHER FORMS OF SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   No individually owned septic system or septic tank nor multi-user septic
system nor any other form of sewage system and treatment plant, other than that
sewage system maintained by the city shall be permitted within the municipal
boundaries of the city, unless approved by the Sanitary Board of the city. Upon
application to the said Sanitary Board for use of a sewage system separate from
that maintained by the city, the Board shall determine if it can adequately
supply said sewage service to said applicant and only upon such a determination
that sewage service cannot be adequately provided shall the Sanitary Board
approve the installation and use of an individual septic tank or other multi-
user sewage system and treatment plant or any other form of sewage treatment
within the municipal boundaries. Notice of this provision shall be given to the
Department of Health verifying the requirement of the usage of the municipal
sewage system within said municipal boundaries.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
AMENDMENTS
§ 52.160 AMENDMENTS.
   The Council shall, upon an annual basis, or as deemed necessary from time to
time between annual review, review and cause to be enacted such amendments to
the sewer use subchapter as are necessary to bring the regulations into
compliance with applicable federal and state regulations and changes thereto.
All such amendments shall clearly delineate section to be altered or expanded.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.161 PRECEDENCE OF PAST AND PRESENT ORDINANCES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Council to review and render a
decision as to a precedence involving a present or past ordinance to insure
compliance with applicable statutes prior to rendering said precedence. Upon
resolution of the discrepancy and the precedence set an amendment to the sewer
use chapter shall be enacted as previously provided.
   (B)   Procedures shall be as outlined within this chapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
SEWER RATES GENERALLY
§ 52.175 ADMINISTRATION OF SEWER USE RATE.
   The municipality shall bill each customer individually for said sewer use
rate on a monthly billing schedule. The rate so charged is established by a
separate ordinance. The City Clerk of the municipality shall be responsible for
the monthly billing and for the collection of the monthly sewer use rate. The
City Clerk of said municipality shall be responsible for establishing a
separate account for said sewer use moneys and for depositing all collection
from said sewer use rate into said separate account. Said City Clerk shall
maintain said account and all records as may be necessary, and shall provide
the same for any audit by the State Auditor in accordance with audits of the
city.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.176 ENFORCEMENT OF SEWER USE RATE.
   (A)   There shall be an enforcement provision to provide for the collection
of said sewer use charge by the municipality. Said enforcement shall be in the
manner as provided by the State Public Service Commission for the termination
of sewer service for failure to timely pay for the use.
   (B)   The municipality shall further be authorized by this subchapter to
seek a judgment for any past due sewer rate charge against any person, firm or
corporation who has violated any provision of this chapter. Said judgment shall
be of suit filed in the Magistrate Court of the county or in other court of
competent jurisdiction or in the Circuit Court of Preston County, and shall be
collected in accordance with the laws of the state and the West Virginia Code,
as amended, in regard to obtaining judgement and enforcement of said judgement
in favor of the municipality.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.177 SURCHARGE FOR ABNORMAL INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   General. Although the proposed sewage treatment works will be capable
of treating certain abnormal industrial wastes defined in §
152.001, the actual treatment of such wastes may increase the cost of operating
and maintaining the city’s publicly owned treatment works (“POTW”). Therefor,
there is hereby levied and assessed against each person, industry or
corporation discharging more than 10,000 gallons per month of such abnormal
industrial waste into the POTW, a surcharge, or surcharges, which are intended
to cover such additional cost to the City of Kingwood Sanitary Board (“KSB”).
Said surcharges shall be in addition to the regular sewerage service charge set
forth in this subchapter and shall be payable as hereinafter provided in the
amount thereinafter provided. ABNORMAL INDUSTRIAL WASTES is defined as any
industrial waste having a suspended solids concentration, a five-day
biochemical oxygen demand (“BOD”) or a chlorine requirement appreciably in
excess of that normally found in municipal sewage, which for this subchapter
shall mean any industrial waste containing more than 250 ppm of suspended
solids or five-day BOD or having a chlorine requirement in excess of 25 ppm,
regardless of whether or not it contains other substances in concentrations
differing appreciably from those normally in municipal sewage.
   (B)   Sampling. The strength of any industrial waste, the discharge of which
is to be subject to surcharge, shall be determined monthly, or more frequently,
from samples taken at a manhole or at any other sampling point mutually agreed
to by the KSB and the producer of said waste. The frequency and duration of the
sampling period shall be such as, in the opinion of the KSB, will permit a
reasonably reliable determination of the average water runoff. Representative
samples of the wastewater discharge shall be collected, by a representative of
the KSB, in proportion to the flow of waste, exclusive of stormwater runoff,
and composited for analysis in accordance with the current edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, as published by the
American Public Health Association. Upon request by the industrial user, the
KSB may split samples with the industrial user for its own analysis, but the
KSB’s results will be used for determining any applicable surcharges. Except as
hereinafter provided, the strength of the waste so found by analysis shall be
used for establishing the surcharge, or surcharges hereinafter provided for.
However, the KSB may, if it so elects, accept the results of routine sampling
and analysis by the producer of said wastes in lieu of making its own samplings
and analyses.
   (C)   Chlorine requirement.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste, the average volume of which
exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, is found by the KSB to have a chlorine
requirement in excess of 25 parts per million (25 ppm),
the producer of said waste shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product
of the actual volume of wastes in thousand gallons per billing period,
exclusive of stormwater runoff, discharged to the POTW and the chlorine
requirement surcharge rate.
      (2)   The chlorine requirement surcharge rate shall be determined by the
following formula:
 
   Rc = 0.00834 Pc (C - 25)
Where:
R = the chlorine requirement surcharge rate in cents per thousand gallons of
waste discharged
Pc = the average cost of chlorine to the city in cents per pound
C = the average chlorine requirement of the industrial waste expressed in parts
per million (ppm) as determined in accordance with divisions (B) or (D) of this
section
The figure 25 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum
chlorine requirement permissible without surcharge
The figure 0.00834 is the factor to convert parts per million to pounds per
thousand gallons
 
      (3)   No discount will be permitted for sewage or industrial wastes
having a chlorine requirement of less than 25 parts per million.
   (D)   Difficulty in determining.
      (1)   It is recognized that the chlorine requirement of certain undiluted
chemical wastes may be difficult to determine because of excessive
concentrations of interfering substances. In such instances the waste may first
be diluted waste and the sewage used in making the dilution shall then be
allowed to stand at room temperature, approximately 68°F, for a period of not
less than two hours, or more than eight hours.
      (2)   The chlorine requirement of each shall then be determined and the
chlorine requirement of the undiluted waste computed by the following formula:
 
   C = M(V1+V2) - SV2
Where:
C = the chlorine requirement of the waste to be used in the formula of division
(C) above
M = the chlorine requirement of the mixed sewage and waste in parts per million
S = the chlorine requirement of the sewage used for dilution in parts per
million
V1 = the volume of waste used in the mixture
V2 = the volume of sewage used in the mixture
 
      (3)   In the application of this procedure the volumes of waste and
diluting sewage used shall be
such that the ratio of V1 to (V1 + V2) is approximately equal to the ratio of
the average daily flow of wastes in question to the average daily flow of
sewage entering the treatment works. This procedure shall be used only in those
instances where the KSB believes its use to be necessary or desirable in order
to determine the equitable chlorine requirement surcharge rate.
   (E)   Application. Since the above stipulated surcharge is only intended to
compensate the KSB for the additional cost of chlorinating abnormal industrial
wastes, it will only be applied during those periods when the KSB is actually
using chlorine. In the event the KSB used chlorine for only a portion of some
given billing period then the surcharge for that particular period, as computed
in accordance with division (C) or (D) above, shall be reduced by the
percentage of said period during which no chlorine is used.
   (F)   Suspended solids concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste, the average volume of which
exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, is found by the KSB to have an average
suspended solid concentration in excess of 250 parts per million, the producer
of said waste shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual
volume of wastes in thousand gallons per billing period, exclusive of storm
runoff, discharged to the public sanitary sewerage system and the suspended
solids surcharge rate.
      (2)   The suspended solids surcharge rate shall be determined by the
following formula:
   Rs = 0.00834 x 0.80 x Ps (S - 250)
Where
Rs = the suspended solids surcharge in dollars per thousand gallons of waste
discharged.
Ps = the average annual cost of operating and maintaining the sludge dewatering
and disposal facilities at the treatment works, in dollars per pound of sewage
solids handled by those units (prior to completion of the first year of
operation the value of Ps shall be assumed to be $0.009)
S = the average suspended solids concentration of the abnormal industrial
waste, expressed in parts per million as determined in accordance with division
(G) below
The figure 250 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum
suspended solids concentration permissible without surcharge
The figure 0.80 appears in the formula because it is anticipated that the
average removal of suspended solids as a result of the proposed treatment
process will be about 80%
As before, the figure 0.00834 is the factor to convert parts per million to
pounds per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   No surcharge for excessive suspended solids will be applied until
the treatment works goes into actual operation. No discount will be permitted
for sewage or industrial wastes having a suspended solids concentration less
than 250 parts per million.
   (G)   BOD concentration.
      (1)   In the event any industrial waste, the average volume of which
exceeds 10,000 gallons per month, is found by the KSB to have an average BOD
concentration in excess of 250 parts per million, the producer of said waste
shall be surcharged an amount equal to the product of the actual volume of the
wastes in thousand gallons per billing period, exclusive of storm runoff,
discharge to public sanitary sewerage system and the BOD surcharge rate.
      (2)   The BOD surcharge rate shall be determined by the following
formula:
   RB = 0.00834 x 0.80 x PB(B - 250)
Where:
RB = the BOD surcharge rate in dollars per thousand gallons of waste discharge
PB = the average annual cost of operating and maintaining the preparation
tanks, RBC tanks, process air blowers and chlorination facilities at the
treatment plant in dollars per pound of BOD handled by those units (prior to
completion of the first year of operation the value of PB shall be assumed to
be 0.01)
B = the average BOD concentration of the abnormal industrial waste, expressed
in parts per million as determined in accordance with division (B) above
The figure 250 appearing in the above formula corresponds to the maximum BOD
concentration permissible without surcharge
The figure 0.80 appears in the formula because it is anticipated that the
average removal of BOD as a result of the proposed treatment process will be
about 80%
As before, the figure 0.00834 is the factor to convert parts per million to
pounds per thousand gallons
 
      (3)   In the event that an industrial user is subject to both BOD and
chlorine requirements surcharges, the cost of the chlorination facilities will
be deleted from the formula above to prevent double charging for chlorine. No
surcharge for excessive BOD will be applied until the secondary treatment works
goes into actual operation. No discount will be permitted for sewage or
industrial wastes having a BOD concentration less than 250 parts per million.
   (H)   Surcharges. The surcharges provided for in this section will be added
to the normal sewerage service charge set forth in this subchapter. They will
be billed either monthly or quarterly and shall be subject to the delayed
payment penalty in this subchapter. However, no surcharges will be levied until
the secondary treatment works are placed in operation.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.178 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Being liquid organic waste materials not
containing toxic
or explosive elements or other substances injurious to sewers or sewage
treatment processes, which result from any commercial, manufacturing or
industrial operation or process.
   NON-ACCEPTABLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Being liquid wastes in which are
incorporated minerals, oil, acid, toxic metallic or chemical substances,
resulting from any commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or
process.
   NON-SANITARY WASTES. Being liquid wastes considered to be sanitary sewer
inflow or clean water discharges such as roof drains, basement foundation
drainage, garage and basement drains, sump pump effluent or any other non-
sanitary source or water, including what is commonly referred to as stormwater.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers, household laundries, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors,
refrigerator dips and drinking fountains, and any other water-borne waste not
constituting an industrial waste or stormwater.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.179 ADDITIONAL POLICE COURT ACTION.
   (A)   (1)   The discharge of non-acceptable industrial wastes, as described
above, into the system, whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited.
      (2)   A letter from the utility advising that the customer must
immediately cease said discharge shall be delivered by hand delivery to the
customer. The utility shall continue to monitor said discharge.
   (B)   The discharge of non-sanitary waste, as described in §
52.178, into the system, whether directly or indirectly, is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, se §
52.999
§ 52.180 RESTRICTIVE USE OF OTHER FORM OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   No individually owned septic system or septic tank nor multi-user septic
system nor any other form of sewage system and treatment plant, other than that
sewage system maintained by the city shall be permitted within the municipal
boundaries of the city, unless approved by the Sanitary Board of the city. Upon
application to the said Sanitary Board for use of a sewage system separate from
that maintained by the city, the Board shall determine if it can adequately
supply said sewage service to said applicant and only upon such a determination
that sewage service cannot be adequately provided shall the Sanitary Board
approve the installation and use of an individual septic tank or other multi-
user sewage system and treatment plant or any other form of sewage treatment
within the municipal boundaries. Notice of this provision shall be given to the
Department of Health verifying the requirement of the usage of the municipal
sewage system within said municipal boundaries.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.181 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limit to, ashes, bones,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, rags, toys, towels
and the like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 52.182 REQUIREMENTS IN REGARD TO USE OF SEWER.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors may be required to be installed by
the property owner, if in the opinion of the Sewer Department Supervisor, they
are necessary for the proper handling of wastes disposed into the system. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Supervisor and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In maintaining these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible
for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured
material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which
are subject to review by the Supervisor. The Supervisor and duly authorized
employees of the city shall be permitted to enter the building for observation
and sampling of waste. These requirements apply to all businesses, multi
dwelling complexes, apartments and individual residences, when necessary.
   (B)   The Sewer Department Supervisor shall give written notice to any
property owner and/or business that, in his or her opinion, has an interceptor
that needs pumped out. Such notice shall notify the property owner and/or
business that the interceptor must be cleaned out within seven days of the date
of the notice and that further the Supervisor shall be given notice of the date
and time of said pumping so that the Supervisor will be present to inspect the
work. Should the property owner and/or business fail to timely pump and clean
the interceptor and a period of 30 days shall have passed since the written
notice was given, the Sewer Board may request that the city waterworks
terminate the water service to said property or business due to a health hazard
issue. The property owner and/or business would be responsible for all fines
and costs incurred in getting the water service restored.
   (C)   Any person, corporation or organization violating any provisions of
this subchapter shall become liable to the City Sewer Department for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation.
Should any person, corporation or organization fail to pay costs incurred in
making repairs, he, she or it will be subject to enforcement through filing of
legal action through the court system or for repeated failure to make necessary
changes shall be subject to being disconnected from the sewer system.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In §
52.039, the Police Court Judge of said municipality shall hear the case
presented against the person, firm or corporation violating §
52.039, and said violator shall have the opportunity to present his or her
defense of said case on the date of the hearing as previously set within the
notice heretofore mailed. Upon the Police Court Judge finding that the persons,
firm or corporation have violated this chapter, a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $175 shall be imposed. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist beyond 60 days from the date of the original mailing of the sewer rate
billing shall constitute a separate offense of this chapter.
   (B)   In §
52.065, should the property owner and/or business fail to have the interceptor
pumped in a timely manner after receiving the written notice, the said property
owner and/or business shall be cited by the Police Department with a violation
of this chapter and may be fined up to $100 per day until said interceptor is
properly pumped and cleaned. Such violation will be issued by a citation from
the Police Department and said fine will be set by the Municipal Police Judge.
   (C)   Any person, business, firm, limited liability company, corporation,
partnership or association who shall violate the provisions of §
52.116 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof or
by a plea of guilty thereto, shall be punished by a fine or not less than $10
nor more than $100. The continued failure or refusal of such convicted person,
business, firm, limited liability company, corporation, partnership or
association, to make the alterations necessary to prevent such discharge, shall
constitute a separate, distinct and additional offense for each 24-hour period
of such failure or refusal, and upon conviction thereof, or by a pleas of
guilty thereto, the violator shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$100 for each such conviction or plea of guilty. This provision shall only be
applicable during the months of March through November of each year due to the
inability to make corrections to storm drains during the winter months.
   (D)   Any person, business, firm, limited liability company, corporation,
partnership, or association who, shall violate the provisions of §
52.130, after being hand delivered notice to cease said discharge, and who has
allowed said discharge to continue for a period exceeding 120 days from receipt
of the utility letter, will be issued a citation from the Police Department
citing §
52.130 and said fine will be set by the Municipal Police Judge. Said customer
in violation of §
52.130 as herein set forth shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof or by a plea of guilty thereto, shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $25 nor more than $500. The continued failure or refusal of
such convicted person, firm, corporation, partnership or association to make
such alterations necessary to prevent such discharge, shall constitute a
separate, distinct and additional offense for each 24-hour period of such
failure or refusal, and upon conviction thereof or by a plea of guilty thereto,
the violator shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each such
conviction or plea of guilty. This provision shall only be applicable during
the months of March through November of each year due to the inability to make
corrections to storm drains during the winter months.
   (E)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association who,
shall violate the provisions of §
52.179(A), after being hand delivered notice to cease said discharge, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof or by a plea of
guilty thereto, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than
$500. The continued failure or refusal of such convicted person, firm,
corporation, partnership or association, to make such alterations necessary to
prevent such discharge, shall constitute a separate, distinct and additional
offense for each 24-hour period of such failure or refusal, and upon conviction
thereof or by a plea of guilty thereto, the violator shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500 for each such conviction or plea of guilty.
      (2)   Following the receipt of the letter directing the customer to
remove the rain or surface water by the certified mail or hand delivery and 90
days have lapsed and the discharge has not been corrected, any person, firm,
corporation, partnership or association who shall violate the provisions of §
52.179(B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
or by a plea of guilty thereto, shall be punished by a fine or not less than
$10 nor more than $100. The continued failure or refusal of such convicted
person, firm, corporation, partnership or association, to make the alterations
necessary to prevent such discharge, shall constitute a separate, distinct and
additional offense for each 24-hour period of such failure or refusal, and upon
conviction thereof or by a pleas of guilty thereto, the violator shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each such conviction or plea of
guilty. This provision shall only be applicable during the months of March
through November of each year due to the inability to make corrections to storm
drains during the winter months.
   (F)   Should the property owner and/or business fail to have the interceptor
pumped in a timely manner after receiving the written notice, the said property
owner and/or business shall be cited with a violation of §
52.182 and may be fined up to $100 per day until said interceptor is properly
pumped and cleaned. Such violation will be issued by a citation from the Police
Department and said fine will be set by the Municipal Police Judge.
(Ord. 25, passed 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Authority
   
53.03   Responsibility
   
53.04   Definitions
   
53.05   Administration
   
53.06   Requirements
   
53.07   Degree of hazard
   
53.08   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
53.09   Periodic testing
   
53.10   Backflow prevention assemblies
   
53.11   Records
   
53.12   Types of facilities requiring inspection
   
53.13   Partial list of plumbing hazards
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To protect the public potable water supply served by the city from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating, within its customers
internal distribution system, such contaminants or pollutants which could
backflow or back-siphon into the public water system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between its customers in-plant potable water system and
nonpotable systems; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems by cross-connection.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   By the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§
300f et seq. and W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 1 and public health laws, State
Bureau for Public Health Chapter 1, Article 5B, the water purveyor has the
primary responsibility for preventing water from unapproved sources, or any
other substances, from entering the public potable water system.
   (B)   The city rules and regulations are adopted.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The water purveyor shall be responsible for the protection of the public
potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the
backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. If, in the judgement of the water purveyor, an approved
backflow device is required at the water service connection to any customer’s
premises, the water purveyor, or his or her delegated agent, shall give notice
in writing to said customer to install an approved backflow prevention device
at each service connection to his or her premises. The customer shall, within
90 days, install such approved device, or devices, at his or her own expense,
and failure or refusal, or inability on the part of the customer to install
said device or devices within 90 days, shall constitute a ground for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices have
been properly installed.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the water purveyor as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this chapter, or as suitable for the proposed
purpose.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply, on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances, under
positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a potable water
supply from any source other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means designed to prevent backflow or back-
siphonage. Most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced pressure principle
device, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker, atmospheric
vacuum breaker, hose bibb vacuum breaker, residential dual check, double check
with intermediate atmospheric vent and barometric loop.
      (1)   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow
between the free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any
other system. Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of
the supply side pipe diameter but never less than one inch.
      (2)   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents back-siphonage
by creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or
sub-atmospheric pressure in a water system.
      (3)   BAROMETRIC LOOP. A fabricated piping arrangement rising at least 35
feet at its topmost point above the highest fixture it supplies. It is utilized
in water supply systems to protect against back-siphonage.
      (4)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently
operating spring loaded check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on
each side of the check valves, and properly located test cocks for the testing
of each check valve.
      (5)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device
having two spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
      (6)   HOSE BIBB VACUUM BREAKER. A device which is permanently attached to
a hose bibb and which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
      (7)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device containing one or two
independently operated spring loaded check valves and an independently operated
spring loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check or
checks. The device includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the
check valves and properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valve
(s).
      (8)   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly
consisting of two independently operating approved check valves with an
automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two check
valves, tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check valves plus
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief
valve.
      (9)   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK. An assembly of two spring loaded,
independently operating check valves without tightly closing shut-off valves
and test cocks. Generally employed immediately downstream of the water meter to
act as a containment device.
   BACKPRESSURE. A condition in which the owner’s system pressure is greater
than the suppliers system pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure in
the potable water supply system.
   CONTAINMENT. A method of backflow prevention which requires a backflow
prevention device at the water service entrance.
   CONTAMINANT. A substance that will impair the quality of the water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection between the public
water supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
   FIXTURE ISOLATION. A method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
preventer is located to correct a cross-connection at an in-plant location
rather than at a water service entrance.
   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate or reside
in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or upon
which a cross-connection is present.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private corporation,
political subdivision or agency of the State Department, agency or
instrumentality or the United States or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. A foreign substance, which if permitted to get into the public
water system, will degrade its quality so as to constitute a moderate hazard,
or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not
create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The Municipal Water Department, Water Board, Public Service
District or other administrative authority invested with the authority and
responsibility for the implementation of a cross-connection control program and
for the enforcement of the provisions of the chapter.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. The point in the owner’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the water purveyor, generally considered to be the outlet
end of the water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
   WEST VIRGINIA BUREAU FOR PUBLIC HEALTH (WVBPH). The State of West Virginia
Bureau for Public Health.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The water purveyor will operate a cross-connection control program, to
include the keeping of necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of
the WVBPH Cross-Connections and Backflow Prevention Regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall allow his or her property to be inspected for possible
cross-connections and shall follow the provisions of the water purveyor’s
program and the WVBPH Regulations if a cross-connection is permitted.
   (C)   If the water purveyor requires that the public supply be protected by
containment, the owner shall be responsible for water quality beyond the outlet
end of the containment device and should utilize fixture outlet protection for
that purpose. He or she may utilize local public health officials, or personnel
from the water purveyor, or their designated representatives, to assist him or
her in the survey of his or her facilities and to assist him or her in the
selection of proper fixture outlet devices, and the proper installation of
these devices.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water purveyor.
      (1)   On new installations, the water purveyor will provide on-site
evaluation and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of
backflow preventer, if any, that will be required and will perform inspection
and testing.
      (2)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the water
purveyor will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises and
inform the owner by letter of any corrective action deemed necessary, the
method of achieving the correction and the time allowed for the correction to
be made. Ordinarily, 90 days will be allowed. However, this time period maybe
shortened depending upon the degree of hazard involved and the history of the
device(s) in questions.
      (3)   The water purveyor will not allow any cross-connection to remain
unless it is protected by an approved backflow preventer which will be
regularly tested to ensure satisfactory operation.
      (4)   The water purveyor shall inform the owner by letter, of any failure
to comply, by the time of the first re-inspection. The purveyor will allow an
additional 15 days for the correction. In the event the owner fails to comply
with the necessary correction by the time of the second re-inspection, the
water purveyor will inform the owner by letter, that the water service to the
owner’s premises will be terminated within a period not to exceed five days. In
the event that the owner informs the water purveyor of extenuating
circumstances as to why the correction has not been made, a time extension may
be granted by the water purveyor, but in no case will exceed an additional 30
days.
      (5)   If the water purveyor determines at any time that a serious threat
to the public health exists, the water service will be terminated immediately.
      (6)   The purveyor will begin initial premises inspections to determine
the nature of existing or potential hazards. Initial focus will be on high
hazard industries and commercial premises.
   (B)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or protection of
all cross-connections on his or her premises.
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the water
purveyor, shall at his or her expense, install, maintain and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventers on his or her premises.
      (3)   The customer shall correct any malfunction of the backflow
preventer which is revealed by testing every 12 months.
      (4)   The owner shall inform the purveyor of any proposed or modified
cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the owner is
aware, but have not been found by the water purveyor.
      (5)   The owner shall not install a bypass around any backflow preventer
unless there is a backflow preventer of the same type on the bypass. Owners who
cannot shut down operation for testing of the device(s) must supply additional
devices necessary to allow testing to take place.
      (6)   The owner shall install backflow preventers in a manner approved by
the water purveyor.
      (7)   The owner shall install only backflow preventers approved by the
water purveyor or the WVBPH.
      (8)   Any owner having a private well or other private water source must
have the approval of the water purveyor and the WVBPH if the well or source is
cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system. Permission to cross-connect may
be denied. The owner may be required to install a backflow preventer at the
service entrance if a private water source is maintained, even if it is not
cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system.
      (9)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the water purveyor’s side of the backflow
preventer, such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer installed.
      (10)   The owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
permits, annual or semi-annual device testing, retesting in the case that the
device fails to operate correctly, and second re-inspections for noncompliance
with water purveyor or WVBPH requirements.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The water purveyor recognizes the threat to the public water system arising
from cross-connections. All threats will be classified by degree of hazard and
will require the installation of approved backflow prevention device.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow preventer shall be allowed by the water purveyor to
continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the
effectiveness of the present backflow preventer, or result in an unreasonable
risk to the public health. Where the degree of hazard has increased, as in the
case of a residential installation converting to a business establishment, any
existing backflow preventer must be upgraded to a reduced pressure principle
device, or a reduced pressure principle device must be installed in the event
that no backflow device is present.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.09 PERIODIC TESTING.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices shall be tested and inspected every 12
months.
   (B)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a WVBPH certified tester. This
testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will be
repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the
repair, the device will be retested at owner’s expense to ensure correct
operation. High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue unprotected
if the backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately. In
other situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test
date will be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair
tools or a replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an
effective means of the owner ensuring that uninterrupted water service during
testing or repair of devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires
such continuity.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (A) above, in cases where there is a history of test
failures and the water purveyor feels that due to the degree of hazard
involved, additional testing is warranted. Cost of the additional tests will be
born by the owner.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.10 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention assembly required by these rules must be
installed at a location and in a manner as determined by the public water so as
to facilitate testing and servicing.
   (B)   Any backflow prevention assembly required by these rules shall be
tested at the time of installation and every 12 months thereafter.
   (C)   Backflow prevention assembly may be required to be tested more
frequently by the supplier of water.
   (D)   Any backflow prevention assembly required by these rules shall be
purchased, installed, maintained and tested at the expense of the water
customer.
   (E)   All testing of a backflow prevention assembly shall be performed at
such intervals and in such manner as may be required by the supplier of water.
   (F)   A State Bureau for Public Health certified backflow prevention
assembly tester shall perform the tests.
   (G)   A reduced pressure backflow prevention assembly shall not be installed
in a pit or vault.
   (H)   The water customer shall keep records of such tests and a copy
provided to the supplier of water.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.11 RECORDS.
   (A)   The water purveyor will initiate and maintain the following:
      (1)   Master files on customer cross-connections;
      (2)   Master files on customer cross-connection tests and/or inspections;
and
      (3)   Copies of lists and summaries supplied to the WVBPH.
   (B)   Upon request, the water purveyor will submit records of inspection,
surveys, tests or corrective actions to the State Bureau for Public Health.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.12 TYPES OF FACILITIES REQUIRING INSPECTION.
   (A)   The following is a partial list of facilities that may require
inspection for the existence of cross-connections and appropriate backflow
prevention devices.
   (B)   These types of facilities have historically posed a threat to the
public water supply due to the presence of cross-connections.
      (1)   Industries.
         (a)   Automotive manufacturing plants;
         (b)   Chemical, plating, processing plants, chemical tank car cleaning
facilities;
         (c)   Breweries, bottling plants;
         (d)   Canneries, packing houses, meat processing operations;
         (e)   Dairy processing operations;
         (f)   Photographic developing laboratories;
         (g)   Research laboratories;
         (h)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission operations; and
         (i)   Power plants.
      (2)   Commercial establishments.
         (a)   Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitariums, nursing or
convalescent homes, clinics, dentist offices;
         (b)   Mortuaries, morgues, funeral homes;
         (c)   Refrigeration or cold storage plants;
         (d)   Laundries, dry cleaning operations;
         (e)   Car washes;
         (f)   Grain elevators;
         (g)   Restaurants, taverns;
         (h)   Beauty salons, barber shops;
         (i)   Greenhouses; and
         (j)   Marinas.
      (3)   Other.
         (a)   Schools, churches;
         (b)   Parks;
         (c)   Golf courses (lawn sprinkling systems);
         (d)   Cemeteries (lawn sprinkling systems);
         (e)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage lift stations;
         (f)   Water treatment plants;
         (g)   Private homes with wells, swimming pools, lawn sprinkling
systems; and
         (h)   Apartment complexes.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
§ 53.13 PARTIAL LIST OF PLUMBING HAZARDS.
   (A)   The following is a partial list of hazards that should be looked for
and that may be encountered during inspections and surveys of facilities.
   (B)   The presence of any of these and other fixtures should be used to
determine the degree of hazard present at a facility and the type of backflow
prevention device required.
      (1)   Fixtures with direct connections.
         (a)   Air conditioning, air washer;
         (b)   Air conditioning, chilled water;
         (c)   Air conditioning, condenser water;
         (d)   Air line;
         (e)   Aspirator, laboratory;
         (f)   Aspirator, medical;
         (g)   Aspirator, herbicide and fertilizer sprayer;
         (h)   Autoclave and sterilizer;
         (i)   Auxiliary system, industrial;
         (j)   Auxiliary system, surface water;
         (k)   Auxiliary system, unapproved well supply;
         (l)   Boiler system;
         (m)   Chemical feeder, pot-type;
         (n)   Chlorinator;
         (o)   Coffee urn;
         (p)   Cooling system;
         (q)   Dishwasher;
         (r)   Fire standpipe or sprinkler system;
         (s)   Fountain, ornamental;
         (t)   Hydraulic equipment;
         (u)   Laboratory equipment;
         (v)   Lubrication, pump bearings;
         (w)   Photostat equipment;
         (x)   Plumber’s friend, pneumatic;
         (y)   Pump, pneumatic ejector;
         (z)   Pump, prime line;
         (aa)   Pump, water operated ejector;
         (bb)   Sewer, sanitary;
         (cc)   Sewer, storm; and
         (dd)   Swimming pool.
      (2)   Fixture with submerged inlets.
         (a)   Baptismal fount;
         (b)   Bathtub;
         (c)   Bedpan washer, flushing rim;
         (d)   Bidet;
         (e)   Brine tank;
         (f)   Cooling tower;
         (g)   Cuspidor;
         (h)   Drinking fountain;
         (i)   Floor drain, flushing rim;
         (j)   Garbage can washer;
         (k)   Ice maker;
         (l)   Laboratory sink, serrated nozzle;
         (m)   Laundry machine;
         (n)   Lavatory;
         (o)   Lawn sprinkler system;
         (p)   Photo laboratory sink;
         (q)   Sewer flushing manhole;
         (r)   Slop sink, flushing rim;
         (s)   Slop sink, threaded supply;
         (t)   Steam table;
         (u)   Urinal, siphon jet blowout;
         (v)   Vegetable peeler;
         (w)   Water closet, flush tank, ball cock; and
         (x)   Water closet, flush valve, siphon jet.
(Ord. passed 5-26-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   EQUIPMENT
      
74.   LOADS
      
75.   LICENSING AND REGISTRATION
      
76.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
77.   PEDESTRIANS
      
78.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
79.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Definitions
   
70.01   Meaning of words
   
70.02   Definitions
Accidents
   
70.15   Immediate report of accidents
   
70.16   When driver unable to report
   
70.17   Garages to report bullet damage
Enforcement
   
70.30   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.31   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
70.32   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
70.33   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
70.34   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.35   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
DEFINITIONS
§ 70.01 MEANING OF WORDS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this Traffic Code shall, for
the purpose of this Traffic Code, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this title.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, state, county or
municipal agency and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers,
flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles,
service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow
removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of
members of ambulance services, and Class A vehicles of members of duly
chartered rescue squads, and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by
the agency responsible for the operation and control of these persons or
organizations. CLASS A VEHICLES are as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1.
AGENCY AUTHORIZATION AND EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT are defined in W. Va. Code § 17C-
15-26. Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle
permits may promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of
permits for emergency vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-6)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use
for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both
sides of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
   CROSSWALK. Includes:
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE or EPAMD. A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
   INTERSECTION. Includes:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by
an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the
event such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways
shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-42)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
this Traffic Code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or
rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5a)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
   PASSENGER VAN. Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business
or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of
children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus or school bus. PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to,
vehicles used by daycare centers, after-school centers and nursery schools;
provided, that the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard to the
manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-22)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences, or residences and buildings, in use for business.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as
used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such
roadways collectively.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation or athletic events while
attending school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and
when stop signs are erected as provided in this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
   TRAFFIC -CONTROL DEVICES. Any sign, signal marking and device not
inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or nonmotorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
ACCIDENTS
§ 70.15 IMMEDIATE REPORT OF ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $500 or
more shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication, whether oral or
written, give notice of such accident to the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate report of an accident as required in §
70.16 and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident
capable of making a report, such occupant shall make or cause to be made such
report not made by the driver.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-8) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.17 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet, shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-12) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.30 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.31 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this Traffic Code relating to the operation of
vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and
highways except where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section.
   (B)   The provisions of this Traffic Code except §§
74.01 through
74.05 shall apply upon streets and highways as defined in §
70.02.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.32 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (B)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.33 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state or any county,
municipality, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this Traffic Code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Traffic
Code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.34 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (B)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
73.31 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (C)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.35 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Traffic Code, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code
for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $100; upon
a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than
$200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than
$500.
   (B)   Accidents.
      (1)   See division (A) above for the Traffic Code general penalty.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.15 after being involved in an accident resulting in physical injury but not
death to any person shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or fined not
more than $1,000, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
71.02   Obedience to traffic-control instructions at street construction
   
71.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights
   
71.04   Pedestrian control signals
   
71.05   Flashing traffic signals
   
71.06   Unauthorized sign and signals; hiding from view; advertising
   
71.07   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices
   
71.08   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
   (B)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic-control devices, act as
flaggers or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4a) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)    Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under
§
72.146, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone except as provided in division (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that Council
may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal at
any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at
such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at such
intersection, except that Council may by ordinance prohibit any such left turn
against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall be
effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Applicable. In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected
and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 71.04 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 71.06 UNAUTHORIZED SIGN AND SIGNALS; HIDING FROM VIEW; ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain or display upon or
in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic-control device or
traffic-control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic-control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-8) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 71.07 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to, or in fact, alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-9) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   At each and every location where street or highway construction work
is to be conducted, a sign shall be posted at least 1,000 feet from the
construction site, or as close to 1,000 feet from the construction site as is
practicable given the location of the site when workers are present, notifying
all motorists as to the speed limit and displaying the words “construction
work”.
   (B)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (A) above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this Traffic Code for such violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4b) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99(A).
   (B)   (1)   Generally. Whoever violates §§
71.01,
71.02 or
71.04 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Construction zones.
         (a)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.08 by less than 15 mph shall be fined not more than $200.
         (b)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.08 by 15 mph or more shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 20 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.002   Backing a vehicle
   
72.003   Driver’s view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
72.004   Passengers in seat with operator
   
72.005   Passengers on running boards
   
72.006   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.007   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.008   Driving over fire hose
   
72.009   Funeral processions
   
72.010   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
72.011   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
72.012   Unlawful riding
   
72.013   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noise
   
72.014   Taking, injuring or tampering with vehicle
   
72.015   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn or curb
   
72.016   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic-control devices
   
72.017   Coasting prohibited
   
72.018   Driving through safety zone
   
72.019   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
72.020   Obstruction of traffic
   
72.021   Vehicle security
   
72.022   Vehicle regulations on park property
   
72.023   Motorized scooters
Manner of Driving
   
72.035   Driving under the influence
   
72.036   Reckless driving
   
72.037   Hazardous driving
Speed Regulations
   
72.050   Maximum speed limits
   
72.051   Slow speed
   
72.052   Special speed limitations
   
72.053   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
Driving Regulations
   
72.065   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
72.066   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
72.067   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
72.068   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
72.069   Overtaking; passing left of center
   
72.070   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.071   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
72.072   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.073   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
72.074   Following too closely
   
72.075   Driving upon divided roadways
   
72.076   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
Turning
   
72.090   Conformity with provisions required
   
72.091   Right turns
   
72.092   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
72.093   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
72.094   Specified turns at intersections
   
72.095   “U” turns restricted
Signals
   
72.110   Starting vehicle
   
72.111   Signals before changing course; turning or stopping
   
72.112   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
72.113   Hand and arm signals
Rights-of-Way
   
72.125   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.126   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.127   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
72.128   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
72.129   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
72.130   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
Grades
   
72.145   Driving across grade crossing
   
72.146   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
72.147   Stopping at grade crossing
   
72.148   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
Stopping
   
72.160   Through streets and stop intersections
   
72.161   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
72.162   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
72.163   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
72.164   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
 
   
72.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
sit unattended on public, commercial or private property, without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key and effectively
setting the brake thereon, and when standing upon any grade, turning the front
wheels to the side, such as to the curb or side of a street or highway.
   (B)   A written warning shall be given for the first offense on private
property, but no such written warning is required for violations on public or
commercial property.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 DRIVER’S VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.004 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons, including the operator, shall ride or be
permitted by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor
vehicle while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways
of this municipality; provided, however, that the limitation of this section
shall not apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for
the occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.005 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   No passenger shall ride, nor shall the operator permit, any passenger to
ride on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being
operated on the streets or highways of this municipality.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.006 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, may not
follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm
or other emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm or other emergency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.007 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (A)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (B)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any nondivided highway or street and 25
mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if changing lanes
would be impossible or unsafe.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.008 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-10) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.009 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. The same meaning as set forth
in W. Va. Code § 30-6-4.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or non-law
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery or other location
at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held, including a
funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (B)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic-control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (B)(3) below, shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a funeral
escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic-control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic-control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic-control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         (b)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         (c)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (C)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (D)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury or property damage
suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession may
not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment or his, her or
its employees or agents unless the death, personal injury or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment or his, her or its employees or agents.
   (E)   Equipment.
      (1)   All non-law enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral lead
vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing lamp
exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens.
      (2)   Flashing amber or purple lights may be used when such vehicles are
used in a funeral procession.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-23) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.010 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.011 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.012 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.013 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISE.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.014 TAKING, INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without consent
of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner of his
or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the vehicle. The
consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall not in any
case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a previous
occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a different
person. Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in any such unauthorized taking or driving, shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-4)
   (B)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
   (C)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.015 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN OR CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway, or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.016 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No driver shall leave the roadway and enter upon a public or private lot,
street or any other property to avoid a traffic-control device.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.017 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.018 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.019 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or any part
thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.020 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand or park any motor vehicle on any street
or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free flow of
motor vehicle traffic except in compliance with a lawful order of a police
officer or in compliance with a traffic-control sign, signal or marking.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.021 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code § 17D-2A, and no person shall knowingly
drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor vehicle upon
which security is required by such section unless the security is provided, and
violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17D-2A including failure to
have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall constitute a violation
under this section.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.022 VEHICLE REGULATIONS ON PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The City of Kingwood Park and Recreation Board.
      VEHICLE. Any automobile, motorcycle, bicycle or any other form of
mechanical transportation.
   (B)   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or propelled,
along or over any roadway or other property under the supervision of the Board
at a greater rate of speed than 15 mph.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on any roadway or on any other
property within park areas under the supervision of the Board, except as
designated parking areas. No vehicle shall be parked or stopped on unpaved
areas within the park areas or on areas of the roadway designated for travel of
vehicles or on paved areas not designated for parking, except on occasion when
such area is specifically designated as a parking or driving area, whichever
applies, by the Board or the city.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.023 MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTORIZED SCOOTERS. A scooter that is powered by a gasoline or electric
motor.
   (B)   Prohibited acts; exemptions.
      (1)   The riding, operation or other use of motorized scooters for
transportation or recreational purposes, within or upon the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, parking lots, and other property owned, leased or controlled by the
city and any of its boards, authorities or commissions is prohibited, unless
the person using such motorized scooter has a valid driver’s license under the
provisions of the West Virginia Code.
      (2)   It shall not be an offense for a motorized scooter to be operated
upon a designated parade route, when such person is a duly registered and
recognized participant in any properly permitted parade, provided that such
operation occurs in conjunction with said parade.
      (3)   The federal government, the state and the city are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
      (4)   The provisions of this section does not apply to an electric
personal assistive mobility device as defined in §
77.09 and as operated by a mobility impaired person as defined in §
70.02 of this code of ordinances.
      (5)   Any licensed driver permitted to operate a motorized scooter, under
this section, shall comply with the required safety equipment set forth in §
73.55.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
MANNER OF DRIVING
§ 72.035 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Any person who:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight.
      (2)   While driving does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform any
duty imposed by law in the driving of the vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes the death of any person within one year next following the
act or failure, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be confined in jail for not less than 30 days nor more than one year and shall
be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000.
   (B)   Any person who:
      (1)    Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight.
      (2)   While driving does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform any
duty imposed by law in the driving of the vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than himself or herself,
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in
jail for not less than one day nor more than 30 days, which jail term is to
include actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not
less than $200 nor more than $1,000.
   (C)   Any person who:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight, but less than 0.15%, by weight.
      (2)   Is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for up to 30 days and shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (C) shall receive
credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for
the subject offense.
   (D)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this state while he or she has an
alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.15% or more, by weight, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail
for not less than two days nor more than 30 days, which jail term is to include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$200 nor more than $1,000. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (D)
shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
   (E)   Any person who, being an habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamine or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle in this state is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for
not less than one day nor more than 30 days, which jail term is to include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (F) shall
receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
   (F)   Any person who:
      (1)   Knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in this state by
any other person who:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; and
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight.
      (2)   Is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not more than 30 days and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500.
   (G)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
this state by any other person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamine or any derivative thereof is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than 30 days and
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (H)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle in this
state while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.02%
or more, by weight, but less than 0.08%, by weight, for a first offense under
this division (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. For a second or subsequent
offense under this division (H), the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for 24 hours and shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person who is charged with a
first offense under the provisions of this division (H) may move for a
continuance of the proceedings, from time to time, to allow the person to
participate in the motor vehicle alcohol test and lock program as provided in
W. Va. Code Art. 5A, § 3A. Upon successful completion of the program, the court
shall dismiss the charge against the person and expunge the person’s record as
it relates to the alleged offense. In the event the person fails to
successfully complete the program, the court shall proceed to an adjudication
of the alleged offense. A motion for a continuance under this division (H) may
not be construed as an admission or be used as evidence. A person arrested and
charged with an offense under the provisions of this division (H) or divisions
(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F) or (G) above may not also be charged with an
offense under this division (H) arising out of the same transaction or
occurrence.
   (I)   Any person who:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in this state while he or she:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight.
      (2)   The person while driving has on or within the motor vehicle one or
more other persons who are unemancipated minors who have not reached their
sixteenth birthday is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in jail for not less than two days nor more than 30 days,
which jail term is to include actual confinement of not less than 48 hours and
shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $1,000.
   (J)   (1)   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment or
information for a second or subsequent offense under, this section if the
person has been previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this
section which is alleged to have occurred within the applicable time period for
prior offenses, notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final
adjudication of the charges for the alleged previous offense, In that case, the
warrant or indictment or information must set forth the date, location and
particulars of the previous offense or offenses.
      (2)   No person may be convicted of a second or subsequent offense under
this section unless the conviction for the previous offense has become final.
   (K)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of divisions (A),
(B), (C), (D), (E) or (F) above, or any person permitted to drive as described
under divisions (G) or (H) above, is or has been legally entitled to use
alcohol, a controlled substance or a drug does not constitute a defense against
any charge of violating divisions (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G) or (H)
above.
   (L)   For purposes of this section, the term CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the
meaning ascribed to it in W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
   (M)   (1)   The sentences provided in this section upon conviction for a
violation of this section are mandatory and are not subject to suspension or
probation; provided, that the court may apply the provisions W. Va. Code Ch.
62, Art. 11A to a person sentenced or committed to a term of one year or less
for a first offense under this section. An order for home detention by the
court pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 62, Art. 11B may be used as
an alternative sentence to any period of incarceration required by this section
for a first or subsequent offense; provided, however, that for any period of
home incarceration ordered for a person convicted of a second offense under
this section, electronic monitoring shall be required for no fewer than five
days of the total period of home confinement ordered and the offender may not
leave home for those five days notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code
Ch. 62, Art. 11B, § 5; provided further, that for any period of home
incarceration ordered for a person convicted of a third or subsequent violation
of this section, electronic monitoring shall be included for no fewer than ten
days of the total period of home confinement ordered and the offender may not
leave home for those ten days notwithstanding W. Va. Code Ch. 62, Art. 11B, §
5.
      (2)   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment or information
for a second or subsequent offense under this section, if the person has been
previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this section which is
alleged to have occurred within the applicable time periods for prior offenses,
notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final adjudication of the
charges for the alleged previous offense. In such case, the warrant or
indictment or information must set forth the date, location and particulars of
the previous offense or offenses. No person may be convicted of a second or
subsequent offense under this section unless the conviction for the previous
offense has become final.
   (N)   For purposes of this section, the phrase IN THIS MUNICIPALITY means
anywhere within the physical boundaries of this municipality, including, but
not limited to, publicly maintained streets and highways, and subdivision
streets or other areas not publicly maintained but nonetheless open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   (O)   When used in this section, the terms or phrases DRIVING UNDER THE
INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR, DRIVING OR OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE
INTOXICATED, FOR ANY PERSON WHO IS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR
TO DRIVE ANY VEHICLE or any similar term or phrase shall be construed to mean
and be synonymous with the term or phrase “while under the influence of
alcohol. . . drives a vehicle” as the latter term or phrase is used in this
section.
   (P)   A warrant or indictment which charges or alleges an offense,
prohibited by the provisions of this section, and which warrant or indictment
uses any of the terms or phrases set forth in division (O) above, shall not
thereby be fatally defective if such warrant or indictment otherwise informs
the person so accused of the charges against him or her.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 72.036 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property
of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and
public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.037 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 72.050 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards.
      (2)   In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the
streets and highways in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   (1)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
division (B) or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful:
         (a)   Fifteen mph in a school zone during school recess or while
children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours. A
SCHOOL ZONE is all school property including school grounds and any street or
highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street
or highway from the school grounds. Such speed restriction does not apply to
vehicles traveling on a controlled-access highway which is separated from the
school or school grounds by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of
Highways;
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any business or residence district; and
         (c)   Fifty-five mph on open country highways; except as otherwise
provided by this title.
      (2)   The speeds set forth in this section may be altered as authorized
in W. Va. Code § 17C-6.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (D)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph and the speed limits specified in division (B) above do not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.051 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a)) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.052 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this Traffic Code no person
shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped with
pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
      (1)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district;
      (3)   Forty mph on open country highway; and
      (4)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
   (C)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.053 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or
timer or in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on
any public street or highway in this municipality.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SPEED RACE means;
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8(a)) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
DRIVING REGULATIONS
§ 72.065 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 72.066 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.067 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.068 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.069 OVERTAKING; PASSING LEFT OF CENTER.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.070 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.071 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.072 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c)) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.073 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent
herewith shall apply.
   (B)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (C)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane except
in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (D)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.074 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided that
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone”;
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of this state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-10) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.075 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-11) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.076 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-12) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
TURNING
§ 72.090 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this subchapter. (W. Va. Code § 17C-8-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 72.091 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.092 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made
so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion
of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.093 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.094 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers, buttons or
signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this chapter be traveled
by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons or signs are
so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 72.095 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are
erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
SIGNALS
§ 72.110 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.111 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE; TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
72.091 to 72.094, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or
otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be
affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-8) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.112 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device,
but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand and arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals
must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-9) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.113 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-10) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 72.125 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.126 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this Traffic Code may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.127 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
72.094 at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways or which are approaching so closely on such through
street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver having
so yielded may proceed.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.128 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.129 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
73.31, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated
as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.130 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or driveway,
alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed by the
following rules.
   (A)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
   (C)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction, approach
for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the
left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway or building.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
GRADES
§ 72.145 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the
driver of such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from
the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do
so safely.
      (2)   The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
         (c)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and
such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
         (d)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(W. Va Code § 17C-12-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.146 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the State
Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
When such stop signs are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within
50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and
shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 72.147 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (H) below, the driver of a commercial
motor vehicle specified in division (C) below shall not cross a railroad track
or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
      (1)    Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
      (2)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
      (3)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
   (B)   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial motor
vehicle across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor vehicle
to complete the crossing without change of gears. The driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the tracks.
   (C)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 392.10(a)(3);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. parts 107 through 180;
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120; and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part 107
subpart B.
   (D)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with division (A) above.
   (E)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade as provided in division (A) above may not
cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows the
commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad crossing
and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are clear of an
approaching train.
   (F)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (G)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flamer or a traffic-
control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing, or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5;
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
   (H)   Any person driving a vehicle specified in this section or a vehicle
that requires a commercial driver’s license who fails to comply with the
requirements of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that if the
electric or mechanical signal device is malfunctioning, this division (H) shall
not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.148 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of ten or less mph or a vertical body or load clearance of less than one-
half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles or in any
event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of a roadway,
upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying
with this section.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   (1)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving
any such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet
nor more than 50 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so
stopped shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and
shall not proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagger or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. If a flagger is provided by the railroad, movement
over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
STOPPING
§ 72.160 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (B)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected on
the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (D)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic-control signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.161 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.162 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-12-8 and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road
or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of this
division (A) shall be subject to the penalty provided, however, that such
conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to farther administrative or
other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other provisions of the West
Virginia Code or this Traffic Code to the contrary.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education, agency or
individual, shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.163 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-
12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult must use by
exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code § 17C-15-26(e).
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van when
there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights or
when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated, or
the passenger resumes motion. This section applies whenever the passenger van
is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot, private
road or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled
access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van which is
on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7a) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.164 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99(A).
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.001 through
72.023 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
72.014 shall, for a first offense, be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-11-1)
      (3)   Whoever violates §
72.021 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17D-2A-9)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
72.016 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $100, or imprisoned in jail for not more
than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
   (D)   (1)   Any violation of §
72.023 shall constitute the commission of a misdemeanor criminal offense, and
any officer of the Police Department of the city or any officer of any other
police agency, exercising proper jurisdiction within the corporate limits of
the city is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a citation and to charge
any such person who commits a violation. Any person convicted of a first
offense shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. Any person
convicted of a second or further offense shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $250.
      (2)   The parent or other guardian of any person violating the provisions
of §
72.023 when such person shall not have attained the age of 18 years shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such minor to violate any provision of §
72.023. Any such authorization or if such parent or other guardian shall
knowingly permit any such minor to violate the provisions of §
72.023 shall constitute a criminal violation and shall subject such parent or
guardian to the criminal penalties. The citing and conviction of any parent or
guardian shall not prohibit the citing and conviction of the operator of such
motorized scooter.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.036 shall for a first offense be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500,
or imprisoned not less than five nor more than 30 days; for a second or
subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $1,000, or
imprisoned not less than ten nor more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (E)(1) above, any person
convicted of a violation of §
72.036 who in doing so proximately causes another to suffer serious bodily
injury shall be confined in jail not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
or fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or both.
      (3)   For purposes of division (E)(2) above, SERIOUS BODILY INJURY means
bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which causes serious
or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health or prolonged loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.050 through
72.053 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (F)(2) hereof, any
person who violates the provisions of §
72.050 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$500.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
that if such conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more in
the presence of one or more children, then the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(W. Va, Code § 17C-6-1)
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates §
72.053 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100; for a second
offense fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. For the purposes of this
division (F)(3), a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure such
person’s appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be
equivalent to a final conviction. If at the time of any violation of the
provisions of §
72.053 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in this state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if such person be a
nonresident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
75.10 shall be applicable.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8)
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.053(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished for a first offense by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$100, and for a second offense by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than
$500, or by imprisonment for not less than six days nor more than 30 days, or
by both.
   (G)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.065 through
72.076 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (H)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.090 through
72.095 and
72.110 through
72.113 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (I)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.125 through
72.130 shall be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $300; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-6)
   (J)   Whoever violates §
72.161 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (K)   Any driver acting in violation of §§
72.162(A) or
72.163(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §§
72.162(A) or
72.163(B) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this Traffic Code to the contrary.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 73: EQUIPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment
exceptions
Lights
   
73.15   When lighted lights required
   
73.16   Measurements of distances and heights
   
73.17   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
73.18   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
73.19   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
73.20   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
73.21   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
73.22   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
73.23   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
73.24   Cowl, fender and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
73.25   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
73.26   Use of headlight beams
   
73.27   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
73.28   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
73.29   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
73.30   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
73.31   Special restriction on lights
Equipment Required
   
73.45   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
73.46   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and motors
   
73.47   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
   
73.48   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
   
73.49   Rear-view mirror
   
73.50   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
73.51   Tire equipment restrictions
   
73.52   Safety glass in motor vehicles
   
73.53   Vehicles transporting explosive
   
73.54   Television receiver in driver’s view prohibited
   
73.55   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles
and mopeds
   
73.56   Certification labels on mopeds
   
73.57   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and booster
seats
   
73.58   Certificate of inspections and approval
   
73.59   Alteration of suspension system
   
73.60   Sun screening devices
   
73.61   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
   
73.62   Use of engine compression brakes prohibited
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this section, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this chapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required under this section.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this section.
   (C)   The provisions of this section with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor equipped
with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
73.15 display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
73.15.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
LIGHTS
§ 73.15 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped operated upon a street or highway within this municipality at any time
from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain or other unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light
to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or highway at
a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating
devices as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
73.20(C). Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 MEASUREMENTS OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
73.15 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to the
level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
   (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches to
be measured as set forth in §
73.16.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches to be measured as set forth in §
73.16(B).
   (C)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
73.15, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the entire area
is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-14) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is sufficient light
to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street
or highway, no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements. At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped.
   (C)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-15) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles, including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred
to in §
73.01(C), not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
73.15 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-16) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle, except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle, may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this division (A).
   (B)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
   (C)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than one auxiliary passing lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than one auxiliary driving lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle may
be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device comprised of
multiple lamps; provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or driven upon
any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall
be turned off and covered with an opaque covering that prohibits light from
being emitted while the vehicle is being operated on any road or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-17) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and when required under this Traffic
Code shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp; and
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (B)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
73.15.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-18) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (C)   Except for school buses as provided in this division (C), any motor
vehicle may be equipped with not more than two back-up lamps either separately
or in combination with other lamps, but any such back-up lamp shall not be
lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses used for the
transportation of school children in this municipality, whether owned and
operated by a county board of education or privately owned and operated under
contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped with two back-up
lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white lens or reflectors,
capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of the bus for safe
backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the county board of
education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination intensity instead of
32 candlepower.
   (D)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this chapter, The lamps used
to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (E)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering or picking up mail along the route.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, any
motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one electroluminescent solid
state ceramic front identification plate without glare, mounted in conformance
with the manufacturer’s specifications.
   (G)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this subchapter. The lamps or flashing
lights used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display
simultaneously either illuminating or flashing purple lights. The lamps used to
display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing
or illuminated purple lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-19) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary
driving lamp or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor
vehicles other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall be so
arranged that the driver may select at will between distributions of light
projected to different elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so
arranged that such selection can be made automatically, subject to the
following limitations.
   (B)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (C)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   (D)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle
or moped, registered in the state after January 1, 1952, which has multiple-
beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which
shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head
lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so
designed and located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare
to the driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-20) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.26 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in §
73.15, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations.
   (B)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in §
73.25(C) shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road contour
and loading.
   (C)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this Traffic
Code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
73.25(B).
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-21) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952 in lieu
of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations.
   (B)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of 25 feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (C)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-22) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 73.28 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   Every vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped operated
upon a highway within that city at any time from sunset to sunrise and at any
other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible
persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead shall
display lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter respectively
required for different classes of vehicles, subject to exceptions with respect
to parked vehicles as hereinafter stated. Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle
and moped shall display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the highway.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.29 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
73.15 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
73.25 or
73.27, provided that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of 20
mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-24) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.30 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
73.15, at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-25) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 SPECIAL RESTRICTION ON LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any street
or highway with any lamp or device thereon displaying other than a white or
amber light visible from directly in front of the center thereof except as
authorized by division (D) below.
   (C)   Except as authorized in divisions (D) and (F) below and §
73.24, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any
vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means
of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may
have blinking or flashing lights.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Traffic Code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated.
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each Police Department.
      (2)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by §
73.24, red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
         (a)   Ambulances;
         (b)   Firefighting vehicles;
         (c)   Hazardous material response vehicles;
         (d)   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
         (e)   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a Fire Department;
         (f)   School buses;
         (g)   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1 of those
firefighters who are authorized by their Fire Chiefs to have the lights;
         (h)   Class A vehicles of members of duty chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a Fire Department;
         (i)   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective Chiefs to have
the lights;
         (j)   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active
members of state Fire Departments, ambulance services or duly chartered rescue
squads who are authorized by their respective Chiefs to have the lights;
         (k)   West Virginia Department of Agriculture emergency response
vehicles;
         (l)   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Military Affairs and Public Safety for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management; and
         (m)   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency management
personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs
and Public Safety and the county commission of the county of residence.
      (3)   Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle shall be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services or
chartered rescue squads. The use of red flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and Human Resources and the sheriff of the county of
residence;
         (b)   Authorization for all Fire Department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Fire Marshal’s office;
         (c)   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (d)   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a Fire Department shall be designated by the squad chief, the Sheriff of the
county of residence and the Department of Health and Human Resources;
         (e)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12;
         (f)   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their Fire Chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s office;
         (g)   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and Human
Resources and the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (h)   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a Fire Department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence and
the Department of Health and Human Resources;
         (i)   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a State Fire Department, ambulance services
or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their respective chiefs;
         (j)   Authorization for West Virginia Department of Agriculture
emergency response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner or the
Department of Agriculture;
         (k)   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services
and Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management shall be designated
by the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety; and
         (l)   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Military Affairs and Public Safety and the county commission of the county
of residence.
      (4)    Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and § 17C-15-27;
         (b)   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized
in §
73.24;
         (c)   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         (d)   Flag car services;
         (e)   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         (f)   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         (g)   Snow removal equipment;
         (h)   School buses; and
         (i)   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)    The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (b)   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways;
         (c)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12;
         (d)   Authorization for automotive tire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 Standard for Automotive Fire
Apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) in
2016, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by Legislative Rule (87 CSR §§ 1
et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any vehicle
belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving funding
from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of providing
general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped with a
white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be installed on
the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling
solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward from the rear of
the roof edge. The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360
degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than
six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to
indicate the light is in operation.
   (F)   No person shall install or use flashing warning lights of an
unauthorized color on a vehicle other than as specified in this section, except
that a police vehicle may be equipped with either, or both, blue or red warning
lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
EQUIPMENT REQUIRED
§ 73.45 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer hereinafter sold in
this state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes, and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped and any semitrailer
of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles,
motor-driven cycles and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking brakes adequate
to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under all conditions
of loading on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material. The parking
brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the foregoing
requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or by
equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (7)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (8)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
Feet to stop deceleration from 20 miles in feet           Per hour Per second
Vehicle or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all  30       14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on 40       10.7
all wheels
 
   (C)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-31) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.46 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOTORS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has disapproved
the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-32) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.47 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
   (D)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle
or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the Department of
Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the driver of
such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-33) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.48 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move on any street or highway within the city
any motor vehicle, trailer, semitruck or pole trailer or any combination
thereof, unless the equipment upon every such vehicle is in good working order
and adjustment and the vehicle is in such safe mechanical condition as not to
endanger the driver or other occupant or any person upon any street or highway
within the city. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise; such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway within the city. The engine and power mechanisms
of every motor vehicle shall be so equipped and adjusted as to prevent the
escape of excessive fumes or smoke. Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.49 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-35) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.50 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the street
or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.51 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1, of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided that in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a street or highway,
other than school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are
operational with a recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square
inch.
      (4)    No studded tires or chains shall be sold or used within the
municipality which do not meet the specifications established by the rules and
regulations which the Commissioner of Highways shall promulgate.
   (D)   Council may in its discretion issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the street or highway of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a
highway would otherwise be prohibited under this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-37) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.52 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   On and after July 1, 1951, no person shall operate any motor vehicle as
specified herein, nor shall any motor vehicle as specified herein be registered
thereafter unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glass of a type approved
by the Commissioner of Highways wherever glass is used in doors, windows and
windshields. The foregoing provisions shall apply to all passenger-type motor
vehicles, including passenger buses and school buses, but in respect to trucks,
including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glass shall apply to
all glass used in doors, windows, and windshields in the drivers’ compartments
of such vehicles.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.53 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVE.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo
or part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (C)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-41) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.54 TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW PROHIBITED.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway in this
municipality when equipped with a television receiver unless such receiver is
so placed that the screen or picture tube of such receiver is visible only in
the rear seat of such motor vehicle and not in view of the operator of such
motor vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-42) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.55 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES
AND MOPEDS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (B)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses), or eye goggles or face shield that complies with
the performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the
operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the
operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the
passenger or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride
sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are
seats and footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may
be carried in a factory produced side car provided that there is one passenger
per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (E)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-44) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.56 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in this municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-45) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 73.57 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND BOOSTER
SEATS.
   (A)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   A violation of this section does not by virtue of the violation
constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative
negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (C)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other
provisions or applications of this section and to this end the divisions of
this section are declared to be severable.
   (D)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.58 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTIONS AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va.
Code Art. 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-16-9) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.59 ALTERATION OF SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration of its bumper mounting on the frame more than four
inches from the lower edge of the original manufactured bumper configuration
for that vehicle. The bumper must be at least three inches in vertical width,
centered on the centerline of the motor vehicle and not less than the width of
the wheel track distance. The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body
to the vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the
vehicle frame mount seat. No vehicle shall be modified to cause the vehicle
body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose the fuel tank to
damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact with the body
under normal operation, No part of the original suspension system shall be
disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system. Front end
suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly prohibited. However, nothing
contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy duty equipment,
including shock absorbers and overload springs. Nothing contained in this
section prohibits the operation on a public street or highway of a motor
vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system if such normal wear does not
adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered in this state if it has been modified by alteration of its
altitude from the ground to the extent that its bumpers, measured to any point
on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper bar, exclusive of any bumper
guards, do not fall within the limits specified herein for its gross vehicle
weight rating category. The front and rear bumper height of trucks whose gross
vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or less may be no less than six inches
and no more than 31 inches. The provisions of this division (B) do not apply to
trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds. For the
purpose of this section, the term GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATINGS means
manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings established for that vehicle.
   (C)   In the absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been
lowered or modified more than four inches, height measurements under divisions
(A) or (B) above shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail.
   (D)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets or highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the highways of this
state.
   (E)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration as set out in the provisions of this section unless the
tires on the altered motor vehicle meet specifications approved by the United
States Department of Transportation. In addition, neither the motor vehicle nor
the chassis shall come in contact with the tires under normal operation.
   (F)   Modified vehicles must have a special inspection sticker which must be
inspected by July 31, 1990. The Police Department shall record on accident
report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the accident.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.60 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a nonreflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (F)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed either on
a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      NONREFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather than
to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.61 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street or
highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards. For the purposes of this section, PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor
vehicle which is designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including
the driver, except that such term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer or
any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment of this
section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a
belt system. The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after January 1, 1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (B)   The required use of safety belts as provided herein does not apply to
a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States Postal
Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or operator
with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would prevent
appropriate restraint in such safety belt if the condition is duly certified by
a physician who shall state the nature of the disability as well as the reason
such restraint is inappropriate.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of this section is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided, that the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an
in camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a
safety belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of.
      (2)   Upon such a finding by the court, the court may then, in a jury
trial, by special interrogatory to the jury, determine that:
         (a)   The injured party failed to wear a safety belt; and
         (b)   The failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure to
mitigate damages.
      (3)   The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery for
medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt shall not be presented to the jury. In all cases, the actual
computation of the dollar amount reduction shall be determined by the court.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to abrogate or
alter the provisions of §
73.57 relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.62 USE OF ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or
cause to be used or operated within the corporate city limits, any engine
brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed in the aid of
braking or decelerating of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual
or explosive noise from such vehicle on any public ways, including, but not
limited to, streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way, established for
vehicle operation, except when necessary for the protection of persons and/or
property which cannot be avoided by application of an alternative braking
system. Noise caused by the application of engine compression brakes which is
effectively muffled or if the application is necessary for the health, safety
and welfare of the city is exempt from the provisions of this section. Noise
created by emergency equipment for emergency purposes is also exempt.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, any person violating
any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
73.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
73.28 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100.
   (D)   Any person violating §§
73.45 or
73.46 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-6)
   (E)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
73.50 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §
73.57 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (G)   Whoever violates §
73.60 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
   (H)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
73.61 shall be fined not more than $25. No court costs or other fees shall be
assessed for a violation of this section. Enforcement of this section shall be
accomplished only as a secondary action when a driver of a passenger vehicle
has been detained for probable cause of violating another section of this code.
   (I)   Any person violating §
73.62 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500, or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 74: LOADS
Section
   
74.01   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
74.02   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
74.03   Maximum width, height and length
   
74.04   Loads dropping or leaking
   
74.05   Towing requirements
§ 74.01 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route. No person shall operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in W. Va. Code § 17C-17 upon any state route within the
municipality, except pursuant to special written permit issued by the
Commissioner of Highways, or upon any local truck route. Every such permit
shall be earned in the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it refers
and shall be open to inspection by any police officer.
   (B)   Permit. No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways
shall be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
74.03 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of
vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route
within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order
to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (D)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in division (A) above.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no through trucks - gross weight
5 tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations
imposed by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on
any such sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
70.99(A).
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 74.02 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (B)   A motor home, travel trailer or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
74.03, if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 74.03 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic-control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (C) or in division (D)
below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more than
two units and no combination of vehicles including any load thereon shall have
an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55 feet
except as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise
provided in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W. Va. Code §
17C-17-5. The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may
not consist of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (D)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers of 65 feet.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D)
above, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own motion
or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle length not
to exceed 70 feet.
   (F)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semitrailer combinations and
truck tractor- semitrailer-trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the State Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semitrailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length except where semitrailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the
semitrailer, such semitrailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semitrailer or trailer operating in a
truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor, semitrailer, trailer combinations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (G)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code §
17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102 inches,
exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States Department of
Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway designated by the
United States Department of Transportation or the Commissioner of the
Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a minimum lane width
of ten feet.
   (H)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 74.04 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
§ 74.05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99(A)
CHAPTER 75: LICENSING AND REGISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Registration, certificate of title required
   
75.02   Registration card
   
75.03   Display of registration plates
   
75.04   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of temporary
facsimile
   
75.05   Improper use of registration card, plate or permit
   
75.06   Driver or motorcycle license required
   
75.07   Persons exempt from license
   
75.08   License to be carried and exhibited on demand
   
75.09   Certain acts prohibited
   
75.10   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
75.11   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
75.27   Employer responsibilities
   
75.28   Commercial driver’s license required
   
75.29   Exemptions
   
75.30   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
 
   
75.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided, that in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further that he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.02 REGISTRATION CARD.
   Every owner upon receipt of a registration card shall write his or her
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided. Every such
registration card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to which it
refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such vehicle
who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer or any officer or
employee of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-13) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 75.03 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration as defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-10-
1 may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-15) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF TEMPORARY
FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this Traffic Code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Ch. 17A.
   (B)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department whichever is earlier; provided, that no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of this
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the state police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in W. Va. Code Ch. 8A, when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid driver’s license under the provisions of the West Virginia Code for the
type or class of vehicle being driven.
   (B)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the West
Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in the
West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be
required to obtain any other license to exercise such privilege by any county,
municipality or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (C)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in W. Va. Code Ch. 8A when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid motorcycle license or a valid license which has been endorsed under W.
Va. Code § 17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation or has a valid motorcycle
instruction permit.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
75.06:
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of this
state, may operate a motor vehicle in this state only as a noncommercial driver
for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (C)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the person’s
immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (B) above, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as a noncommercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place or places of business or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade, profession
or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a resident of the
state over the age of 18 years of age, the resident would not be required under
the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17 to obtain a Class A, B, C or D driver’s
license. However, this division (C) shall not exempt any person who is required
to obtain a West Virginia driver’s license in accordance with the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1a;
   (D)   A nonresident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of P. Law No. 99-
570, being 49 U.S.C. App 27-1 et seq., and unless the Commissioner determines
the person’s home state or country does not extend the same privilege to a
resident of this state may operate a motor vehicle in this state either as a
commercial driver subject to the age limits applicable to commercial driver in
this state, or as a noncommercial driver subject to the limitations imposed on
nonresident drivers in divisions (B) and (C) above; and
   (E)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in an
accredited school, college or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (B) and (C) above may operate motor vehicle in this
state only as noncommercial driver; provided, that the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of this
state. This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college or university or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.08 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED ON DEMAND.
   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer, police officer or an employee of the Division of Motor
Vehicles; provided, that no person charged with violating this section shall be
convicted if such person produces in court or at the office of the arresting
officer a driver’s license issued to such person and valid at the time of such
person’s arrest.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.09 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
nonoperator’s identification to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another:
      (1)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification not issued to him or her;
      (2)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification or knowingly make a
false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
      (3)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or nonoperator’s identification issued to him or her; or
      (4)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
Traffic Code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.10 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of
this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been
lawfully suspended or revoked.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.11 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof
from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5 % of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 17E-1-9(d).
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W. Va. Code § 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport 16 or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials as
defined in this section.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt; a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative tribunal or proceeding; an
unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s
appearance in court; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court
or the payment of a fine or court cost, or violation of a condition of release
without bail regardless of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended, or
probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following three actions:
      (1)    The suspension, revocation or cancellation of a driver’s license
by the state or jurisdiction of issuance;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control other than parking or
vehicle weight except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations; or
      (3)    A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. part 391.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in any
place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic. For
purposes of §
75.30, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle anywhere
in this municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE. Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including full-time,
regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent or occasional drivers; leased
drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors (while in the course of
operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly employed by or
under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the United States, a state or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. Includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to
the farm owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively in the
transportation of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock, poultry
and dairy products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or
produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses, creameries, railway
shipping points and cold storage plants and in the transportation of
agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards
to be used thereon.
   FARMER. Includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or person in control of the
premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits, who is
at least 18 years of age with two years licensed driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, who is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed
driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement officer, an
authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian, Mexican, county
or local jurisdiction including any special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72, 392.5, 395.13, 396.9 or
compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-service criteria that an
imminent hazard exists.
   VIOLATION OF AN OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER.
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out of service; or
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out of service and before the required repairs are made.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 75.26 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver’s license at one time except during the ten-day period beginning on the
date the person is issued a driver’s license.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.27 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Each employer must require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W. Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (B)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit, require or authorize a driver
to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period:
      (1)   In which the driver has a driver’s license suspended, revoked or
canceled by a state; has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle
in a state, or has been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   In which the driver has more than one driver’s license at one time;
      (3)   During any period in which the driver, or the commercial motor
vehicle he or she is driving or the motor carrier operation, is subject to an
out-of-service order;
      (4)   In violation of federal, state or local law or regulation
pertaining to railroad highway grade crossings; or
      (5)   During any period the driver is in violation of any provision of 49
C.F.R. part 382 related to controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.28 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle he or she is driving.
   (B)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while his or her
driving privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (C)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle shall have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.29 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this subchapter only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, farm supplies, to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (B)   Military personnel. Active duty military personnel operating vehicles
being used for military purposes are exempted from the provisions of this
chapter in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R. § 383.3(c).
   (C)   Firefighting and rescue equipment.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles authorized to hold an authorized emergency
vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only are exempt from the provisions
of this chapter while the authorized emergency vehicle permit is in force.
      (2)   Vehicles in this class include, but are not limited to,
firefighters and rescue equipment:
         (a)   Owned and operated by state, county and municipal Fire
Departments;
         (b)    Owned and operated by state, county and municipal civil defense
organizations;
         (c)   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of
business that requires firefighter equipment to protect the safety of their
plants and its employees; and
         (d)   Owned and operated by volunteer Fire Departments.
   (D)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment. Operators of
equipment which, by its design, appearance and function, is not intended for
use on a public road, including, without limitation, motorscrapers, backhoes,
motorgraders, compactors, excavators, tractors, trenches and bulldozers, are
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter; provided, that the exemption
recognized by this division (D) shall not be construed to permit the operation
of such equipment on any public road except such operation as may be required
for a crossing of such road; provided, however, that no such equipment may be
operated on a public road for a distance exceeding 500 feet from the place
where such equipment entered upon the public road.
   (E)   Exempt vehicles. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of
1999, being 49 C.F.R. Subchapter B, exempts vehicles used exclusively for
personal use such as recreation vehicles and rental trucks used only to
transport the driver’s personal or household property.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-8) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 75.30 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in
his or her blood, breath or urine of 0.04% or more, by weight, shall be in
violation of this section.
   (B)   A person who violates the provisions of division (A) above shall be
treated in the same manner set forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-19-3, as if he or she
had been arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or of any
controlled substance.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these Codified Ordinances, a person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such
person’s system or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine
such person’s blood alcohol content as provided by W. Va. Code § 17E-1-15 shall
be placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-14) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision §§
75.01 through
75.11 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $500;
for a second or subsequent violation of the same provision such person shall be
fined not more than $500, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
75.08 is guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than, $500.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3(b) or (d)
or §
75.10, whoever drives a motor vehicle on any street or highway of this
municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been lawfully
suspended or revoked shall, for the first offense, be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500; for the second offense, such person, shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500; for the third or any subsequent offense,
such person shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days and, in addition to
such mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than $150 nor more than
$500. A record of the conviction of any person under §
75.10 upon a charge of driving a vehicle while the license of such person was
suspended lawfully shall be sent to the State Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances or other drugs, or any
combination thereof, or for driving while having an alcoholic concentration in
his or her blood of 0.08% or more, by weight, or for refusing to take a
secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, for the first offense shall
be imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, shall be
imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.08%, by weight, shall be
imprisoned for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500,
or both.
      (4)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code Art. 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to any period
of incarceration required by this division (C).
   (D)   (1)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or
highway of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully suspended or revoked by the state or any other jurisdiction is, for
the first offense, guilty of a violation of §
75.10, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500; for the second offense, the person is guilty of a violation of §
75.10, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in a county or regional
jail for a period of ten days and, in addition to the mandatory jail sentence,
shall be fined not less than $ 100 nor more than $500; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a violation of §
75.10, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in a county or regional
jail for a term not to exceed 30 days, and, in addition to the mandatory jail
sentence, shall be fined not less than $150 nor more than $500.
      (2)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or
highway of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully revoked or driving under the influence of alcohol, controlled
substances or other drugs, or for driving while having an alcoholic
concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or more, by weight, or for refusing
to take a secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, is, for the first
offense, guilty of a violation of §
75.10, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in a county or regional
jail for a term not to exceed ten days and, in addition to the mandatory jail
sentence, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second
offense, the person is guilty of a violation of §
75.10, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a county or regional
jail for a term not to exceed 20 days and in addition to the mandatory jail
sentence, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $750; for the third
or any subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a violation of §
75.10, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in a county or regional
jail for a term not to exceed 30 days and, in addition to the mandatory jail
sentence, shall be fined not less than $750 nor more than $1,000.
      (3)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public street or
highway of or in the city at a time when his or her privilege to do so has been
lawfully suspended for driving while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol
concentration in his or her blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than
0.08%, by weight, is guilty of a violation of §
75.10 and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in a county or regional
jail for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or
both.
   (E)   Whoever violates §§
75.02,
75.03,
75.04,
75.05,
75.09 or
75.11 shall be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (F)   Unless another penalty is provided in §§
75.25 through
75.30, whoever violates any provision of §§
75.25 through
75.30 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, or both except that for the second violation of §
75.28, the offender shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third or any subsequent
conviction for violation of §
75.28, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,500,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17E-1-25)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol concentration in
his or her blood, breath or urine of 0.04% or more, by weight in violation of §
75.30, shall be imprisoned for not less than 24 hours nor more than 30 days,
and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person convicted of
a second or any subsequent offense under the provisions of this division (G)
shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days, and the court may, in its
discretion, impose a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 76: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Recreational Vehicles
   
76.01   Use of all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, and special
purpose vehicles
   
76.02   Liability
   
76.03   Restrictions
   
76.04   Definitions
Bicycles
   
76.15   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
76.16   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
76.17   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
76.18   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
76.19   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
76.20   Carrying articles
   
76.21   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes
   
76.22   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
   
76.23   Parental duties
   
76.24   Impounding
   
76.25   Riding on sidewalks prohibited
   
76.26   Bicycle helmets for children
Motorcycles
   
76.40   Riding
   
76.41   Noise
   
76.42   Motorcycle packs prohibited
 
   
76.99   Penalty
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 76.01 USE OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLES, AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE VEHICLES.
   All-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, and special purpose vehicles
may be lawfully operated within the corporate limits of the City of Kingwood as
described and allowed in the W. Va. Code § 17A-13-1 and W. Va. Code Chapter
17F.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 76.02 LIABILITY.
   Nothing contained within this subchapter is intended to create, nor shall be
construed as to create or form the basis for, any civil or administrative
liability whatsoever on the part of the city, or any of its officers, employees
or agents, for any injury or damage resulting to any person whomsoever as a
consequence of any action or inaction on the part of the city, relating in any
manner to the enforcement or non-enforcement of this chapter by city officers,
officials, employees, or agents.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 76.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall drive or propel, or cause to be driven or propelled, any
all-terrain vehicle, utility-terrain vehicle, or special purpose vehicle in any
city park or on any city property that is not a roadway and is under the
ownership or supervision of the City of Kingwood. Additionally, all-terrain
vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, and special purpose vehicles may not stop
or park in any areas under the ownership or supervision of the City of Kingwood
except in those areas specifically designated for parking, and then only if
done so in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 76.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). As set forth in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-1(ii).
   UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV). As set forth in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-1(vv).
   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE. As set forth in W. Va. Code § 17A-13-1(b)(1).
(Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
BICYCLES
§ 76.15 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this subchapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-1) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.16 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this Traffic Code, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of this Traffic Code which by
their nature can have no application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 76.17 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.18 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 76.19 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Persons riding
bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast except on paths or
parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.20 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.21 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red
reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-7) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.22 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
76.20; and
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.23 PARENTAL DUTIES.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 76.24 IMPOUNDING.
   In case of violation of any provision of this subchapter, the court may, in
lieu of or in addition to the penalties provided, impound a bicycle involved in
such violation of any person for a period of not more than 30 days.
Jurisdiction to enforce this subchapter is specifically vested in the Juvenile
Court of the county in all cases where the age of the persons is within the
jurisdiction of the court, in all other cases, jurisdiction is in the Police
Court of the city.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 76.25 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride any bicycle upon any sidewalk within the city.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.26 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of this state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-11A-3)
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-4)
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sate for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (A) above, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-5)
   (D)   Civil actions. A violation of division (B) above is not admissible as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in
any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 76.40 RIDING.
   Any person, or persons operating a motorcycle, or motor-driven vehicles
shall ride only upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto. Operators
shall not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on such a
vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to carry more than one person, in which
event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for
two persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of such
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.41 NOISE.
   Every motorcycle shall be operated as quietly as possible at all times
within the city, and when so operated, shall be equipped with a muffler
designed with baffles, resonator cylinder and other factory-made noise
reducers. The muffler shall not be altered, changed or designed in any manner
which would tend to increase the noise-producing effects above that of the
manufacturer’s design in the original equipment. A driver, operator or
controller of any motorcycle shall not use the cutout of a motor while
operating the same within the city, or operate a motor vehicle without a proper
muffler functioning in good order, or race the motor of any vehicle, above
described, so as to cause a backfire or other loud noise. The provisions of
this section shall apply to the operator or operators or controllers of any
motor vehicle whether on a street or within private property and in addition to
other prescribed penalties, the operators of such motor vehicle in violation of
this section shall be hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.42 MOTORCYCLE PACKS PROHIBITED.
   Any driver, drivers, operators or controllers of a motorcycle, motor bike or
any two-wheeled motor driven vehicle is hereby prohibited from banding together
with other driver, drivers, operators or controllers of motorcycles, motor
bikes or any two-wheeled motor driven vehicles for the purpose of forming a
“pack” (not more than two abreast and with at least 25 feet between following
motorcycles), and operating such vehicles upon the streets and alleys of the
city whereby the pack or number of such two-wheeled motor driven vehicles shall
cause an excessive amount of noise or create a menace or hazard to the safe
flow of traffic within the city, and if pack or grouping of the vehicles shall
occur, they shall be deemed to be in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99(A).
   (B)   (1)   Any person being convicted of a first offense of §
76.01 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, plus applicable
courts costs.
      (2)   Any person convicted of a second offense of §
76.01 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $250, plus applicable
court costs.
      (3)   Any person convicted of a third or further offense of
76.01 shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, plus applicable
court costs.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.99(A), any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
76.26(B) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program which includes injury
prevention education, or both fined and required to perform such community
service. Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court costs
may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
76.26(B).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
76.26(B), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
76.26 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-2-1
(c). Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s Highway Safety Program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-7)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
76.40 trough
76.42 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $100;
upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more
than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more
than $500.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 77: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
77.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
77.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
77.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
77.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
77.05   Moving upon right half of sidewalk
   
77.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
77.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
77.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
77.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
provided in §
71.03, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a)) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 77.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
77.03.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 77.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-3) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-4) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 77.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF SIDEWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a street or highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-6) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic-control device or flagger.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-8) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 77.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W. Va. Code § 5-15-5) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
§ 77.09 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
70.02 and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-1)
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
front, rear and side reflectors; a braking system that enables the operator to
bring the device to a controlled stop; and if operated at any time from one-
half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a
white light that sufficiently illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of this
Traffic Code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2) (Ord. passed 12-28-2017) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-7)
   (B)   An operator who violates a provision of §
77.09 shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a second or subsequent
offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 and not
greater than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
(Ord. passed 12-28-2017)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
78.01   Definitions
   
78.02   Parking meter zone
   
78.03   Designation of parking spaces
   
78.04   Installation of parking meters
   
78.05   Operation of parking meters
   
78.06   Hours of operation
   
78.07   Violations
   
78.08   Enforcement
   
78.09   Collections
   
78.10   Use of funds
   
78.11   Minor violations
   
78.12   Provisions for exceptions
Snow Emergencies
   
78.25   Duty of city to remove snow
   
78.26   Definition of “snowfall season”
   
78.27   Parking of vehicles on street during season
   
78.28   Written variances for parking
   
78.29   Designation of “business streets” for parking
   
78.30   Temporary variance for guest parking
 
   
78.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 78.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Includes every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner
thereof, or as the agent, employee or permittee of the owner, or is in actual
physical control of a vehicle.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle whether occupied or not, upon a
street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, receiving or discharging passengers or loading or unloading
merchandise or in obedience to traffic regulations, signs or signals or an
involuntary stopping of the vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of
the operator of the vehicle.
   PARKING METER SPACE. Any space within a parking meter zone, adjacent to a
parking meter and which is duly designated for the parking of a single vehicle
by lines painted or otherwise durably marked on the curb or on the surface of
the street adjacent to or adjoining the parking meters.
   PARKING METER ZONE. Includes any restricted street upon which parking meters
are installed and in operation.
   PARKING METER. Includes any mechanical device or meter not inconsistent with
this chapter placed or erected for the regulation of parking by authority of
this chapter. Each PARKING METER installed shall indicate by proper legend the
legal parking time established by the city and when operated shall at all times
indicate the balance of legal parking time, and at the expiration of such
period shall indicate illegal or overtime parking.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, alley, highway, lane, path or other
public place located in the city and established for the use of vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported upon a highway, except a device which is operated upon rails or
tracks.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.02 PARKING METER ZONE.
   The parking meter zone of the city shall consist of Main Street, Price
Street, High Street and Court Street and such other areas, streets or portions
of streets as may hereafter be included by amendment hereto, lying within the
corporate limits.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.03 DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The Chief of Police and/or City Parks and Recreation Director shall be and
is hereby authorized to mark off individual parking spaces in the designated
parking zones, and in such other zones as may be hereafter established, said
parking spaces to be designated by lines painted or durably marked on the
curbing or surface of the street. At each space so marked it shall be unlawful
to park any vehicle in such a way that said vehicle shall not be entirely
within the limits of the space so designated.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.04 INSTALLATION OF PARKING METERS.
   In said parking meter zones, as designated by Council, the Chief of Police
and/or City Parks and Recreation Director shall maintain parking meters along
the curb or sidewalk immediately adjacent to the parking spaces and said Chief
of Police and/or City Parks and Recreation Director shall see to the
regulation, control, operation, maintenance and use of such parking meters.
Each device shall be so set as to display a signal showing legal parking upon
the deposit of one 25 cent coin, for a period of 60 minutes. Each device shall
be so arranged that upon the expiration of the lawful time limit it will
indicate by a proper visible signal that the lawful parking period has expired,
and in such cases the right of such vehicle to occupy such space shall cease
and the operator, owner, possessor or manager thereof shall be subject to the
penalties hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.05 OPERATION OF PARKING METERS.
   (A)   Except in a period of emergency determined by the Chief of Police or
an officer of the City Fire Department, or in compliance with the directors of
a Police Department or traffic-control sign or signal, when any vehicle shall
be parked in any parking space alongside or next to which a parking meter is
located, the operator of such vehicle shall, upon entering the said parking
meter space, immediately deposit or cause to be deposited in said meter the 25
cent coin, and shall also set in operation the timing mechanism on such meter
in accordance with directions properly appearing thereon. Failure to deposit
such coin, and to set the timing mechanism shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of such and the setting of the time mechanism, the
parking space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle for 60 minutes, provided
that any person placing a vehicle in a parking meter space adjacent to a meter
which indicates that unused time has been left in the meter by the previous
occupant of the space shall not be required to deposit a coin so long as his or
her occupancy of said space does not exceed the indicated unused parking time.
   (C)   If said vehicle remains parked in any such parking space beyond the
parking time limit set for such parking space, and if the meter shall indicate
such illegal parking, then, and in that event, such vehicle shall be considered
as parking overtime and beyond the period of legal parking time, and such
parking shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Said parking meters shall be operated in said parking meter zones every day
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.; provided, further that Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays shall be excepted, the term HOLIDAYS to be those days
designated by the Congress of the United States, or the President of the United
States, or the Legislature of the state.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.07 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person:
   (A)   To cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of, or operated by such person to be parked overtime, or beyond the period of
legal parking time established for any parking meter zone as herein described,
or to deposit in any parking meter any coin for the purpose of parking beyond
the maximum legal parking time for the particular parking meter zone;
   (B)   To permit any vehicle to remain or be placed in any parking space
adjacent to any parking meter while said meter is displaying a signal
indicating that the vehicle occupying such parking space has already been
parked beyond the period prescribed for such parking space;
   (C)   To park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking meter
space or in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
area designated by such lines or markings;
   (D)   To deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this chapter; and
   (E)   To deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slugs,
device or metal substance, or other substitute for lawful coins.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department and/or Parks and Recreation of
the city to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.09 COLLECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or a member of the Police
Department designated by him or her or a representative of the Parks and
Recreation to make regular collections of the money deposited in said meters
and to remove from the parking meters the containers containing the coins
deposited, or the coins themselves, and to deliver same to the City Clerk and/
or Parks and Recreation bookkeeper and to count the funds contained therein and
deposit same with the City Treasurer or within such funds as are directed by
the Council of the city.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.10 USE OF FUNDS.
   The coins deposited in parking meters shall be used to defray the expense of
proper regulation of traffic upon the public streets of the city; to provide
for the cost of supervision, regulation and control of the parking of vehicles
in parking meter zones; to cover the cost of purchase, inspection,
installation, operation, maintenance, control and use of parking meters; and
for such other purposes as may be designated by the Council of the city,
including the use of the Park and Recreation Department of the city.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.11 MINOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Any person accused of a violation of such regulations
prohibiting the parking of a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the
length of time a vehicle may be parked, or parking in a metered area without
putting a coin in the meter, may settle and compromise the claim against him or
her for such illegal parking by paying to the city the sum of $5 within 24
hours of the time such alleged offense was committed. Receptacles for such
payment shall be placed at such locations for the benefit of the public as the
Chief of Police and/or Parks and Recreation may determine, or same may be paid
to the City Clerk in the City Hall. Members of the Police Department and/or
Parks and Recreation are hereby authorized to refrain from instituting a
prosecution for the alleged offense involved, upon payment of such amount
within the prescribed period. This section shall not apply to persons parking a
vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or
Fire Department apparatus or emergency equipment is kept or housed nor shall
this section apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to
entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or parking in such a way as
to reduce traffic to one-way traffic only, nor to any person who refuses to
move a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police
Department.
Specific Violations Payment
Specific Violations       Payment
Alley                     $10
Block private drive       $10
Crosswalk                 $10
Double parking            $10
Fire lane                 $50
Handicapped               $100
Keys in ignition          $10
Loading zone              $10
Obstructing traffic       $10
Overtime parking          $5
Park across lines         $10
Permit/decal violation    $10
Prohibited area           $10
Restricted zone           $10
Too close to fire plug    $50
Too close to intersection $10
Too close to stop sign    $10
Wrong direction           $10
Other                     $10
 
   (B)   Excess parking violations.
      (1)   Should any owner of a vehicle receive more than five parking
violation tickets which have not been paid within the 24-hour period and has
five outstanding parking violation tickets at the time that the sixth parking
violation ticket is written is subject to having his, her or its vehicle towed
or booted, which is within the officer’s discretion.
      (2)   Should the vehicle be towed, all parking meter violations and the
towing fee must be paid in full prior to the release of the vehicle.
      (3)   Should the vehicle be booted, all parking meter violations must be
paid in full together with a $25 fee to remove the boot, prior to releasing the
vehicle.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
§ 78.12 PROVISIONS FOR EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the city from
providing for bus stops, taxicab stands, physicians stands or other matters of
a similar nature, including the loading for unloading of trucks or other
commercial vehicles.
(Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 78.25 DUTY OF CITY TO REMOVE SNOW.
   The city, within reasonable limits, has the duty to remove the snow from the
streets of the city during appropriate seasons, and that it has the further
duty to facilitate the movement of firefighting apparatus and emergency
services vehicles at all times.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978)
§ 78.26 DEFINITION OF “SNOWFALL SEASON”.
   The Mayor, at his or her own discretion, or at the discretion of the
Council, shall have the authority to declare any period during the season of
snowfall as a snow emergency period. The SEASON OF SNOWFALL if further defined
as any period between November 15 and April 15.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978)
§ 78.27 PARKING OF VEHICLES ON STREET DURING SEASON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporations or other entity to
park any vehicles, to include both wheeled and tracked vehicles, or any other
movable object upon the streets of the city during the season of snowfall and
being the period from November 15 until April 15 except as hereinafter
permitted in §
78.28.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978) Penalty, see §
78.99
§ 78.28 WRITTEN VARIANCES FOR PARKING.
   In the case where obtaining off-street parking provides an extreme hardship
to a vehicle owner, the Chief of Police of the city is authorized to grant a
variance to the individual with such a hardship case after an inspection of the
premises of said individual by the Chief of Police and the City Council member
from that ward, and an approval of a variance by both Council member and Chief
of Police said variance to be granted in writing, provided that upon the
declaration of a snow emergency period by the Mayor of the city the variance
will be temporarily null and void and any such individual having such a
variance will have to remove his or her vehicle from the streets under the
instructions promulgated by the Mayor for the snow emergency period.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978)
§ 78.29 DESIGNATION OF “BUSINESS STREETS” FOR PARKING.
   During the season of snowfall from November 15 until April 15, parking on
business streets will be allowed except during the hours of 1:00 a.m. until 6:
00 a.m. with BUSINESS STREETS being further defined as Price Street (from Brown
Avenue to the Post Office at Hartman Street); as Main Street (from its
intersection with Morgantown Street to its intersection with Locust Street);
and on High Street where parking meters are located or in any other location
where the city has located parking meters; provided, that during periods
designated as a snow emergency period by the Mayor of the city only such
parking as he or she may authorize will be allowed on the business streets.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978)
§ 78.30 TEMPORARY VARIANCE FOR GUEST PARKING.
   In the event that any citizen of the city will experience a temporary
hardship during the season of snowfall because of guests to his or her
residence, he or she may be granted a temporary variance by the Chief of Police
by contacting the Chief of Police and making such a verbal request; provided,
that in the event of a snow emergency period declared by the Mayor of the city;
no temporary variance will be granted without his or her express permission.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978)
§ 78.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
78.01 through
78.12, or who shall counsel, aid or abet any such violation or failure to
comply, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be punished by a fine of
at least $1 and not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment for not to exceed 30
days, either or both penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the Police
Court Judge of the city.
   (B)   Any owners, operators or drivers of the cited vehicles or objects
violating §§
78.25 through
78.30 shall be subject to having their vehicles or objects towed away at his or
her expense and may be found guilty of a misdemeanor and upon being found
guilty by a trial or pleading of guilty, shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $200, plus costs; or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding
ten days at the discretion of the Mayor, or both.
(Ord. 18, passed 11-28-1978; Ord. 9, passed 2-13-2018)
CHAPTER 79: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Brown Avenue regulations
SCHEDULE I. BROWN AVENUE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   From 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday of each week,
vehicle parking for any vehicle shall be limited to a two-hour period, with the
exception of those vehicles included in the exclusions herein after named. No
vehicle shall be parked upon Brown Avenue during the specific times of 8:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday longer than two consecutive hours. The
owner of any vehicle parked upon Brown Avenue during said specified period for
a term extending longer than two consecutive hours shall be in violation of
this schedule, unless said parking shall be included within the exclusions
herein after provided.
   (B)   Vehicle parking hours on Brown Avenue within the municipality shall be
in effect only from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday of each
week and shall not be effective from 4:00 p.m. through 8:00 a.m. Monday through
Friday nor shall they be effective on Saturday or Sunday. There is further
excepted from the parking hours hereinbefore provided any and all legal
holidays, which said legal holidays shall be defined as those days set aside
and named as state holidays by the state. There is further excepted from said
parking hours, Thursday through Sunday of the Preston County Buckwheat
Festival.
   (C)   There is further excepted and excluded from the vehicle parking hours
hereinbefore set forth all vehicles titled in the name of or used by property
owners and/or residents who live on property which abuts to Brown Avenue.
Further there is excepted and excluded from said vehicle parking hours, any and
all vehicles titled in the name of or used by any guests of the residents and
property owners. Further, vehicles titled in the name of or used by any members
of the city’s Volunteer Fire Department, a non- profit corporation owning
property abutting to Brown Avenue, shall be excepted and excluded from said
vehicle parking hours.
   (D)   Any individual who parks a vehicle on Brown Avenue in excess of the
time limit herein established within this schedule and who is not included in
any of the exceptions, is found to be in violation of this schedule and shall
be fined the amount of $50 for each offense violating this schedule.
(Ord. 56, passed 8-25-1992)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CLEAN AIR REGULATION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   NOISE
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; EXCAVATIONS
      
95.   MAPLEWOOD CEMETERY
      
96.   YARD AND GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Cruelty to animals
   
90.02   Defined
   
90.03   Running at large
   
90.04   Rabid dogs
   
90.05   Cruelty to dogs and cats
   
90.06   Animals prohibited; pigeons; chickens
   
90.07   Maintenance of prohibited animals and fowl
   
90.08   Vicious and dangerous animals and reptiles
   
90.09   Noisy animals
   
90.10   Running at large
   
90.11   Abandonment
   
90.12   Slaughtering
   
90.13   Sanitary conditions
   
90.14   Bird sanctuary
   
90.15   Poisoning
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly mistreat, abandon or withhold proper
sustenance, including food, water, shelter or medical treatment necessary to
sustain normal health and fitness or to end suffering or abandon any animal to
die, or use, train or possess any domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
   (B)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same
meaning ascribed to it by W. Va. Code § 60A-1-101(d).
   (E)   The provisions of this section do not apply to farm livestock,
poultry, gaming fowl or wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept
and maintained according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry,
gaming fowl or wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane
use of animals or activities regulated under and in conformity with the
provisions of 7 U.S.C. §§ 2132 et seq. and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, as both such statutes and regulations are in effect on the
effective date of this section.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. A dog of either sex, unless otherwise specified.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 90.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large within the city.
Any dog found running at large within the city shall be secured and confined
and shall be held in accordance with guidelines of the county pound.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 RABID DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog known by him or her, or
which, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, he or she should know, to be
suffering with rabies. Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of this
division (A) shall be compelled to destroy such animal, in addition to any
penalty which may be adjudged against him or her.
   (B)   Any police officer shall kill by shooting any dog known by him or her
to be suffering with rabies.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUELTY TO DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance from any dog or cat,
irrespective of whether any such dog or cat be his or her own or that of
another person. No person shall impound or confine any such dog or cat in any
place unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a
sufficient quantity of food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick or
diseased dog or cat or be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or putting one
dog or cat to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any
dog or cat, or receive money for the admission of any person, maltreating any
other dog or cat.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19a) (Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMALS PROHIBITED; PIGEONS; CHICKENS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, harbor or maintain or knowingly permit to be
kept, harbored or maintained within the city any domestic fowl or pigeon or any
swine or other animal including, but not limited to, cattle, horses, mules,
ponies or other animals which cannot be or ordinarily are not kept and
maintained as house pets.
   (B)   There is excepted herefrom all land and the animals thereon which was
in use as farm land within the city limits prior to the adoption of this
chapter, provided that such land continues to be used as farm land.
   (C)   There is further provided, however, that the keeping, harboring or
maintaining of homing or racing pigeons shall not be prohibited so long as the
person keeping, harboring or maintaining homing or racing pigeons complies with
each of the following provisions.
      (1)   Such pigeons are not kept within 30 feet of any structure owned by
another and used for human habitation, occupation or assemblage, whether such
structure is in the same or in an adjacent block or square.
      (2)   All such birds shall be registered and shall wear a seamless leg
band.
      (3)   The structure in which such homing or racing pigeons are kept shall
be dry, well-ventilated and with windows so placed, if possible, to permit
sunlight. It shall be cleaned at least once per week between December 1 and May
1 and at least twice a week between May 1 and December 1 of each year, and more
often if necessary if so ordered by appropriate authority.
      (4)   The floor of the structure in which the homing or racing pigeons
are kept shall be covered with sand or some other type of drying agent.
      (5)   Feeders shall be used for feeding the homing or racing pigeons and
pigeon feed shall not be thrown on the floor of the structure in which the
pigeons are kept.
      (6)   No more than ten pigeons shall be kept on any premises.
      (7)   Any building or structure erected for the housing of pigeons shall
comply in all respects with the appropriate requirements of the Planning and
Zoning Code.
      (8)   In no event shall pigeons be maintained in such a fashion that the
structure in which the birds are maintained becomes offensive to view or in
some other manner becomes a nuisance or in such a fashion that an odor is
allowed to exist which is detectable on adjoining property.
   (D)   Keeping of chickens. Do not purchase chickens before the permit has
been issued.
      (1)   Any person who keeps chickens in the city shall obtain a permit
from the city prior to acquiring the chickens. No permit shall be issued to a
person, by the city, and no chickens shall be allowed to be kept unless the
owners of all residentially zoned adjacent properties (as defined below in
division (D)(3)(j)) consent in writing to the permit and this consent is
presented along with an application for a permit. Written statements waiving
the distance requirement in division (D)(3)(g) below shall also be submitted at
the time of application and become a part of the permit if issued. Application
shall be made to the City Clerk and the fee for the permit shall be $10. A
person who wishes to continue keeping chickens shall have obtained a new permit
on or before the expiration date of the previous permit. Application for a new
permit shall be pursuant to the procedures and requirements that are applicable
at the time the person applies for a new permit.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit by the city, private
restrictions on the use of property shall remain enforceable and take
precedence over a permit. Private restrictions include but are not limited to
deed restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions, neighborhood
association by-laws, and covenant deeds. A permit issued to a person whose
property is subject to private restrictions that prohibit the keeping of
chickens is void. The interpretation and enforcement of the private restriction
is the sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
      (3)   A person who keeps or houses chickens on his or her property shall
comply with all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Have been issued the permit required under division (D)(1) of
this section.
         (b)   Keep no more than six chickens.
         (c)   The principal use of the person’s property is for a single-
family dwelling. This does not apply to trailer parks, multi-use residential
property, or mixed used property.
         (d)   No person shall keep any rooster.
         (e)   The chickens shall be provided with a covered enclosure and must
be kept in the covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure at all times.
         (f)   A person shall not keep chickens in any location on the property
other than in the rear yard. For purposes of this section, REAR YARD means that
portion of a lot enclosed by the property’s rear lot line and the side lot
lines to the points where the side lot lines intersect with an imaginary line
established by the rear of the single family structure and extending to the
side lot lines.
         (g)   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located closer
than 30 feet to any property line of an adjacent property. (However, this
requirement can be waived as follows with a minimum ten feet from adjourning
property).
         (h)   All enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall be so
constructed or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure. A covered
enclosure or fenced enclosure shall not be located closer than 30 feet to any
residential structure on an adjacent property.
         (i)   If the principal use of applicant’s property is for a single-
family dwelling to obtain such a waiver the applicant shall present at the time
of applying for a permit the written statements of all adjacent landowners
(property owner and occupant of the property) that there is no objection to the
issuance of the permit.
         (j)   For purposes of this section, ADJACENT PROPERTY means all
parcels of property that the applicant’s property comes into contact with at
one or more points, except for parcels that are legally adjacent to but are in
fact separated from the applicant’s property by a public or private street and
do not have direct vision of coop/run site.
         (k)   All enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall be so
constructed or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure.
         (l)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens
that are likely to attract or to become infested with or infected by rats,
mice, or other rodents shall be protected so as to prevent rats, mice, or other
rodents from gaining access to or coming into contact with them.
         (m)   If the above requirements are not complied with, the city may
revoke any permit granted under this section and/or initiate prosecution for a
civil infraction violation.
      (4)   A person who has been issued a permit shall submit it for
examination upon demand by any city official.
      (5)   Removal of chicken coop and run. Any chicken coop or run
constructed or maintained on any premises shall be immediately removed from
said premises after the suspension, expiration or termination of the permit for
said premises, or shall be removed if chicken keeping activities have been
discontinued or abandoned. Chicken keeping activities shall be deemed to have
been discontinued or abandoned if an annual renewal chicken keeping permit is
not obtained by a permittee by the last day of June each year.
      (6)   The maximum size of the coop and pen area shall be 100 square feet.
The maximum height of pen will not exceed height of coop with a maximum height
of eight feet. The minimum coop space per chicken will be three square feet and
minimum run will be ten square feet per chicken.
      (7)   The city shall issue permit for a period not to exceed one year,
subject to annual renewal thereof. The initial permit shall automatically
expire at the end of June the initial city fiscal year and, thereafter,
renewals of said permit shall extend for city fiscal year. Cost will not be
prorated. Included with the completed application must be a scaled drawing that
indicates the location of any chicken coop and chicken run, and the size and
distance from adjoining structures and property lines, the number of chickens
to be maintained at the premises and a statement that the applicant/permittee
will at all times keep the chickens in accordance with this section and all the
conditions prescribed by the City Council, or modification thereof, and failure
to obey such conditions will constitute a violation of the provisions of this
section and grounds for cancellation of the permit. To the extent a chicken
coop or run is intended to be moveable, the scaled diagram shall indicate the
area or areas into which they may be located should the permit be granted. Any
issues/complaints file with the city must be addressed and corrected before the
new permit can be issued. Cost of the permit is $10 per year.
      (8)   Chicken coops are not allowed to be located in any part of a house,
garage or porch that is attached to single family dwelling.
      (9)   Chickens shall be kept for personal use only. Selling chickens,
eggs, manure or breeding of chickens for commercial use is prohibited.
      (10)   At no time will the premises where chickens are kept to be
maintained in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to permit
premises to be in such condition that noxious odors are earned to adjacent
public or private property. Any chicken coop or run authorized by permit under
this section maybe inspected at any reasonable time by city official or public
health official. Permit must be displayed.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996; Ord. passed 4-11-2023)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 MAINTENANCE OF PROHIBITED ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   No person, being the owner, lessor or occupant of any lot or parcel of
land within the city shall keep, harbor or maintain, or knowingly permit to be
kept, harbored or maintained any animal or fowl prohibited in the city by §
90.06 upon any such lot or parcel of land, or neglect or refuse to remove or
abate the nuisance occasioned by the keeping and maintaining of such animal or
fowl upon any such lot or parcel of land within 24 hours after such person has
knowledge or the existence of such nuisance, or within 24 hours after service
of notice thereof in writing from the City Council.
   (B)   Upon conviction under the provisions of division (A) above, the person
convicted shall, within 24 hours after such conviction, remove or cause to be
removed such animals and fowl from any such lot or parcel of land and his or
her failure to do so shall constitute a second offense against the provisions
of this section. The continued failure or refusal of such convicted person to
remove such animals and fowl from such lot or parcel of land shall constitute a
separate, distinct and additional offense for each successive 24-hour period of
such failure and refusal.
   (C)   Chickens. No person shall confine, keep or house chickens or other
domestic fowl exceeding six in number. The specific requirements pertaining to
the keeping of chickens are set forth in §
90.06 of the city code.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996; Ord. passed 4-11-2023)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS AND REPTILES.
   (A)   Vicious or dangerous animals and reptiles of any species whatsoever
are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and menace to the public safety,
and no person shall own, keep or harbor any animal or reptile of any species
whatsoever known by him or her, or which, in the exercise or reasonable
diligence he or she should know, to be vicious, dangerous or in the habit or
biting or attacking persons.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty which may be adjudged against any person
for a violation of this section, such person shall be compelled to dispose of
or to destroy such animal.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor upon or about his or her premises any animal
of any species whatsoever, which shall, by barking, howling, squalling, crying
or in any other manner whatsoever, disturb the peace, comfort, quiet or
tranquility of any neighborhood or adjoining property owner within the city,
and upon conviction thereof such person shall be subject to the penalty
provided in §
90.99, and shall be compelled to remove such animal from his or her premises or
to see that such animal ceases making such noises.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any animal or fowl owned, harbored or maintained by
him or her to run at large within the city limits.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall abandon any animal of any species whatsoever within the
city.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 SLAUGHTERING.
   No person shall slaughter any animal within the city except in places under
conditions prescribed and approved by the State Health Department.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   Each owner or occupant of premises within the city whereon any dog, cat or
other pet animal which may lawfully be harbored or maintained within the city
shall maintain the pen or other enclosure or place where such dog, cat or other
pet animal is kept in a healthful and sanitary condition at all times, free of
offensive substances and liquids, at such place and in such manner as not to
constitute a hazard to the health or safety of any person or an annoyance to
persons in the neighborhood thereof.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   No person shall trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or molest in any
manner any bird or wild fowl or rob bird nests or wild fowl nests; provided,
that if starling or similar birds are found to be congregating in such numbers
in a particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or
property in the opinion of the proper public health authorities, then in such
event such health authorities shall meet with representatives of any bird club,
garden club or humane society, or as many of those clubs as are found to exist
in the city, after having given at least three days actual notice of the time
and place of such meeting to the representatives of such clubs.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 POISONING.
   No poisoned meat or any poisonous substance shall be cast into any of the
streets, public places, lots or buildings in the city for the purpose of
destroying dogs or other animals.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates §
90.01(A) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
90.01(B) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
90.05 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both. In addition the Humane Officer may remove the dog or cat involved and
place it in the pound and such dog or cat shall not be returned to the owner or
perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but shall be put up for adoption to a
desirable home or given into the care of the humane society or upon the
recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely destroyed.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19a) (Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
CHAPTER 91: CLEAN AIR REGULATIONS
Section
Tobacco Smoke in Public Areas
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Regulation of smoking in enclosed public places
   
91.03   Regulation of smoking in enclosed places of employment
   
91.04   Where smoking not regulated
   
91.05   Posting of signs
   
91.06   Enforcement
   
91.07   Non-retaliation
   
91.08   Other applicable laws
 
   
91.99   Penalty
TOBACCO SMOKE IN PUBLIC AREAS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROPRIATE VENTILATION. Ventilation equipment sized and installed to
produce sufficient negative air pressure to effectively move air from the
smoking area to the outside as proven by a “smoke test”. Heating and cooling
systems shall have no functioning return air ducts in the smoking area.
   BAR. An area which is primarily devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of
food is only incidental to the consumption of such beverages. Although a
restaurant may contain a bar, the term BAR shall not include the restaurant
dining area.
   BUSINESS. Any entity formed for profit-making purposes.
   DINING AREA. Any enclosed area containing a counter or tables upon which
meals are served.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed for direct and indirect monetary wages or
anything of value, or any person who volunteers for a non-profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. Any entity who employs the paid or volunteer services of one of
more persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all space therein screened by
partitions which do not extend to the ceiling or are not solid, “office
landscaping” or similar structures.
   GROCERY STORE. Any supermarket, convenience store and other retail food
production and marketing establishments.
   NON-PROFIT ENTITY. Any entity whose operations are not committed to private
financial gain, A public agency is not a NON-PROFIT ENTITY within the meaning
of this definition.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment.
      (1)   A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT unless it is used
as a child care or heath care facility.
      (2)   The dining area of a restaurant is not considered a PLACE OF
EMPLOYMENT.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE.
   RESTAURANT. Any establishment which is primarily devoted to the serving of
food to the public, guests, patrons and employees as well as kitchens in which
food is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere, including catering
facilities. The term RESTAURANT shall not include a cocktail lounge or tavern
if said cocktail lounge or tavern is a bar as defined above.
   RETAIL STORE. Any establishment that sells goods or services directly to
members of the general public including, but not limited to, grocery stores,
specialty stores, department stores, pharmacies, banks, automobile dealerships,
showrooms, professional offices, service stations, repair or maintenance
stores, barber or beauty shops, cleaners and laundromats.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
   SMOKE TEST. The visual detection of the movement of a column of smoke
produced anywhere within the smoking area to the outside environment.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, plant or other smoking equipment in any manner or in any form.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.02 REGULATION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within city,
including, but not limited to, the following places:
      (1)   Grocery stores;
      (2)   Elevators;
      (3)   Restrooms;
      (4)   All means of public transit, including ticket, boarding and waiting
areas;
      (5)   Retail stores, except for areas in said stores not open to the
public;
      (6)   All waiting areas and lobbies in all business and non-profit
entities;
      (7)   Restaurants, except that they may designate a contiguous area up to
30% of the seating capacity of the restaurant as a smoking area;
      (8)   Every room, chamber, place of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings under the control of any board, council, commission,
committee, including joint committees or any political subdivision of the
state;
      (9)   All patient rooms, waiting rooms and other public areas in health
facilities, including, but not limited to, hospitals, clinics, pharmacies,
physical therapy facilities, doctor’s offices and dentists’ offices;
      (10)   Enclosed shopping malls; and
      (11)   Restaurants constructed after the date of adoption of this
subchapter, which permit smoking, shall provide a floor to ceiling physical
barrier between smoking and no-smoking areas.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any person who
controls any establishment or facility described in this section may declare
that entire establishment or facility as no smoking.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.03 REGULATION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide smoke-free
areas for no smoking employees within existing facilities to the maximum extent
possible, but employers are not required to incur any expense to make
structural or other physical modifications in providing these areas.
   (B)   No smoking areas shall be designated such that employees would not be
required to pass through smoking areas on a routine basis in order to perform
job duties or to reach a no smoking area.
   (C)   Each employer shall adopt, implement, make known and maintain a
smoking policy which recognizes that where the need to breathe smoke-free air
conflicts with the desire to smoke, the need to breathe smoke-free air shall
have priority. The policy shall include at a minimum the following
requirements.
      (1)   Any employee in a place of employment shall have the right to
designate his or her work area as a no smoking area and to post the same with
appropriate signs.
      (2)   In any dispute arising under the smoking policy, the health
concerns of the non-smoker shall be given precedence.
   (D)   The smoking policy shall be shared with any existing or prospective
employee who requests it.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, every employer
shall have the right to designate any place of employment, or any portion
thereof, as a no smoking area.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.04 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter to the
contrary, the following areas shall not be subject to the smoking restrictions
of this subchapter:
      (1)   Bars;
      (2)   Private residences, except when used as a child care or health care
facility;
      (3)   Hotel and motel rooms rented to guests;
      (4)   Retail tobacco stores; and
      (5)   The conference or meeting rooms or public and private assembly
rooms of hotels, motels and fraternal organizations while these places are
being used for private functions and the Kingwood Civic Center when used for
bingo and adult dances.
      (6)   A private enclosed office work place occupied by only one person or
occupied exclusively by smokers, even though such an office workplace may be
visited by non-smokers. However, any employee has the right to designate his or
her work area as no smoking, and smoking shall be prohibited in all public
waiting areas and lobbies.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any person who
controls any establishment described in this section may declare that entire
establishment as a no smoking facility.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.05 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Because rules regulating smoking are primarily self-enforcing, their
success depends heavily upon adequate signage.
   (B)   “Smoking” or “No Smoking” signs, whichever are appropriate, shall be
prominently posted in every building or other place where smoking is controlled
by this subchapter, including restrooms and elevators, by the owner, operator,
manager or other person having control of such building or other place.
   (C)   Every restaurant shall have posted at each entrance a prominent sign
clearly stating that a no smoking section is available, and that smoking is
allowed only in the designated smoking areas.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Although smoking regulations are primarily self-regulating through
social pressure, enforcement of this subchapter shall be the responsibility of
the City Police Department or its designee.
   (B)   Any owner, operator, manager or other person of any establishment
regulated by this subchapter shall inform persons violating this subchapter of
the appropriate provisions thereof.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.07 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or member of the
public because such person exercises any rights afforded by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.08 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking
where it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area where smoking
is prohibited by the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.08.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who controls the use of any
premises subject to regulation under §§
91.01 through
91.08 to fail to comply with any of its provisions.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.08 shall be guilty of an infraction.
      (1)   The first infraction shall result in a fine of $50.
      (2)   A second or subsequent violations within a 12-month period shall
result in a fine of $200.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2002)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Duty of property owner, tenant or possessor as to removal and the like
   
92.03   Abatement of nuisance by owners
   
92.04   Abatement by city; notice to remove generally
   
92.05   Contents of notice; service
   
92.06   Removal by city in event of owner’s failure to comply with notice;
statement of costs to owner; notice of lien and lien costs generally
   
92.07   Form of notice of lien; recordation of lien and interest thereon
   
92.08   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Any residue from fires used for cooking and/or the products from any
power plant or commercial burning enterprise whether the same originates within
the city or be hauled within the city limits by any means of conveyance
whatsoever.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce,
whether organic or inorganic, or any type of animal excreta, waste or other
organic refuse from any domestic, commercial or business enterprise.
   JUNKED VEHICLES. A motor vehicle or any other conveyance that generally
requires a state license, inspection or registration to operate on public ways,
which:
      (1)   Is discarded, wrecked, ruined, scrapped or dismantled; or
      (2)   Fails to display a state inspection sticker or displays a state
inspection which has been expired more than 60 days; or
      (3)   Fails to display a valid registration plate; or
      (4)   Is either not serving a functional purpose or use or is not in an
enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard, licensed dealership, or in
possession of a demolisher.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding, refuse lumber and the like; non-combustible trash, including, but not
limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, used parts of any type of
personal property or appliances, salvage, used parts, dumps, quantities of rock
and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery or other mineral waste; street rubbish,
including, but not limited to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basins,
contents of litter receptacles, leaves, branches or other like material.
   SALVAGE OR ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any old, unused, stripped or junked
machinery, implements and/or equipment or any personal property of any kind and
character which is no longer safely useable for the purposes for which the same
was manufactured and intended, including junked appliances, fixtures, tanks,
parts or any other kind of personal property that is no longer useable for the
purposes for which the same was manufactured or used, which is hereinafter
sometimes collectively described as JUNKED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   UNMOWN LAWN(S). Grass, weeds, or other rank or useless vegetation that
exceeds a height of eight inches (as measured from the ground), or any
vegetation that harbors insects or disease constituting a hazard to life,
health, or property.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed 1-25-2022; Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
§ 92.02 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER, TENANT OR POSSESSOR AS TO REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning,
leasing, occupying or possessing any lot, parcel of land or property, whether
vacant or occupied, or any item of junked personal property including junked
vehicles, within the city, to keep the same free at all times from any and all
refuse, garbage, ashes, junked vehicles, salvage or personal property as
hereinbefore described, including, but not limited to, any dirt, rubbish,
debris,  unmown  grass, weeds, brush, trees, plant growth, filth or other
deleterious material which may endanger or injure neighboring property or the
health, safety, morals or welfare of the residents of the city; and to cut,
remove and prevent the same from existing or accumulating in an unsightly
manner, all at the expense of such owner; and the keeping, maintenance and
storage thereof within the corporate limits of the city is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and dangerous to the public safety, health and morals.
   (B)   It shall further be the duty of every person, firm or corporation
owning, leasing, occupying or possessing any lot, parcel of land or property,
whether vacant or occupied, to be responsible for the mowing and trimming in a
proper manner of the yard and real estate of such owner and to maintain and
keep all abutting sidewalks swept reasonably clean and free of grass trimmings,
Further such owners shall be responsible for any grass clippings or trimmings
that are dropped or blown onto the roadway abutting the property and shall
clean and/or blow said grass clippings from the roadway. The maintenance of
such as herein set forth shall be all at the expense of such owner, and the
keeping and maintenance of such yard or real estate in an unsightly and
unattended manner, within the corporate limits of the city is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and dangerous to the public safety, health and morals.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, one nonconforming vehicle will be
allowed per residence provided that it is covered with a fitted cover, designed
for the specific purpose.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed 1-25-2022; Ord. passed 11-8-2022)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY OWNERS.
   The owners, tenants, possessors, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within
the corporate limits of the city upon which storage is made, as well as the
owner, keepers and lessees of any refuse, garbage or other personally involved
in such keeping, including failure to maintain mowing and the like of yards and
property (all of which ace hereinafter referred to collectively as “owners”)
shall jointly and severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of the
same from the premises where the same is located or the prompt removal of the
same from the place where the same is kept to a location without the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT BY CITY; NOTICE TO REMOVE GENERALLY.
   In the event that any owner, as hereinbefore defined, shall fail to perform
his or her duty to remove and/or abate as hereinbefore described and requited
by §§
92.02 and
92.03, the City Council, or Mayor, may give, or cause to be given, a notice in
writing to any such owner of land or personal property to remove or correct the
refuse, garbage, ashes, unsightly and unmown yards and real estate, junked
vehicles, salvage or abandoned property.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed 1-25-2022)
§ 92.05 CONTENTS OF NOTICE; SERVICE.
   (A)   The notice provided in §
92.04 shall be addressed to the owner, tenant, possessor, lessee or occupant of
any such land or personal property as hereinbefore described, and shall briefly
describe the property or the material to be cut, removed or carried away
therefrom, or nuisance to be abated, and shall fix a time within which such
cutting, removal or abatement shall be accomplished which shall not be less
than three nor more than ten days from the date of said notice, which shall be
signed by the Mayor, or other duly authorized agent of said city.
   (B)   Any such notice shall be given or served upon the offending person,
firm or corporation in the following manner:
      (1)   By any of the methods prescribed for the service of process issued
by a Clerk or a Circuit Court of this state;
      (2)   By posting a copy of said notice in a conspicuous place on the lot,
land or property upon which such material is found or such nuisance exists;
      (3)   By publication of such notice once a week for two successive weeks
in a newspaper published in and of general circulation within the city; or
      (4)   By mailing a copy of said notice addressed to such person, firm or
corporation, at his, her or its last known address by registered or certified
mail, with return receipt requested.
   (C)   Any of the herein described methods of service of said notice shall be
deemed sufficient notice to any such person, firm or corporation of the
contents thereof; however, the calculation of days to comply must be calculated
in accordance to date of actual notice being given.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008)
§ 92.06 REMOVAL BY CITY IN EVENT OF OWNER’S FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE;
STATEMENT OF COSTS TO OWNER; NOTICE OF LIEN AND LIEN COSTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Unless within ten days documented by notice, serving, mailing or
publication of the notice provided in §
92.04 and
92.05, the unmown yard and real estate, refuse, garbage, ashes, junked
vehicles, salvage or other abandoned property as hereinbefore described, is
removed from any lot, land, property or elsewhere as directed by such notice,
or such nuisance abated, the Mayor, or other authorized city agent, may
thereupon cause the same to be removed, either by the agents or employees of
the city, or otherwise, as the Mayor or other agent may decide or direct, and
the Mayor or other agenda of the city shall report the cost of any such
cutting, removing, abating or eradicating thereof to the City Clerk, or other
authorized city agent, who shall thereupon and forthwith mail a bill, voucher
or statement to any such owner of costs of such removal, the same to be
addressed to the last known address of any such owner as hereinbefore provided.
If any such bill, voucher or statement of account shall not be paid to the city
within ten days after the mailing thereof, then the City Clerk, or any other
duly authorized agent or representative of said city, shall prepare a notice of
lien against any lot, land or real property upon which any such unmown grass,
refuse, garbage, ashes, junked vehicles, salvage or other personal property is
removed or nuisance abated for the total amount of the actual cost of cutting
and removal or abatement of the same, and the city shall have the right to
remove and abate the same at its own cost, which lien shall be duly verified by
the City Clerk, Mayor or other authorized representative of the city.
   (B)   Any statement or lien shall be addressed to the person owning any such
land, lot or property within the city, and shall briefly describe the property
upon which such lien is claimed, and shall further briefly describe the work
done thereon in connection with the cleaning, cutting or removing of the
material and/or property so removed or nuisance abated by the city, and shall
show the cost of such work. The lien shall further include the clerical costs
of the City Clerk or other authorized officer, not to exceed the sum of $30 and
a fee for the search of records to ascertain the owners of such property not to
exceed the sum of $100.
   (C)   The notice shall further include a statement of the costs of
recordation of any lien, as well as the notice of lien when so prepared, as
aforesaid, which thereupon shall be recorded in the proper lien book in the
office of the Clerk of the County Court. Any such notice of lien from the date
of its recordation shall be a first lien upon any real estate against which the
same is recorded after state, county and municipal taxes and municipal
assessments, if any, upon any such land, lot or property described in such
lien, and any such lien may be collected in the same manner as liens for taxes
or paving assessments under the statutes of the state, or by a civil action in
a court of record or before a magistrate, including a Mayor, or in any other
manner which is now or may hereafter be provided for the collection of debts or
accounts due a municipality under the statutes of this state.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed 1-25-2022)
§ 92.07 FORM OF NOTICE OF LIEN; RECORDATION OF LIEN AND INTEREST THEREON.
   (A)   The notice of lien provided for in §
92.06 hereof shall be sufficient of in form and substance as follows:
TO: ____________________________
Notice is hereby given, that in accordance with the provisions of Ord. 16, the
City of Kingwood, West Virginia, hereby claims a lien to secure the payment of
the total sum of _____ dollars upon your interest in the following described
property, situated in the City of Kingwood, Preston County, West Virginia, and
being briefly described as follows: (Description, Lot and Block Number or
otherwise)
You are further notified that the items of said lien are as follows:
Cost of cutting and removal of (describe) $_______
Cost of Clerk in preparation of lien and  $_______
notices
Title report                              $_______
Service of notice                         $_______
Recordation of lien                       $_______
This is a lien after state, county and municipal taxes, and paving assessments
on said lot, tract or parcel of land and shall bear interest at the rate of ten
percent (10%) per annum from the date hereof until paid.
You are further notified that said lien may be paid, and release thereof had,
at the office of the City Clerk, City of Kingwood, West Virginia.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Kingwood, West Virginia, has caused its name to
be
hereto signed by _______, and its corporate seal hereto affixed, this _______
day of _______, 20___.
THE CITY OF KINGWOOD
By _______                                 
ATTEST:                                   Its ________________________________.
City Clerk ____________________            
 
   (B)   Any such lien shall be recorded and indexed in the trust lien book, or
other book, as provided in §
92.06.
   (C)   Any lien claimed hereunder and assessment shall bear interest at the
rate of 10% from the date of claiming thereof, and any such lien shall be
indexed and recorded by the Clerk of the County Court in the same manner as
liens for paving assessments are indexed as provided in the statutes of the
state.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008)
§ 92.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on January 25, 2022.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. passed 1-25-2022)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If the owners of any such property, as defined in §
92.01, whether real or personal, allow any such nuisance to exist or fail to
abate said nuisance upon notice from the city, they, and each of them, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined or
imprisoned as provided in this section of each offense; and a separate offense
shall be deemed to be committed on each day that such a nuisance is permitted
to exist on and after the commencement thereof. The city, in addition to all of
the other remedies herein provided, shall have the right to apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for injunctive relief for the abatement of any such
nuisance as provided in this section.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies and lien assessments hereinbefore provided
in this chapter, and the methods of removal available to the city herein set
forth, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, or any section hereof; or to fail to comply
with any notice herein provided, and any person, firm or corporation shall,
upon any warrant drafted on any violation hereof, be required to appear before
the Police Judge within said city; and upon conviction of a violation of any
section hereof, shall be fined by such Police Judge or any other court having
jurisdiction hereunder, including the Circuit Court of the county, not less
than $25 nor more than $500, for the second offense of not abating the
nuisance, and not less than $50 nor more than $500, for the third offense of
not abating the nuisance, or may be sentenced not less than one day nor more
than 30 days in the county jail of the county, or may be both fined and
imprisoned within the aforesaid limits, in the discretion of the Police Judge
or court; and in addition thereto shall be required to pay the costs of the
prosecution.
   (C)   Each day that any person, firm or corporation shall fail to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, or any section thereof, or any of the
duties, obligations or provisions hereof, or shall neglect or refuse to obey
and comply with any notice issued under the provisions hereof, shall constitute
a separate offense hereunder.
   (D)   The imposing of any assessment, lien, fine or other penalty under the
provisions of this chapter shall not excuse the violation, neglect or
noncompliance therewith; nor shall the same permit or allow the continuance of
any violation hereunder, and any person, firm or corporation violating,
neglecting or failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or any
section hereof, shall be required to correct, or remedy such violations,
neglects or defaults as provided for herein. The application or use of the
assessment lien, or the invoking of the hereinbefore mentioned penal provisions
hereof, shall not be held to prevent the removal or eradication of the
prohibited matters, conditions or provisions hereof, and the city shall have
the right in addition to any other remedy herein provided, to proceed in any
court having jurisdiction for the abatement of the nuisance herein provided by
any lawful procedure available under the statutes of the state.
(Ord. 16, passed 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 93: NOISE
Section
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Loud and unnecessary noises prohibited
   
93.04   Certain loud and disturbing noises enumerated
   
93.05   Measurement and control of noise
   
93.06   Applicability of chapter
   
93.07   Exceptions and special waivers
   
93.08   Enforcement
   
93.09   Conflicts
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The city finding that excessive levels of sound are detrimental to the
physical, mental and social well being of the residents of the city as well as
to their comfort, living conditions, general welfare and safety, hereby
declares it to be necessary to provide for the greater and more effective
regulation of excessive sounds through the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighted network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motor vehicle designed for off highway use
and designed for operator use only with no passengers, having a seat or saddle
designed to be straddled by the operator, and handlebars for steering control.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration, demolition or similar action.
   CONTINUOUS SOUND. Denotes a sound the intensity of which remains essentially
constant during a given period of time. CONTINUOUS SOUND shall be measured by
the slow response setting of a sound level meter.
   DAYTIME. Denotes the local time of day between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m. on weekdays and between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
Saturdays, Sundays and local legal holidays.
   DBA (DECIBEL-A-WEIGHTED). Sound pressure level as measured on the “A” scale
of a sound level meter manufactured in accordance with the specifications of
the American National Standards Institute, Inc. (ANSI), Type 2, ANSI-SI.4
(1971), calibrated within two hours of being used for measurement. Unless
otherwise noted, measurements shall be made in the slow response mode of the
meter.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit of sound pressure, equal to 20 times the logarithm to
the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the reference
pressure which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter).
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
   EMERGENCY SIGNAL DEVICE. Any audible warning device, such as a gong, whistle
or siren or any air horn or any similar device.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
   IMPULSIVE SOUND. Sound of short duration, usually less than one second, with
an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of IMPULSIVE SOUND include
explosions, drop forge impacts and the discharge of firearms.
   MOBILE SOURCE. Any moving sound source on a public right-of-way.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. As defined in the Traffic Regulation Code of the state, or
any vehicles which are propelled or drawn by mechanical equipment, such as, but
not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semitrailers, campers,
motorcycles, minibikes, go-carts, snowmobiles, mopeds, amphibious craft on
land, dune buggies, all-terrain vehicles or racing vehicles.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a trailer.
   NIGHTTIME. Those hours excluded from the definition of DAYTIME.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause adverse psychological effect on humans.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivities;
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
      (4)   Exceeds the applicable maximum permissible sound levels as they
appear in the table in §
93.05.
   NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE. Any area designated for the purpose of ensuring
exceptional quiet and shall include schools and churches while the same are in
use, any hospital and any nursing home; provided, that conspicuous signs are
displayed on the exterior realty of any such school, church, hospital or
nursing home which clearly notifies a member of the general public of its use.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm or any legal
successor, representative or agent of the foregoing.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, alley, sidewalk
or public space which has been dedicated for use by the general public and the
dedication of which has been accepted by the appropriate governmental entity.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but it does not include intra-building real
property division.
   SMALL POWER EQUIPMENT. Any motorized or engine powered device, including,
but not limited to, lawn mowers lawn and garden tools, riding lawn tractors and
power saws, excluding other motor vehicles.
   SOUND. Vibratory disturbance (including an oscillation) in the pressure and/
or density of liquid or gas or in the particular displacement of solid or
liquid. Such disturbance takes place at a rate between approximately 20 and
20,000 hertz (cycles per second); and the physiological perception of such a
vibration of displacement.
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any motorized or engine powered device,
including, but not limited to, lawn mowers, lawn and garden tools, riding lawn
tractors and power saws, excluding other motor vehicles.
   SOUND LEVEL. That which is measured with the “A” weighting network on a
sound level meter unless otherwise specified.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. The instrument, meeting the requirements of ANSE S1.4-
1971 Type II rating, used for making sound level measurements.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The intensity in decibels (dB) of a sound.
   SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space, as produced by
sound energy.
   STATIONARY SOURCE. Any sound source operating or occurring on any public or
private property, not including a public right-of-way.
   WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
   ZONING DISTRICT. And refers to the scheme of land use classification
contained in the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 93.03 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued, any loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety or others,
within the city.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 CERTAIN LOUD AND DISTURBING NOISES ENUMERATED.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary
noises in violation of §
93.03, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing
frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
persons in the vicinity;
   (B)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud
and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (C)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
snowblower, small power equipment or similar device used outdoors in
residential areas between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following
day so as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary;
   (D)   Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale;
   (E)   Engine repair and testing. It shall be unlawful for any person to
repair, rebuild or test any engine so as to create a noise disturbance;
   (F)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (G)   Horns and signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any
such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; the sounding of
any such device for any unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; the use of
any signaling device except one operated by hand or electricity; the use of any
horn, whistle or other device operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any
signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up;
   (H)   Loudspeakers/public address system.
      (1)   Using or operating for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system or similar device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:
00 a.m. the following day, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone; and
      (2)   Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system or similar device such that the sound therefrom creates a
noise disturbance across a real property boundary or within a noise sensitive
zone; or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following day on a
public right-of-way or public space.
   (I)   Radios, musical instruments and similar devices. Operating, playing or
permitting the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum,
musical instrument, sound amplifier or similar device which produces,
reproduces or amplifies sound:
      (1)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day in
such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real property boundary
or within a noise sensitive zone (except for activities open to the public and
for which a permit has been issued by “appropriate authority” according to
criteria set forth in §
93.07(D));
      (2)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet from
such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-way or
public space, or in a boat on public waters; or
      (3)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier.
   (J)   Yelling and shouting. Yelling, shouting, whistling, hooting or
generally creating a racket on public rights-of-way or public spaces between
the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. the following day
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
business or residence, or of any person in the vicinity.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 MEASUREMENT AND CONTROL OF NOISE.
   (A)   Noise prohibited. No person shall make, continue or cause to be made
or continued any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth herein unless
such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health, safely
or property.
   (B)   Measurement and control. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause
a sound from a stationary source which exceeds any sound level as set forth in
the applicable column in the following table titled when measured, at any point
within any other property affected by the sound. Measurement shall be made by a
duly authorized individual who is knowledgeable in the proper use of the
measurement equipment. Measurement shall be made in slow response, A-weighting,
except in the case of impulsive sound which shall be measured with an impulsive
sound level meter, ANSI S1.4-1971. Octave band measurements, where noted, shall
be made with an octave band analyzer.
 
Maximum Permissible Sound Levels from Stationary Sources
Zoning District Time of Day Continuous Sound (dBA) Impulsive Sound (dBA)
All business    All         65                     90
All industrial  All         70                     110
All residential All         60                     80
 
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 93.06 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   The provision of this chapter shall not apply in using any of the sound
equipment mentioned and described herein where such equipment is being used for
civil defense or in the event of a disaster or other emergency or is being used
by any governmental agency or at any public meeting.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 93.07 EXCEPTIONS AND SPECIAL WAIVERS.
   (A)   Exceptions. The following uses of an activity shall be exempt from
noise level regulations:
      (1)   Noise of safety signals and warning devices;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized vehicle, when responding to an
emergency;
      (3)   Noises resulting from the provisions of municipal services;
      (4)   Any noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and/or for which a waiver has been granted by the city;
      (5)   The unamplified human voice (except as specified in §
93.04(J));
      (6)   Parades and public gatherings for which a special waiver has been
issued; and
      (7)   Bells, chimes, carillons while being used for religious purposes or
in conjunction with religious services, or for national celebrations or public
holidays, and those bells, chimes, carillons that are presently installed, and
in use, for any purpose.
   (B)   Exemptions for time to comply. Upon good cause shown by the owner or
responsible party for any noise source, the City Council shall have the power
to grant an exemption from the requirements of this chapter in order to allow
sufficient time for installation of needed control equipment, facilities or
modifications to achieve compliance, not to exceed ten days, provided that such
exemption may be renewed as necessary, but only if satisfactory progress toward
compliance is shown.
   (C)   Use exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from
noise level regulations:
      (1)   Lawn maintenance equipment when it is functional within
manufacturer’s specifications and with all mufflers and noise reducing
equipment in use and in property operating condition between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Nonamplified crowd noises resulting from the activities such as
those planned by day care centers, schools governmental or community groups;
and
      (3)   Amplified announcements, electronically amplified announcements at
athletic or special events from 8:00 a.m. to 12:01 a.m.
   (D)   Special waivers.
      (1)   The City Manager shall have the authority, consistent with this
chapter, to grant special waivers.
      (2)   Any person seeking a special waiver pursuant to this chapter shall
file a written application with the City Manager. The written application shall
contain information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the special waiver is sought into compliance with this
chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the
community, or for another purpose.
      (3)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the City
Manager shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community and other
persons of not granting the special waiver against the adverse impact on the
health, safety and welfare of persons affected, the adverse impact of granting
the special waiver.
      (4)   Special waivers shall be granted by notice to the applicant and may
include all necessary conditions, including time limits on the permitted
activity. The special waiver shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicants. Noncompliance with any condition of the
special waiver shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this chapter regulating the source of sounds or activity for
which the special waiver was granted.
      (5)   The City Manager may issue guidelines defining the. procedures to
be followed in applying for special waivers and the criteria in declaring
whether to grant a special waiver.
   (E)   Social gatherings and parties.
      (1)   Any person who is planning a social gathering or party at which it
is anticipated that the noise levels will exceed those set forth in §
93.05 herein may file a written application with the City Manager for a special
waiver from such noise levels.
      (2)   Any person seeking such a special waiver shall indicate in his or
her application to the City Manager the specific reason why he or she will not
be able to meet the established noise levels. The applicant shall also include
a written statement that he or she has personally contacted all residents of
properties abutting the property in question and none oppose the special waiver
being requested. For purposes of the preceding sentence, when an applicant’s
property abuts on a street the applicant will also be required to notify and
receive permission from residents directly across such street.
      (3)   Should the applicant be granted a special waiver pursuant to this
division (E), it will be subject to the condition that any such special waiver
will expire at 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday evenings and midnight on
Friday and Saturday evenings.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 93.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates any portion of this chapter shall receive a
verbal order to cease or abate the noise immediately or within a reasonable
time period, except that after 8:00 p.m. and until 8:00 a.m., any person
designated to enforce this chapter need not issue a verbal order to cease or
abate the noise before charging any person with a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   If the order to cease or abate the noise is not complied with, or is
complied with and then violated again within 60 days, the person or persons
responsible for the noise under §
93.03 shall be charged with a violation of this chapter and be subject to the
fine provided in §
93.99.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 CONFLICTS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with any other provision of the city ordinances existing on the effective date
of this chapter, the provision which establishes the more stringent standard
for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall
prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with any other provision of the city ordinances existing on the
effective date of this chapter health and safety of the people, the provision
of this chapter shall prevail and such other provisions are hereby declared to
be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished in accordance with §
10.99, if no specific penalty is provided. Each day such violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   (B)   As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of device,
instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any provision of this chapter,
which operation or maintenance causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable
persons of normal sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort, repose, health
or peace of residents in the area, shall be deemed, and is declared to be a
public nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining
order or injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1-G, passed 3-12-1996)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; EXCAVATIONS
Section
Development, Construction and Replacement of Sidewalks
   
94.01   Incorporation of state law
   
94.02   Specifications for sidewalk construction and renewal
   
94.03   Notice to property owner of needed work
   
94.04   Enforcement
Construction and Maintenance of City Streets
   
94.15   Clearing; tree removal and grubbing
   
94.16   Excavating and grading
   
94.17   Base and bituminous mix
   
94.18   Repaving of streets
   
94.19   Engineering design
   
94.20   Authority of Supervisor of Street Services
Use of Streets and Sidewalks
   
94.35   Poles and wires as obstructions to street
   
94.36   Requirement of permit
   
94.37   Application for permits
   
94.38   Compliance with permit
   
94.39   Obstruction or damage to sidewalks
   
94.40   Restoration of work area
   
94.41   Replacement of paved or improved street
   
94.42   Application to driveways
   
94.43   Liability to costs incurred by city
   
94.44   Use of machinery with tracks or metal cleats
Street Numbers
   
94.55   Display required
 
   
94.99   Penalty
DEVELOPMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS
§ 94.01 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   By adoption of this subchapter, there is incorporated herein and made
a part hereof all sections of W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 18, §§ 1 through 22
(inclusive), as may be applicable in regard to the building and renewal of
sidewalks.
   (B)   All building and renewal of sidewalks built in accordance with the
aforereferenced chapter of the West Virginia Code, and further all sidewalks
built or renewed within the municipality by any person, firm, business,
partnership or corporation, shall be built, repaired or renewed in accordance
with the following specifications as set forth herein.
(Ord. 30, passed 7-23-1985; Ord. 30, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 94.02 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All applicable provisions of the general conditions and other
portions of the contract documents are a part of and govern work under this
section.
      (2)   (a)   All work shall be the responsibility of the general
contractor.
         (b)   The work in this contract shall, in general, consist of, but not
be limited to, the following:
            1.   Formwork;
            2.   Poured in place concrete; and
            3.   Tear out old walks and dispose of them in a workmanlike
manner.
   (B)   Cement. Cement shall be air entrained portland cement-Type 1A.
      (1)   Aggregates.
         (a)   Fine aggregates. Sand shall consist of grains of sand, free from
deleterious material; and
         (b)   Coarse aggregate. Shall be hard, durable, uncoated crushed
stone.
      (2)   Mixing water. Water shall be clean, taken from a source suitable
for domestic use.
   (C)   Concrete reinforcement.
      (1)   Reinforcement. Reinforcing shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Welded wire fabric reinforcing. Steel wire shall be spot welded
at intersections and of size indicated. No. 10 gauge, six by six inch wire mesh
shall be used as shown on prints; or
         (b)   Fiberglass reinforcing.
            1.   In the alternative, the concrete shall be mixed with
fiberglass.
            2.   The ratio of the mixture shall be one pound of fiberglass per
one yard of concrete.
   (D)   Mixing concrete.
      (1)   General. Except as otherwise specified, concrete shall be ready-
mixed or job mixed at the contractors option, and with the requirements of the
American Concrete Institute Building Code.
      (2)   Job-mixed concrete. Mix all concrete in an approved, batch type,
mechanical mixer equipped with water measuring and timing devices.
      (3)   The city will require six tests, three cylinders each, at city time
scheduling and at contractors expense for every 40 yards of concrete.
   (E)   Transporting concrete. Concrete shall be conveyed from mixer to place
of final deposit by the most expedient means to avoid separation of aggregates,
setting of mixture of loss of material.
   (F)   Concrete formwork. All forming work is to comply with recommended
practice of concrete forming.
   (G)   Relocations.
      (1)   The city will remove all parking meters where sidewalks are to be
placed.
      (2)   The city will furnish three-inch sleeves to be anchored and
installed in concrete by the contractor.
      (3)   The contractor will work with the water company, gas company, city
or any utility company, for raising or lowering meters, values, lines and the
like.
   (H)   Strength and consistency.
      (1)   Strength.
         (a)   Except as otherwise specified, concrete shall have the
compressive strength at seven days and 28 days.
         (b)   Compressive strength of all concrete, for all walks, shall be
3,500 pound concrete.
      (2)   Exposed concrete. Exposed concrete, all walks, shall contain 5%,
plus or minus one, entrained air through the use of air intrained cement, or an
air entrained admixture conforming to A.S.T.M.
      (3)   Required. All concrete to be 3,500 pound concrete.
   (I)   Removal of forms. Forms shall be removed in a workmanlike manner, so
not to chip or damage concrete in any way.
   (J)   Concrete walks.
      (1)   Concrete walks shall consist of poured concrete, four inches
minimum depth, with a broom finish across the short direction of walk with
tooled edge.
      (2)   The concrete shall be screened to proper elevation. While concrete
is still plastic, the surface shall be floated with wood, cork or metal float.
      (3)   The subgrade shall be uniformly grazed and four inches of clean
three-fourths-inch stone.
      (4)   Provide one-half inch expansion (one-half inch by four-inch
asphalt) at entrance platforms, steps, intersection, with driveway or street
sidewalks, and at the changes of walk widths.
      (5)   A ramp of a maximum height of 30 degrees must be at all crosswalks
and said ramp shall be one and one-half times the width of a wheelchair or the
width of the sidewalk, whichever is greater.
   (K)   (1)   Below are design drawings, which more accurately, by picture,
explain and illustrate specific requirements of this subchapter for all
sidewalks built or renewed within the municipality, and said drawings shall be
adhered to as though they are set forth in writing within this subchapter.
      (2)   The Supervisor of City Services shall have the authority to alter
the design on specific requirements of this subchapter upon his or her
determination that abnormal circumstances exist.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ab40f3c6294e0f64503f8145f44a4f32ffe0bb46/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1531.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ab40f3c6294e0f64503f8145f44a4f32ffe0bb46/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1533.png]
(Ord. 30, passed 7-23-1985; Ord. 30, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 94.03 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER OF NEEDED WORK.
   All spot repair work which may be performed by the municipality or persons,
firm, business, partnership or corporation abutting said sidewalk, shall be in
accordance with the specifications of this subchapter and shall match the
existing work and grade of said existing sidewalk.
(Ord. 30, passed 7-23-1985; Ord. 30, passed 7-27-1999)
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to the Council of said municipality adhering to the
specifications of the West Virginia Code, as hereinbefore referred to, said
Council shall cause to be mailed a written notice to all abutting property
owners who abut to the area in which the Council has determined that the
present sidewalk should be renewed or repaired, and said notice shall be sent
by United States mail to the owner of said abutting property at said owner’s
last known address. Said notice shall contain the fact that the Council has
determined that the sidewalk abutting said property owner is in need of renewal
or repair and that a discussion of such will be held on a specific date of a
regular Council meeting. Further, said notice shall state that the owner may
voluntarily renew or repair said sidewalk, if done in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter under the supervision of the Supervisor of City
Services. Said notice shall further advise the property owner that should said
property owner fail to voluntarily agree to make such renewal or repairs, that
the Council will consider an ordinance mandating said repairs, in accordance
with the West Virginia Code. Said notice provided for by this section shall be
prior to any action taken, as provided for by the W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 18.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the municipality, Supervisor of City
Services, to enforce this subchapter in regard to the specifications of the
construction or renewal of any sidewalk within the municipality. Upon said
Supervisor observing that a sidewalk within the municipality has not been built
or repaired in accordance with the proper specifications herein contained, the
Supervisor shall cause to be served, by written notice, either personally
served or mailed by the United States mail upon the person so constructing or
repairing said sidewalk, and upon the abutting property owner upon the person
responsible for having said sidewalk built or repaired, and that said notice
shall make said persons aware that the sidewalk is not being built or repaired
in accordance with the specifications of the municipality, and that said
construction shall be stopped immediately until such time as the specifications
of the municipality have been incorporated within the plans for said sidewalk.
   (C)   Should the Supervisor, upon notice being received by the appropriate
person, firm, business, corporation or partnership, observe that said notice is
not being adhered to, then said Supervisor shall have the responsibility and
authority to seek an injunction against said person, firm, business,
corporation or partnership, to enforce the specifications of this subchapter.
   (D)   It is further ordained that this subchapter shall apply to all
sidewalks that are so developed and repaired within the municipal corporation.
(Ord. 30, passed 7-23-1985; Ord. 30, passed 7-27-1999) Penalty, see §
94.99
CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF CITY STREETS
§ 94.15 CLEARING; TREE REMOVAL AND GRUBBING.
   (A)   All trees and stumps shall be removed from said roadway or street area
which is within the construction site, which site includes the roadway,
drainage area and all appurtenant area thereto in regard to the building and
maintenance of said roadway. Trees, shrubs and the like that could be hazardous
within said construction site right-of-way may be removed upon the direction
and approval of the Supervisor of City Services.
   (B)   In the building of a new roadway, the topsoil shall be removed to a
minimum of eight inches depth.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-24-1994)
§ 94.16 EXCAVATING AND GRADING.
   (A)   During the cut and fill operation of said roadway-construction, all
existing and new utility lines shall be protected from any damage by the
contractor.
   (B)   There shall be removed from the construction site of said roadway all
unsuitable soils, debris and all excess material that may be harmful, damaging
or inappropriate in the construction of said roadway.
   (C)   Said roadway shall be appropriately graded to remove all unnecessary
bumps, hills, dips and other such problems which are not advantageous to the
building of an appropriate roadway.
   (D)   All wet weather springs or wet conditions of any kind which are
discovered within the construction site of said roadway must be dug out, water
piped to permit appropriate drainage and said area filled with stone and
compacted in a proper way.
   (E)   The grades of said roadway shall be uniform levels or slopes between
elevation points or existing grades and shall consider driveways, existing
roadways and other pertinent points in determining the location and grade of
the newly constructed roadway.
   (F)   Engineering designs for said roadway shall indicate elevation points;
however, should certain points not be indicated, then said grades shall be
directed by the Supervisor of City Services.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-24-1994)
§ 94.17 BASE AND BITUMINOUS MIX.
   (A)   The base of said roadway shall consist of two-inch stone (in size) and
three-inch stone (in size) compacted to a minimum of six inches in depth.
Following the compacting of the two-inch and three-inch stone, there shall be a
layer of one-half-inch stone (in size) crusher run to a depth of one inch to
fill all voids in said roadway.
   (B)   The hot laid asphaltic base shall be of a minimum of two and one-half
inches compacted over the base described in division (A) above.
   (C)   A hot laid asphaltic wearing course placed on top of the hot laid
asphaltic base shall be a minimum of one and one-half inches compacted.
   (D)   All compaction of items hereinbefore referred to be compacted shall be
done with a minimum of a ten-ton tandem roller.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-24-1994)
§ 94.18 REPAVING OF STREETS.
   (A)   When any soft areas become apparent or any part of the pavement
becomes badly broken and loose, such area must be dug out and removed from the
said roadway.
   (B)   Such areas which are dug out and removed must be filled and properly
compacted with stone to a depth of three inches below the top of the existing
pavement.
   (C)   The area between the three inches below the top of the existing
pavement must then be filled with asphaltic concrete and may be laid with the
top layer or wearing course.
   (D)   All repavement shall be done with hot asphaltic wearing course
compacted to two inches.
   (E)   All compaction herein referred to must be compacted with a minimum of
a ten-ton tandem roller.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-24-1994)
§ 94.19 ENGINEERING DESIGN.
   (A)   An engineering design shall be developed for all new roadways built in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Said design shall include the width of said roadway, the drainage
area, the grade elevations and shall illustrate that the minimum of the
requirements herein stated are met within said design for the paving of said
roadway.
   (C)   Said design shall further include a turning radius on all roadways,
which said radius shall be one-half of the width of the road which shall
actually be designed as being a point located at the turning corner which is
one-half of the road width away from each of said roads on either side of the
turn. Once said point is determined, then perpendicular lines shall be
established to each of said roads to determine a point upon said roadway. An
arch shall then be established between said two points to provide the turning
radius on each roadway.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-24-1994)
§ 94.20 AUTHORITY OF SUPERVISOR OF STREET SERVICES.
   (A)   The Supervisor of City Services shall have the right to make all
necessary changes at the roadway construction site as may be necessary due to
specific circumstances that may arise following the beginning of said
construction, provided that said changes are minor changes in regard to this
subchapter.
   (B)   Should the Supervisor find that major changes are required due to
specific circumstances in the construction of said roadway, said Supervisor
shall present said major change to the Council of said municipality for
approval in the engineering design of the change as required.
(Ord. 31, passed 5-24-1994)
USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 94.35 POLES AND WIRES AS OBSTRUCTIONS TO STREET.
   It shall be the duty of all telephone, telegraph, cable and electric
companies, and any other person, firm or corporation to remove and reset
telephone, telegraph and other poles and wires connected therewith when the
same constitute an obstruction to the use of the streets by the traveling
public.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 REQUIREMENT OF PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit as in herein required, or without complying
with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance from the
terms of any such permit.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk, and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the
purpose therefor and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work in the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 94.38 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way contrary to
or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. No injuries shall be done
to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making of such excavations or tunnels;
and notice shall be given to the persons maintaining any such pipes, cables or
conduits or to the city department or officer charged with the care thereof,
which are or may be endangered or affected by the making of any such excavation
or tunnel before such pipes, cables or conduits shall be disturbed. No
unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or the roots
thereof.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.39 OBSTRUCTION OR DAMAGE TO SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. Whenever any section of sidewalk is broken or busted during the course
of excavation, tunneling or the removing and resetting of poles, then the
complete section of the sidewalk so broken or busted will be replaced in such
manner and form as to be equal (or better) to the quality and quantity of the
section replaced.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 94.40 RESTORATION OF WORK AREA.
   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley or other public place in the city shall restore the
surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills shall
be properly tapped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be
left in the ground.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 94.41 REPLACEMENT OF PAVED OR IMPROVED STREET.
   (A)   Any opening in any paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface replaced by the applicant under the supervision of the
Supervisor of City Service in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Backfill shall be of selected granular material such as concrete
sand or fine aggregate free of large lumps, clods or rock, and shall be
moistened before compaction if required by the engineer. Special care shall be
taken to thoroughly compact the material under the haunches of the pipe by
bringing the fill up evenly on both sides of the pipe for it full strength.
This fill shall continue until the fill is level with the top of pipe. At this
point, backfill shall be placed in even successive four inch layers not
exceeding four inches in depth and thoroughly compacted with improved
mechanical tamper. Any nonmetallic pipe shall have a tracer wire laid with the
pipe.
      (2)   All excess debris and materials will be removed and immediate area
will be cleared in a manner to be approved by the Supervisor of City Services.
The pavement shall be replaced in successive layers of compacted fill to top of
trench followed with four inches of 2500 portland concrete and two inches of
compacted bituminous wearing course surface, moistened and compacted with a
pneumatic tamper.
   (B)   The cutting of the pavement, the backfilling, and the replacing of the
pavement shall be done in accordance with the requirements detailed in the
figure below, dated August 1, 1983.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ab40f3c6294e0f64503f8145f44a4f32ffe0bb46/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1535.png]
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 94.42 APPLICATION TO DRIVEWAYS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to any driveways as well as
city streets.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 94.43 LIABILITY TO COSTS INCURRED BY CITY.
   Any excavation or tunneling that is not replaced in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter may be done by the city at the cost and expense of the
person, firm or corporation for whom said excavation or tunneling was done. The
imposing of any fine under the terms of this subchapter shall not operate as a
release or relieve in any manner the responsibility of the replacement of the
pavement of surface in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
§ 94.44 USE OF MACHINERY WITH TRACKS OR METAL CLEATS.
   Any machinery with tracks or metal cleats or braces used in any such
excavation or tunneling shall have rubber mounts or blocks under such tracks,
cleats and braces.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
STREET NUMBERS
§ 94.55 DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Post Office has requested that the property within the city be
numbered for mail delivery purposes. The Council of the city finds that the
numbering of and the displaying of numbers upon property for location purposes
would be beneficial to the municipality.
   (B)   All real estate located within the limits of the municipality shall be
given a number identifying the specific residence or building located upon said
real estate as located upon specific streets and all of said assigned numbers
shall be displayed upon residences and buildings located within the
municipality.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-12-1966)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
94.35 through
94.44 shall be fined not more than $100 for a first offense, and for a second
or subsequent offense occurring within a 12-month period shall be fined not
less than $100 or more than $500. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 11, passed 8-23-1983)
CHAPTER 95: MAPLEWOOD CEMETERY
Section
   
95.01   Cost of opening and closing graves
   
95.02   Selling and price of grave lots
   
95.03   Requirement of outside burial container
   
95.04   Special section for burial of cremation remains
   
95.05   Requirement of marker foundation
   
95.06   Perpetual care fund
§ 95.01 COST OF OPENING AND CLOSING GRAVES.
   (A)   The opening and closing of regular adult internment spaces (i.e.
graves) within said Maplewood Cemetery shall be conducted by the employees of
the city for which charges will be set by the city and said charges shall be
paid for in advance of the opening of a grave by an individual or by a funeral
director. The cost for said opening and closing by the city shall be in the
amount of $600 for each opening and closing of a regular adult burial grave,
with the exceptions as hereinafter identified. The grave site is dug as six
feet deep, four feet wide and eight feet long.
   (B)   The opening and closing of other grave sites shall follow all
guidelines set forth herein in regard as to who opens the grave and how charges
are to be paid; however, charges for graves other than regular adult grave
sites are to be charged as follows:
      (1)   Opening and closing for an infant container up to 42 inches is the
amount of $400 with a grave site dug as three feet deep, two feet wide and
three and one-half feet long;
      (2)   Opening and closing for an oversized casket and container is $700
with a grave site dug as necessary; and
      (3)   Opening and closing for cremation remains is $300.
   (C)   Should the burial in the cemetery occur after 3:00 p.m. on a week day,
there shall be an additional charge of $200 added to each opening and closing
cost as set forth above to account for this special time of burial.
   (D)   Should the burial in the cemetery occur on the days of Saturday,
Sunday and/or Monday there shall be an additional charge of $275 added to each
opening and closing cost as set forth above to account for this special time of
burial. Monday is included as a special time of burial since the opening of the
grave for a Monday burial will have to occur over the weekend when city offices
are closed. Should the burial in the cemetery occur on certain holidays, being
days that the offices of the city are closed for a specific named holiday,
there shall be an additional charge of $275 added to each opening and closing
cost to account for this special day of burial.
   (E)   In addition to the payment of the cost of the opening and closing of
the grave site together with any applicable additional costs, the owner of the
grave site or his or her authorized representative or a representative of the
funeral home handling the burial shall execute an authorization and release for
interment. This document describes the location of the burial plot and places
responsibility for ascertaining the location thereof on the owner or his or her
representative. This executed document must be presented to the city at the
time that the burial costs are paid. The city will not open a grave lot prior
to obtaining an executed authorization and release for interment. A copy of
said authorization is adopted by reference and made a part thereof as if set
out in full herein.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-27-2018)
§ 95.02 SELLING AND PRICE OF GRAVE LOTS.
   (A)   The Maplewood Cemetery has been mapped and plotted into individual
lots be separate divisions of the cemetery, which said divisions and plots have
been platted and are of record in the City Clerk’s office, and that said
individual lots in said cemetery are available to be purchased by any
individual, firm or corporation and that each said lot shall sell for the price
of $500 each.
   (B)   The Clerk of the city shall, upon selling a lot or lots of said
Maplewood Cemetery prepare a deed of conveyance for said cemetery lot, which
said deed shall be under the supervision of the City Attorney and shall be
executed by the Mayor of said city to convey clear title to said cemetery lot
to the purchaser of said lot.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-27-2018)
§ 95.03 REQUIREMENT OF OUTSIDE BURIAL CONTAINER.
   It is herein provided that an outside burial container must be used for all
burials within the Maplewood Cemetery. It shall be the rule and regulation of
the Maplewood Cemetery that only a cement box, cement or steel vault, or other
vault built of a reasonable facsimile shall be used as an outer burial
container within the Maplewood Cemetery. There shall not be permitted any
wooden box to be used as an outer burial container.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-27-2018)
§ 95.04 SPECIAL SECTION FOR BURIAL OF CREMATION REMAINS.
   (A)   Maplewood Cemetery shall maintain a special section within the
cemetery for the burial of cremation remains.
   (B)   Said individual cremation lots in said cemetery are available to be
purchased by any individual, firm or corporation and that each said lot shall
sell for the price of $250 each.
   (C)   The Clerk of the city shall, upon selling a lot or lots of said
Maplewood Cemetery, prepare a deed of conveyance for said cemetery lot, which
said deed shall be under the supervision of the City Attorney and shall be
executed by the Mayor of said city to convey clear title to said cemetery lot
to the purchaser of said lot.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-27-2018)
§ 95.05 REQUIREMENT OF MARKER FOUNDATION.
   Any person or entity who owns a lot in the Maplewood Cemetery and does
desire to place a marker upon said lot identifying the grave site shall notify
the city of the type of marker to be used, the size and such other information
as the city may request. A foundation for all grave markers shall be required
to be built by the grave marker company in accordance with the requirements of
the marker. Any company desiring to set a grave marker shall give a minimum
notice of 48 hours prior to the date that the company intends to set the grave
marker. Prior to a company entering the cemetery to set the grave marker, the
representative of the company shall visit City Hall and identify himself or
herself so that a representative of the city may accompany the marker company
to the cemetery and specifically identify the grave site. A representative of
the city must be present to inspect the grave marker foundation hole prior to
any pouring for the marker foundation. No marker company may pour a marker
foundation, unless it is approved by a representative of the city.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-27-2018)
§ 95.06 PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   Upon the sale of a burial lot, cremation or regular lot, 10% of the purchase
price of said burial lot shall be deposited into the perpetual care fund for
the cemetery and expenditures from said fund shall be only in accordance to the
cemetery rules and statutes as set forth in the West Virginia State Code and
mandated to be followed by all owners of cemeteries.
(Ord. 29, passed 3-27-2018)
CHAPTER 96: YARD AND GARAGE SALES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Registration required
   
96.03   Fee
   
96.04   Certificate
   
96.05   Period and place of sale
   
96.06   Revocation
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms YARD SALE, GARAGE SALE, FLEAMARKET and ISOLATED TRANSACTION as
used in this chapter shall have one in the same meaning and reference and shall
include any activity whereby an individual or individuals, company or
corporation shall place for sale to the public in public places and on private
property and not from an established business on private property miscellaneous
new and used items at a monetary charge for which there is no state tax charged
and for which a sale or business license has not been obtained and sales tax is
not collected nor reported. Such sale is an isolated incident, not occurring on
a regular or scheduled arrangement and the seller is not in the business of
selling the type of tangible personal property offered for sale.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
§ 96.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to engage in the
activity of yard sales, garage sales, fleamarkets, or other isolated
transactions without first having registered in the office of the City Clerk
and having obtained a permit for such activity. Such registration must occur at
least two days prior to the operation of such activity. The registrant shall
give his/her complete identification; the identification of all individuals,
companies and corporations included and participating in or contributing to the
sale; the applicant’s signature; nature of sale; and the actual physical
location of said sale with the street address and property owners’ full names.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
§ 96.03 FEE.
   A fee of $5 per day shall be charged for such sale registration.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
§ 96.04 CERTIFICATE.
   Each applicant who appropriately applies and provides the necessary
information to the City Clerk shall be furnished a certificate indicating that
he or she has registered and showing the date such yard sale or the like is
authorized and the authorized site of said sale. Each applicant shall have at
the sale the registration certificate and the same shall be exhibited by such
registrant whenever he/she is required to do so by any police officer or by any
other authorized personnel. No applicant shall be issued a certificate for such
sale in his/her name for sales exceeding two days in any one calendar year. The
certificate issued may be for four one day sales or two two day sales or
whatever arrangement of four days of sales the applicant may request, but in no
circumstance shall certificate(s) be issued for more than a total of four days
of total days of sale per year. No person shall individually receive a
certificate for a sale which exceeds a cumulative of four days in each calendar
year. Further, the site of the sale may have a certificate(s) for only a
cumulative of four days in any one calendar year and no site shall be the
location of a sale which exceeds this time limitation. No certificate shall be
issued to any applicant who has an outstanding unpaid fine in regard to prior
violations of this chapter and such certificate shall be withheld until such
outstanding fines are paid in full.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
§ 96.05 PERIOD AND PLACE OF SALE.
   The authorized period of the sale as herein registered shall not exceed four
days in any one calendar year and will be confined between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of each day. Only certificates for four sale days will be
issued for the same site and location of sale in any one calendar year and the
issue of a change of ownership of the site or change of tenant shall not alter
this requirement. No sign for said yard sale or the like shall be placed on any
utility pole, street light poles, street signs or road signs. All signs posted
in other areas shall be removed within 24 hours of the completion of the yard
sale.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
§ 96.06 REVOCATION.
   Any such registration and certificate may be revoked by the Mayor or the
Chief of Police because of any violation by the registrant of this chapter or
of any other ordinance of the city or of any state or federal law, or whenever
the registrant shall cease to possess the qualifications and character required
in this chapter for a certificate to be issued.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $10 nor more
than $500 for each offense and each offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during on or which a violation occurs or continues. Such fine is applicable
to the person holding such permit and violating the provisions set forth herein
and, further, said fine is applicable to any individual who fails to secure
such a certificate prior to having said yard sale. The Kingwood Police, upon
observing a yard sale occurring which does not have a certificate, shall issue
a cease and stop order and force the yard sale to shut down. The violation
shall be reported and hearing held at which time a fine may thereafter be
issued.
   (B)   Should any yard sale, or the like, sign be placed on a utility pole,
street light pole or on road signs, the person obtaining the certificate shall
be fined $50 per sign posted in said locations.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2006)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
      
113.   NUDE DANCING
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Business licenses; generally
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 BUSINESS LICENSES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   By virtue of the adoption of this section, there is hereby imposed an
annual license tax upon various business classifications operating within the
municipality, and, following the effective date of this section, no person may
engage in a business in a capacity falling within the business classifications
itemized in the list below within the corporate limits of the city, without
first obtaining a license from the city, nor shall a person continue to engage
in such activity after his or her license has expired, been suspended or
revoked.
   (B)   The city shall collect an annual fee per year for the license issued
under this section as follows. The annual fee shall be assessed in accordance
with business classifications as defined under W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 12, as
amended, which said various classifications and the rate to be charged for each
annual fee is shown and identified in the attached itemized business
classifications listing, to which said reference is hereby made and said list
is hereby incorporated herein as though set forth in its complete entirety
within this section.
   (C)   The license period shall begin on July 1 of each year commencing July
1, 2021 and ending on June 30 of the following year, and if the initial license
is granted for less than a year, the fee shall be computed in proportion to the
number of halves remaining in the fiscal year, including the half in which
application is made.
   (D)   Each individual business classification or individual business
activity conducted with and being included within said business classification
shall be assessed said license fee and each individual conducting such activity
shall obtain a license for each separate business classification and activity
in accordance with the listing below.
   (E)   All such annual license fees shall be paid at the Municipal Building
in the city, payable at the City Clerk’s office on or before June 30 for the
ensuing fiscal year, whereupon a license shall be issued by the City Clerk.
Said license shall be on such form or forms as prescribed by said Clerk.
   (F)   In the event that any such license provided from the state, or any
such agency thereof, is revoked, then in such event, any license provided by
reason of this section will likewise be revoked by said City Clerk without the
necessity of further proceedings hereunder.
   (G)   A business license is required by this chapter for every person
engaging in purposeful revenue generating activity in the city such as but not
limited to lawyers, doctors, architects, surveyors, real estate broker and
agents, accountants, engineers, nurses, LPNs, and the like. By way of
explanation, if there is a law office with three lawyers working in it, each
individual lawyer would each pay the business license tax.
   (H)   Any person engaging in business within the city shall pay an annual
general municipal business license tax of $10.
   (I)   A business license will be required for the following locations and
activities:
      (1)   A separate business license is required for each fixed business
location from which property or services are offered for sale or lease to the
public at a class, or to a limited portion of the public; or at which customer
accounts may be opened, closed or serviced.
      (2)   A separate business license is required for each coin-operated
machine. A separate license is required for each location from which making
coin-operated machines available to the public is itself a business activity.
      (3)   A business that sells tangible personal property or services from
or out of one or more vehicles needs a separate business license for each fixed
location in the city from or out of which business is conducted. A copy of its
business license shall be carried in each vehicle and publicly displayed while
business is conducted from or out of the vehicle.
      (4)   Nothing in this section and no payment or issuance of any
certificate of license under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to legalize
any act which otherwise may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person
from any penalty prescribed for such violation.
      (5)   Every person to whom a certificate of license shall be issued under
the provisions of this chapter shall keep such certificate posted in a
conspicuous position in the place where the privileges of such license are
exercised, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter. Such
certificate of license shall be produced for inspection whenever required by
the Director of Finance or his deputies or by the City Police.
      (6)   Every license issued under the provisions of this section shall
confer a personal privilege only to transact the business, activity, trade or
employment which may be the subject of the license and shall not be exercised
except by the person holding the same and shall not be assignable. Changes in
the name of the person or change of location, or address, or changes in
ownership of the business or changes in real parties of interest shall be
considered a cessation of the business and a new certificate shall be required.
Changes of partners or members of firms or officers of a corporation shall not
require a new certificate to be issued.
Activity Rate W. Va. Code Section
                                                                            W. Va.
Activity                                                             Rate   Code
                                                                            Section
   In addition to businesses licensed under old W. Va. Code §§ 11-12 and 11-13A,
the following activities may be licensed in accordance with the West Virginia Code
section as shown. These rates may increase as the state rates increase, but cannot
exceed the state rates.
   Alcoholic liquors                                                     
      Fraternal or veterans organizations or non-profit social $375   60-7-6
      Private club                                             $250   60-7-6
      Liquor license (retail)                                  $1,500 60-3A-
                                                                            12
   Nonintoxicating beer                                                  
                                                                            11-16-
      Brewer                                                   $500   4; 11-
                                                                            16-17
                                                                            11-16-
      Class B (grocery stores) (chilled and unchilled)         $15    4; 11-
                                                                            16-17
                                                                            11-16-
      Class B (grocery stores) (unchilled only)                $15    4; 11-
                                                                            16-17
                                                                            11-16-
      Distributor                                              $200   4; 11-
                                                                            16-17
      Retail dealer - Class A (restaurants, bars and fraternal        11-16-
organizations)                                                       $100   4; 11-
                                                                            16-17
   Wine                                                                  
      Distributors (wholesale)                                 $2,500 60-8-3
      Private wine restaurant license                          $150   60-8-3
      Retailers (grocer)                                       $50    60-8-3
      Wine sales representative                                $50    60-8-3
      Wine testing                                             $50    60-8-3
(Ord. 49, passed 2-26-1991; Ord. passed 4-27-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Should any individual or business falling within a business classification
in accordance with the listing in §
110.01 and liable to pay an annual municipal license tax fail to secure such
license, such individual or legal representative of said business, shall be
liable for the assessment of $1 for each day said license fee is not paid in
accordance with the time schedule for payment set forth within this section.
Should any individual or legal representative of said business fail to obtain
any municipal license as provided herein, and as such violates any of the
foregoing provisions, such individual or legal representative shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $500. The Municipal Court of the city shall have jurisdiction to
hear and determine all cases brought hereunder.
(Ord. 49, passed 2-26-1991)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
   
111.01   Liquor license
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   As the state shall require a retail outlet to obtain a liquor license
from the state, the city shall also issue liquor licenses subsequent to the
retail outlet receiving a liquor license from the state. After the issuance of
a state liquor license, the applicant must then file an application with the
Clerk of the city.
   (B)   The annual retail license period shall be from July 1 to June 30 of
the following year. The annual retail license fee if an applicant holds a Class
A retail license under state law shall be the sum of $1,500 per outlet. The
annual retail license fee for the initial year of issuance shall be prorated
based on the number of days remaining between the date of issuance and the
following June 30.
   (C)   A retail license shall expire on June 30 of each year and may be
renewed only upon the submission of an application to the Clerk of the city.
   (D)   No person may sell liquor at any retail outlet if the retail license
applicable to such outlet has been suspended or revoked or has expired.
   (E)   All retail licenses issued or renewed under the provisions of this
section shall expire and be of no further force or effect as July 1, 2000.
Licenses issued thereafter will be issued in accordance with the applicable
law.
(Ord. 49, passed 2-26-1991) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Should any individual or business that is liable to pay an annual
municipal license tax fail to secure such license, such individual or legal
representative of said business, shall be liable for the assessment of $1 for
each day said license fee is not paid in accordance with the time schedule for
payment set forth within this section. Should any individual or legal
representative of said business fail to obtain any municipal license as
provided herein, and as such violates any of the foregoing provisions, such
individual or legal representative shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500. The
Municipal Court of the city shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine all
cases brought hereunder.
   (B)   Violation of §
111.01(C) shall be punishable by a fine of $500 and/or imprisonment for up to
30 days.
(Ord. 49, passed 2-26-1991)
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Registration required
   
112.03   Fee
   
112.04   Certificate
   
112.05   Exceptions
   
112.06   Period of solicitation
   
112.07   Revocation
   
112.08   Consent of occupant
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER. Includes any person or organization who takes orders
for future deliveries, or for intangible services, or solicits subscriptions or
contributions, in public places or from house to house and not from an
established place on private premises.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979)
§ 112.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to engage in business as
canvasser or solicitor, calling at residences without the previous consent of
the occupant for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions,
contributions or business of any kind, or seeking for information or donations
without first having registered in the office of the City Clerk. The registrant
shall give his or her complete identification, his or her signature, the name
of his or her employer, the nature of the products or services in which he or
she is interested, the names of the manufacturers of such products, or of the
organization which he or she is representing, and the proposed method of
operation in the city.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FEE.
   Each registrant shall pay to the City Clerk the annual business license fee
of $10 in accordance with
Chapter 110 for the hereinafter authorized period of solicitation or canvassing
which period shall begin on July 1 of each year commencing July 1, 2021, and
ending on June 30 of the following year, and if the initial license is granted
for less than a year, the fee shall be computed in proportion to the number of
halves remaining in the fiscal year, including the half in which application is
made.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979; Ord. passed 4-27-2021)
§ 112.04 CERTIFICATE.
   Each applicant who shows evidence of good character and who pays the fee
provided for herein shall be furnished a certificate indicating that he or she
has registered and showing the date such solicitation or canvassing is
authorized. Each and every person shall at all times while soliciting or
canvassing in the city carry upon his or her person the registration
certificate and the same shall be exhibited by such registrant whenever he or
she is required to do so by any police officer or by any persons solicited.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979)
§ 112.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to all officers or employees
of the city, county, state or federal government, or any subdivision thereof,
when on official business. The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to
all societies, groups or organizations acting for charitable, religious or
benevolent purposes; provided, however, not registration fee will be charged to
such groups, by to obtain such registration receipt such representative shall
make an affidavit and produce such other evidence as to the fact entitling him
or her to such exemption as the City Clerk, in her or her discretion, may
require, which shall be on a form prescribed by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979)
§ 112.06 PERIOD OF SOLICITATION.
   The authorized period of solicitation or canvassing will not exceed one day
in any one calendar year and will be confined between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m. of that day; provided, however, exceptions to the authorized
period of solicitation or canvassing may be granted by the City Council for
cogent reasons set forth by such applicant and such approval being noted in the
minutes of a regular meeting of said Council.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 REVOCATION.
   Any such registration may be revoked by the Mayor or the Chief of Police
because of any violation by the registrant of this chapter or of any other
chapter of the city, or of any state of federal law, orwhenever the registrant
shall cease to possess the qualifications and character required in this
chapter of the original registration.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979)
§ 112.08 CONSENT OF OCCUPANT.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the city by
solicitors or canvassers, not having been requested or invited so to do by the
owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said private residences, for the
purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, contributions or business
of any kind is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is guilty of a violation of any provision of this chapter,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for
each offense shall be deemed committed on each day during on or which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-27-1979)
CHAPTER 113: NUDE DANCING
Section
   
113.01   Findings
   
113.02   Application of other provisions
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Employee conduct
   
113.05   Hours of operation
   
113.06   Location of nude dancing premises or adult entertainment premises
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 FINDINGS.
   Based on public input and other evidence and information before, the City
Council makes the following findings of fact.
   (A)   Certain conduct occurring on premises offering nude dancing is
detrimental to the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of
the city and, therefor, such conduct must be regulated as provided herein.
   (B)   Regulation of the nude dancing industry is necessary because in the
absence of such regulation the said nude dancing industry will: encourage
prostitution; increase sexual assaults; increase sexually transmitted diseases;
and attract other criminal activities.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 113.02 APPLICATION OF OTHER PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to supersede the provisions
of any other ordinance of the city, unless specifically set forth as such, or
the law of the state. The provisions of this chapter are in addition to any
other law or regulation.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including managers, entertainers and
independent contractors, who work in or at or render any services directly
related to, the operation of an adult entertainment premises.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who on any occasion provides adult entertainment
within an adult entertainment premises as defined in this section, whether or
not a fee is charged or accepted for entertainment, or whether or not the
entertainer is paid.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Any exhibition or dance of any type, pantomime, modeling or
any other performance.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of,
the affairs and/or conduct of any portion of any activity involving adult
entertainment occurring at any adult entertainment premises.
   NUDE DANCING or DANCE NUDE. Any exhibition, performance or dance of any type
conducted in a premises where such exhibition, performance or dance involves a
person who:
      (1)   Is unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing as to expose to
view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any portion of
the pubic region, anus, buttocks, vulva or genitals; or
      (2)   Touches, caresses or fondles the breast, buttocks, anus, genitals
or pubic region of a patron, or permits the touching, caressing or fondling of
his or her own breast, buttocks, anus, genitals or pubic region by a patron,
with the intent to sexually arouse or excite the patron.
   NUDE DANCING PREMISES or ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PREMISES. Any premises to which
the public, patrons or members are invited or admitted and wherein an
entertainer provides nude dancing or provides adult entertainment to a member
of the public, a patron or a member.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating, conducting or maintaining an adult
entertainment business or premises.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, trust, incorporated or
unincorporated association, marital community, joint venture or other entity or
group of persons however organized.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area generally visible to public view and includes
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots and
automobiles whether moving or not.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997)
§ 113.04 EMPLOYEE CONDUCT.
   The following standards of conduct upon the premises must be adhered to by
employees of any adult entertainment premises.
   (A)   No employee or entertainer shall be unclothed or in such less than
opaque and complete attire, costume or clothing so as to expose to view any
portion of the breast below the top of the areola or any portion of the pubic
region, anus, buttocks, vulva or genitals, except upon a stage where
entertainer shall wear at least pasties, G-string or similar item of clothing
to at least cover the areola, genitals and anal cleft.
   (B)   The stage shall be at least 24 inches above the immediate floor level
and removed at least ten feet from the nearest patron or person.
   (C)   No employee or entertainer mingling with any person or the patrons
shall be unclothed or in less than opaque and complete attire, costume or
clothing as described herein.
   (D)   No employee or entertainer shall knowingly permit any person upon the
premises to touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals of
any other person.
   (E)   No employee or entertainer shall touch, caress or fondle the breasts,
buttocks, anus or genitals of any other person.
   (F)   No employee or entertainer shall wear or use any device or covering
exposed to view which simulates the breast below the top of the areola, vulva
or genitals, anus, buttocks or any portion of the pubic region.
   (G)   No employee or entertainer shall use artificial devices or inanimate
objects to depict any of the prohibited activities described in this chapter.
   (H)   No employee or entertainer of any adult entertainment premises shall
be visible from any public place during the hours of his or her employment, or
apparent hours of his or her employment, on the premises.
   (I)   No entertainer shall solicit, demand or receive any payment or
gratuity from any patron for any act prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause any nude dancing premises or adult
entertainment premises to remain open to the public, or to conduct or operate
business, whether for adult entertainment or otherwise, between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 LOCATION OF NUDE DANCING PREMISES OR ADULT ENTERTAINMENT PREMISES.
   (A)   No nude dancing premises or adult entertainment premises may be
located closer than 1,000 feet to the following places or specific areas:
      (1)   Any residential home, whether located in residential or business
district;
      (2)   Any private or public school;
      (3)   Any church or other type building where people gather to worship;
      (4)   Any public gathering area known as a community center, meeting area
or similar use, i.e. Community Building and Civic Center; and
      (5)   Any building or house which is used for the purpose of a form of
day care facility.
   (B)   This provision shall supersede any provision of the zoning regulations
of this city which is in conflict with the provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter; and whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $500. A person convicted of a second or subsequent offense under this
chapter, shall be fined not less than $300 and not more than $500 for each
violation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor or manager to operate
or own an adult entertainment establishment or nude dancing premises at such
time as any violation of this chapter or any portion of this chapter occurs.
Such violation is punishable by the same provisions set forth in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-11-1997)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   UNIFORM CRIMINAL CODE
CHAPTER 130: UNIFORM CRIMINAL CODE
Section
   
130.01   Adoption
§ 130.01 ADOPTION.
   The Uniform Criminal Code is adopted as is. A copy of the Uniform Criminal
Code can be found at Kingwood City Hall.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
State Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of State Building Code
Building Permits; Fees
   
150.15   Building permit fees
   
150.16   Issuance of building permits
   
150.17   Fines to be issued in regard to building permits
   
150.18   When building permits are required
Vacant Buildings
   
150.30   Definitions
   
150.31   Compliance by all vacant structures
   
150.32   Applicability
   
150.33   Inspection
   
150.34   Corrective action
   
150.35   Registration generally
   
150.36   Right of appeal
   
150.37   Amending information
   
150.38   Re-inspection
   
150.39   Non-payment of fees/liens
   
150.40   Relation to other ordinances and laws
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.55   Definitions
   
150.56   Administration
   
150.57   Abatement of unsafe buildings
   
150.58   Uninhabitable buildings
   
150.59   Unsafe buildings
   
150.60   Standards for repair, vacation or demolition
   
150.61   Building Inspector and agent
   
150.62   Right of entry
   
150.63   Report of any proceedings and recommendations to City Council
   
150.64   Assessment and lien on property affected
   
150.65   Service of notices, complaints and orders
   
150.66   Hearings and appeals
   
150.67   Applicability of state law
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STATE BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   Adoption of the State Building Code is repealed. All references to the
“State Building Code” in any corresponding ordinances are removed and replaced
with “ordinance/ordinances.” All city ordinances requiring building permits and
zoning approval shall remain in force and effect.
(Ord. 52, passed 6-28-2016; Ord. passed 5-13-2025)
BUILDING PERMITS; FEES
§ 150.15 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   For buildings, additions to buildings, remodeling, repairs or renovations
performed, demolition and excavation in regard to property, fences, signs,
pools, accessory buildings and other structures within the municipality, as
more accurately defined hereafter within this subchapter, the following shall
be fees charged by the city for a building permit:
   (A)   A permit fee shall be $10 for construction costs ranging from $1 to
$1,000;
   (B)   A permit fee shall be $20 for construction costs ranging from $1,001
to $2,500; and
   (C)   A permit fee shall be 0.5% of the cost of said construction work for
construction costs in excess of $2,500.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-27-2006; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 150.16 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   An applicant for a building permit shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished by the city.
   (B)   Such application shall provide for the following:
      (1)   An identification and description of the work to be covered by the
permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal
description and/or street address that will readily identify and definitely
locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by construction documents/drawings that specifically
set forth the type of work to be done and materials required;
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work including materials and
labor;
      (6)   Be signed by the applicant or applicant’s authorized agent;
      (7)   Provide such other data and information as may be requested by the
City Supervisor or City Council;
      (8)   A completed affidavit executed and notarized for all applicants who
state that the applicant will be performing the work and that it is not being
completed by any third party. Should other individuals assist with the repairs,
a contractor’s license is required, even if the owner assists with the work;
and
      (9)   A contractor’s name and license number shall be stated on the
application for all work performed by any individual other than the owner. A
contractor’s license shall be required on all commercial property even when the
owner assists with the work with exception of non-structural, non- electrical
projects costing less than $2,500 material and labor) and completed by the
owner. If the commercial property is leased to any third party other than the
owner, a contractor’s license is required, even when the owner does all of the
work with exception of non-structural, non-electrical projects costing less
than $2,500 (material and labor) and completed by the owner.
   (C)   The building permit fee shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time a
building permit is issued and no building permit shall be granted until said
fee is paid. Upon receiving a request for a building permit, the City Clerk
shall provide the request to the City Supervisor for his or her review. The
City Supervisor shall advise the Council in regard to his or her review and
recommendation of the permit request. The City Supervisor may recommend the
denial of the permit if, in his or her opinion, the valuation is underestimated
on the application. In such a situation, the applicant would be requested to
show detailed estimates to meet the approval of City Council. All building
permits must be approved by the Council of the city prior to said permit being
Issued, unless an emergency situation would occur. In the situation of an
emergency, the City Supervisor shall inspect the area for which the building
permit is requested and, if the Supervisor determines that an emergency does
exist, the Clerk may issue the building permit upon the approval of the
Supervisor. Only in emergency situations may the City Supervisor approve such a
permit. Should the City Supervisor be not be available for inspection, any
member of the City Council shall be permitted to approve such an emergency
permit.
   (D)   All building permits issued shall conform to the zoning regulations,
as codified in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, and all other applicable ordinances of
the city.
   (E)   Every building permit issued shall expire and become invalid six
months after the date of issuance. If the building permit specific work is not
completed after six months, an extension can be granted for another six months
totaling one year per permit. If after the extension a permitted project still
requires additional time to complete, a justification and request for extension
must be made in person by the original applicant or the applicant’s authorized
agent before City Council. Any permit that expires without an authorized
renewal shall be considered invalid and all work must cease until a new
application for a building permit is submitted, approved, and issued in
accordance with this chapter. If an emergency occurs that requires immediate
work be done outside of normal city operating hours, the applicant or
applicant’s authorized agent must retroactively request a permit on an
emergency basis in accordance with this chapter on the next business day the
city operated after the emergency. The city may suspend or revoke a building
permit issued herein in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or
incomplete information in violation of any ordinance of the city. The City
Supervisor and/or City Council may issue a stop work order in writing and have
the same delivered by the City Police Department to the applicant or person
doing the work. Upon issuance of the stop work order, the cited work shall
immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and
the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-27-2006; Ord. passed 4-13-2021; Ord. passed - -2022)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 FINES TO BE ISSUED IN REGARD TO BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Should a permit be requested on an emergency situation and the City
Supervisor determines that an emergency does not exist, the applicant shall pay
to the city a penalty.
   (B)   Should an individual, business entity, or licensed contractor fail to
obtain a building permit prior to beginning any work requiring such a permit,
the individual, business entity, or licensed contractor shall be fined and the
city police shall have the right to issue a stop and cease work order until
such time as the fine is paid in full and an appropriate building permit is
obtained in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Should any person continue to perform work when a building permit has
been suspended or revoked through the issuance of a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, he or she shall be subject to be fined for each day that the work
continued after the issuance of the stop work order.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-27-2006; Ord. passed 4-13-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18 WHEN BUILDING PERMITS ARE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A building permit shall be required to be obtained by the owner or
authorized agent for the construction of buildings/homes, additions/alterations
to buildings/homes, remodeling, repairs or renovations performed, moving of a
building/home, demolition and excavation in regard to property, fences, signs,
pools, accessory buildings and other structures within the municipality.
   (B)   Certain actions requiring a building permit are included specifically
herein, but not exclusively to other actions which may be determined to require
such a permit, which actions are the following construction/excavation
activities:
      (1)   Construction and/or repair of driveways;
      (2)   Any structural modification of a building/home;
      (3)   Any electrical work within/without a building/home;
      (4)   Any furnace replacement/installation, all heating plants including,
but not limited to, pellet stoves and wood burners;
      (5)   Any natural gas work performed within the building/home;
      (6)   Floor replacement within a building/home;
      (7)   Extensive remodeling/replacement of kitchen and bathroom;
      (8)   Extensive remodeling, including cutting away or removal of walls,
partitions, structural beam or load-bearing support, or the removal or change
of any required means of egress or rearrangement of parts of a structure
affecting the egress within a building/home;
      (9)   All exterior work including, but not limited to, roof repair/
replacement, gutters and shutters, fencing, pools (above and in-ground) and
accessory buildings;
      (10)   All plumbing work within/without a building/home;
      (11)   Any mechanical work within/without a building/home; and
      (12)   Addition to, alteration of, replacement or relocation of any
standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas soil, waste vent or
similar piping, electrical wiring or mechanical or other work affecting public
health or general safety.
      (13)   Signs including those painted on building. See §
152.049.
   (C)   Building permits shall not be required for the following, which list
is not exclusive:
      (1)   Construction/repair of sidewalks, exterior and interior painting,
playground equipment and window awnings;
      (2)   Minor electrical repair work, including replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently
installed receptacles;
      (3)   Electrical equipment used for radio and television transmissions,
but a permit is required for equipment and wiring for power supply and the
installation of towers and antennas;
      (4)   Portable gas heating appliance;
      (5)   Replacement of a minor gas part that does not alter approval of
equipment or make such equipment unsafe;
      (6)   Portable heating, ventilation and cooling units/equipment;
      (7)   The stopping of leaks in drains, water, soil, waste or vent pipe;
however, should such trap, drainpipe and the like become defective requiring to
remove and replace, such work shall require a building permit;
      (8)   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes,
valves or fixtures and the removal and reinstallation of water closets,
provided such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or
rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures; and
      (9)   Ordinary repairs to structures, replacement of lamps or connection
of approved portable electrical equipment to approved permanently installed
receptacles.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-27-2006; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDED. A building or structure subject to the provision of this subchapter
shall be deemed to be BOARDED if in place of one or more exterior doors, other
than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets of
plywood or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS. The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, window, doors, roof and other parts of the exterior of the building
and maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof, the electrical and
plumbing systems, the water supply system, the sewer system and the sidewalk,
driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced by the City
Police Department and/or the Enforcement Committee (created in §§ 150.55
through 150.67), particularly in connection with the ordinances as adopted by
the city as well as all applicable local, state and federal laws.
   OCCUPIED. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be occupied if one or
more persons actually conducts a lawful business or resides in all or any part
of the building as the licensed business occupant, or as the legal or equitable
owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis, or any
combination of the same. For purposes of this subchapter, evidence offered to
prove that a building is so OCCUPIED may include, but shall not be limited to:
the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U. S. Postal
Service; a valid city business license, or the most recent federal or state
income tax statements indicating that the subject property is the official
business or residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy; or
proof of bona fide pre-rental inspection.
   OPEN. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be deemed to be OPEN if any one or more exterior doors other than a storm
door is broken, open and/or closed, but, without a properly functioning lock to
secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being locked
and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
   OWNER. An owner of the freehold of the premises or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor/administrator, trustee, lessee, agent or any other person, firm or
corporation that is directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to
the provisions of this subchapter, and as set forth in this subchapter.
   VACANT.
      (1)   A building or structure shall be deemed to be VACANT if no person
or persons actually, currently conducts a lawfully licensed business, or
lawfully resides, dwells or lives in any part of the building as the legal or
equitable owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or owner-occupant(s), or tenant(s) on
a permanent, non-transient basis.
      (2)   A building or structure shall be deemed VACANT and subject to the
registration and possible penalty provisions provided herein if the exterior
maintenance and major systems of the building and the surrounding real property
thereof, as defined in this section, are in violation of the Building Codes,
city ordinances or health and sanitation or safety of the citizens of the city,
and if there is not proof of continual utility service evidencing actual use of
electric, gas, water/sewer service and the like. CONTINUED is meant to be
without more than one 30-day interruption in any given 365-day period. In order
for such continual utility service to be considered as being actually in use as
described in this section, it must be more than merely registered to the owner
for purposes of billing and must be utilized, at a minimum, in order to keep
the property and the major systems of the building in compliance with Building
and Safety Codes. The person or entity asserting that there has been continued
utility service has the burden to produce actual bills evidencing utility
service for the relevant period.   
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.31 COMPLIANCE BY ALL VACANT STRUCTURES.
   All vacant structures shall also comply with the following criteria.
   (A)   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-cultivated
gardens maintained at not more than 18 inches of growth. All noxious weeds are
prohibited.
   (B)   The structure is to be broom-swept and cleared of all contents, not
including building materials or components to be used in the future renovation
at that structure.
   (C)   Electrical service is to be provided to the building via temporary
pole service on the exterior of the structure or create a permanent service for
the structure and install two GFCI protected receptacles.
   (D)   NEC and OSHA compliant string lighting is to be provided to the entire
structure so that it may be illuminated as needed to view the structure.
   (E)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed.
   (F)   Unstable or unsound accessory buildings are to be razed or renovated.
Using clear plexiglass sheet goods, all loose, deteriorated and broken windows
and doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling and to
prevent the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such material sheet goods are to be
cut and neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening.
   (G)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter or overhang extensions (masonry
or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent failing.
   (H)   Regular routine monitoring of the structure is to occur by the owner
to ensure that the building is being kept in compliance with the above items.
   (I)   Utilities need to be connected to the structure.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.32 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements of this subchapter shall be applicable to each owner
of any building that is found to be vacant pursuant to the language contained
herein. Each such owner shall cause to be filed a notarized registration
statement, which shall include the street address and parcel number of each
such vacant building, the names and addresses of all owners, as hereinafter
described, and any other information deemed necessary by the City Police
Department and/or the Enforcement Committee. The registration fee(s) as
required by this section shall be billed by the city and shall be paid by the
last day of the month when the property has been registered.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the following shall also be
applicable:
      (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   If an estate, the name and business address of the executor/
administrator;
      (3)   If a trust, the name and address of all trustees, grantors and
beneficiaries;
      (4)   If a partnership, the names and residence addresses of all partners
with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (5)   If any other form of unincorporated association, the names and
residence addresses of all principals with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (6)   If a non-profit organization, the names and residence addresses of
all board members and the names and residence addresses of the officers; and
      (7)   If an individual person, the name and residence address of that
individual person.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.33 INSPECTION.
   (A)   At the time of registration, the Enforcement Committee and/or Police
Chief shall determine whether it is necessary for any or all of them to inspect
the structure so as to identify any public safety issues needing addressed.
Inspections shall also be available to verify the status of any property
concerning occupancy, vacancy and the like. If an internal inspection is deemed
necessary, the owner will be notified of the same and arrangements made for the
same.
   (B)   If the owner fails or refuses to consent to and arrange for an
inspection, the city will seek an administrative search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, which shall include the Municipal Court, to authorize
inspection of the premises for the purpose of determining the structural
integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to ensure its structural
integrity and that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and police
officers in time of emergency, and that the building and its contents do not
present a hazard to the public during the time that the building remains
vacant.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.34 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   The property owners shall be notified in writing of any corrective action
deemed necessary for life, safety, city ordinances and Building Code matters by
city officials, the applicable code or ordinance provisions or regulations and
will be afforded a reasonable time to perform the corrective action. Corrective
action concerning the occupancy of vacant structures is discussed later herein.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.35 REGISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Registration. At the time of adoption of this subchapter, all owners
of realty within the city that contain a vacant structure, as defined in §
150.30, shall register the same with the office of the City Clerk. For those
structures that qualify as a vacant structure, the owner thereof shall be
required to register the structure with the City Clerk within 30 days after the
structure is found to meet the definition of a vacant structure. The
registration form shall require information from the registrant as previously
set forth in §
150.32(B). The Enforcement Committee and/or the Police Chief of the city shall
have the authority to require that the property owner provide a professional
opinion (architect, engineer and the like) to determine the structural
integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to ensure its structural
integrity and that it will be safe for entry by firefighters and police
officers in time of emergency, and that the building and its contents do not
present a hazard to the public during the time the building remains vacant. The
Enforcement Committee and/or Police Chief shall the authority to issue orders
to the owner for the corrective action deemed necessary. The Enforcement
Committee and/or Police Chief shall rely upon the State Building Code and Fire
Code, as well as other applicable laws, for guidance during any such structural
review.
   (B)   Registration statement and fees, local agent.
      (1)   If none of the persons listed above is shown at an address within
the state, the registration statement also shall provide the name and address
of a person who resides within the state and who is authorized to accept
service of process on behalf of the owners and who shall be designated as a
responsible, local party or agent, both for purposes of notification in the
event of an emergency affecting the public health, safety or welfare and for
purposes of service an any and all notices or registration statements as herein
authorized and in connection herewith. Registration shall be required for all
vacant buildings, whether vacant and secure, vacant and open or vacant and
boarded, and shall be required whenever any building has remained vacant for 60
consecutive days or more. In no instance shall the registration of a vacant
building and the payment of registration fees be construed to exonerate the
owner, agent or responsible party for compliance with any other Building or
Housing Code or city ordinance requirements. One registration statement may be
filed to include all vacant buildings of the owner so registering, but each
structure constitutes a separate fee. The owner of the vacant property as of
the last day of the month when the property has been registered of each
calendar year shall be responsible for the payment of the non-refundable
registration fee.
      (2)   Said fee shall be billed by the city; and based on the duration of
the vacancy as determined by the following scale:
         (a)   No fee for properties that are vacant for less than one year;
         (b)   Four hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
one year, but less than two years;
         (c)   Eight hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at
least two years, but less than three years;
         (d)   One thousand two hundred dollars for properties that are vacant
for at least three years but less than four years;
         (e)   One thousand six hundred dollars for properties that are vacant
for at least four years but less than five years; and
         (f)   Three thousand two hundred dollars for properties that are
vacant for at least five years, plus an additional $400 for each year in excess
of five years.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeal rights. The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition
of the registration fees to the Mayor; upon filing an application in writing to
the office of the City Clerk no later than 15 calendar days after the date of
the billing statement. On appeal, the owner shall bear the burden of providing
satisfactory objective proof of occupancy as defined in §
150.30.
   (B)   One-time waiver of registration fee. A one-time waiver of registration
fee, or an extension of a waiver for up to 90 days from the date of the current
billing statement may be granted by the Mayor or his or her designee upon
application of the owner and upon review and advice of the Enforcement
Committee and City Attorney; if the owner demonstrates with satisfactory proof
to the Mayor or his or her designee that he or she is in the process of
demolition, rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
and objectively demonstrates to the Mayor or his or her designee a reasonable
anticipated length of time for the demolition, rehabilitation or other
substantial repair of the vacant building; provides satisfactory proof to the
Mayor or his or her designee that he or she was actively attempting to sell or
lease the property during the vacancy period; or provides satisfactory proof to
the Mayor or his or her designee, to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis, that
the vacancy is temporary and may be due to illness of the owner, active
military service or some other reasonable explanation believed to be short term
in and nature and document as necessary.
   (C)   Action on waiver application. Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as
possible, after the waiver application is received, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall grant or deny the waiver, or request for extension, in writing,
and dispatch the written decision by mail to the owner. If the owner properly
submitted an application for a one-time waiver or request for extension to the
Mayor or his or her designee, and the Mayor or his or her designee rendered a
decision which the owner seeks to appeal to the City Council, the owner must
file an application in writing no later than 30 calendar days from the date of
the Mayor or his or her designee’s decision. City Council shall either grant or
deny the appeal. Thereafter the decision of City Council is final unless within
30 days of such decision the owner appeals for injunctive relieve to the
Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.37 AMENDING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Duty to amend registration statement. If the status of the
registration information changes during the course of any calendar year, it is
the responsibility of the owner, responsible party or agent for the same to
contact the City Clerk within 30 days of the occurrence of such change and
advise in writing of such changes.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any building owned by the
United States, the state, the city or any of their respective agencies or
political subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38 RE-INSPECTION.
   All vacant structures are subject to reinspection on an annual basis or as
deemed necessary.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.39 NON-PAYMENT OF FEES/LIENS.
   (A)   Delinquent registration fees as a lien. After the owner is given
notice of the amount of the registration fee due, except for those owners that
have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to this subchapter, and the owner
fails to pay the amount due, said amount shall constitute a debt due and owing
to the city and the city may commence a civil action to collect such unpaid
debt.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIEN or LIENS. Arise whenever the fees and charges as described in this
section are levied or imposed. ACTUAL LIENS, however, are created when a
judgement from a civil action is obtained.
   (C)   If an owner fails to pay the registration fee as assessed and the city
begins the collection action to enforce its lien, then the Mayor or his or her
designee shall post the written notice on the property and send the written
notice to the owner(s) by certified and regular mail.
   (D)   The city may take action to sell the subject property by means of
forfeiture through a Circuit Court proceeding. Should the city take the steps
necessary to sell the subject property, the city shall do so, subject to all
liens and real property taxes that are due. Purchasers of the subject property
shall be similarly responsible for registration pursuant to this subchapter in
the same manner as the prior owner and must begin the registration process anew
if said property remains vacant.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
§ 150.40 RELATION TO OTHER ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   It is understood that the intent and purpose of this subchapter is separate
and apart from other ordinances of the city. The provisions of this subchapter
are applicable to the owners of such vacant buildings as set forth herein and
in addition to and not in lieu of any and all other applicable provisions in
this subchapter and other city ordinances.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any building or structure, whether or not used or occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used.
   OWNER. The holder on fee simple of the title to the building in question.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, firms, associations and corporations
including mortgagees and other lien holders who have an interest of record in
such building, and any who are in possession thereof.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.56 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all dwellings,
buildings, structures, or parts thereof, which are now in existence or may
hereafter be constructed in the city.
   (B)   All dwellings, structures, buildings or parts thereof to which this
subchapter is applicable shall be subject to the provisions of the Building
Code and Fire Prevention Code and the amendments thereto which have been
appropriately adopted as the Building Code and Fire Prevention Code of this
city and any and all other ordinances adopted by this city.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.57 ABATEMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The unsafe condition of buildings as defined in §
150.59 shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in
accordance with the provisions for in this subchapter. The unsafe condition of
buildings as defined in §
150.59 results in conditions detrimental to public health, safety and general
welfare and as such is a public nuisance and shall be abated voluntarily or be
demolition or removal as herein provided.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.58 UNINHABITABLE BUILDINGS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, any building which does not possess
adequate light, air, electric, and/or gas energy sources, and sanitary
facilities, or which is so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe or unsanitary as to
utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living and is likely
to work injury to the health, safety or general welfare of those living therein
and/or unfit for human habitation is hereby declared a public nuisance and
ordered abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance
herewith.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.59 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, any building which has one or more of
the defects as enumerated hereafter shall be deemed to be an unsafe building:
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more of
damage or deterioration of the supporting members, of 50% of damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purposes used;
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as
to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the city;
      (5)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, safety or general
welfare of those living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or
panic or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or other
means of communication;
      (8)   Those which have appurtenances or ornamentation on the exterior
thereof which are so attached or fastened that they may fall and injure members
of the public or property; and
      (9)   Those which because of the following is likely to partially or
completely collapse:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability or any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
   (B)   The standards set forth in the Building Code and Fire Prevention Code
and amendments thereto as have been adopted by this city, and any other
ordinance of this city shall be determinative of the existence of the above
defects, and shall, in addition thereto, provide other standards which shall be
used in determining whether a building shall be deemed an unsafe building.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.60 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the City Council
in ordering repair, vacation or demolition.
   (A)   If the unsafe building can reasonably be repaired so that it will no
longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be ordered
repaired.
   (B)   If the unsafe building is in such condition as to make it imminently
dangerous to the public or its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where an unsafe building is 60% damaged or decayed, or
deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished, and,
in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.61 BUILDING INSPECTOR AND AGENT.
   The Building Inspector or his or her authorized agent shall:
   (A)   Inspect any building about which a responsible complaint is filed with
the City Clerk by any person to the effect that a dwelling is or may be
existing in violation of this subchapter which said complaint shall be in
writing to said City Clerk;
   (B)   Inspect any building reported by any member of the Fire Department,
Police Department or any other department of the city as probably existing in
violation of terms of this subchapter;
   (C)   Appear at any hearing or meeting and to testify as to the condition or
defect which makes such building an unsafe building; and
   (D)   Shall exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry
out and effectuate the purpose of this subchapter and as is provided within the
Building Code and Fire Code and the amendments thereto as have been adopted by
this city.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.62 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, the Building Inspector or his or her designee may,
upon proper authorization, enter such building at all reasonable times to
inspect the same or perform any duties required under this subchapter; provided
that:
      (1)   If such building be occupied, he or she shall first present proper
credentials and request entry; and
      (2)   If such building be unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the building and request entry.
   (B)   If any requests for entry is refused, then the Building Inspector or
his or her designee shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to
secure entry.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.63 REPORT OF ANY PROCEEDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The enforcement agency of this subchapter shall consist of the Mayor,
the Building Inspector and one member at large to be selected by and to serve
at the will and pleasure of the Mayor. The ranking health officer and Fire
Chief shall serve as ex officio members of such enforcement agency.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall report his or her findings and
recommendations to the enforcement agency and, if the said agency ascertains
from the report and findings that the conditions of such building is such that
it is an unsafe building and, therefor, a public nuisance, said enforcement
agency shall forthwith direct that the owner, those in possession, and all
parties in interest be notified that if such public nuisance is not abated
within 30 days from the receipt of such notification, the enforcement agency
shall order that such dwelling or building be declared a public nuisance and
abated by demolition.
   (C)   Should any person, firm or corporation, disagree with or otherwise be
aggrieved by an action taken or decisions made by said enforcement agency in
accordance herewith, said enforcement agency shall be the presiding agency upon
any verified petition filed herein.
   (D)   The enforcement agency, upon hearing all of the presentations of
evidence upon a verified petition, shall set forth findings and conclusions in
regard to said petition and shall serve an order of said findings and
conclusions upon the aggrieved party immediately upon said enforcement agency
arriving at a decision.
   (E)   Said enforcement agency shall have the final decision in regard to
declaring any dwelling or building a public nuisance and ordering the abatement
thereof by demolition. It shall be the duty and obligation of said enforcement
agency to adhere to the rules of procedure as set forth herein.
   (F)   Upon the expiration of 30 days from the date of the notice to abate
the public nuisance has been given to the owner, those in possession, and all
parties in interest, or upon the entry of an order by said enforcement agency
upon a ruling on a verified petition filed herein, said enforcement agency
shall consider the question of whether such dwelling or building should be
declared a public nuisance and abated by demolition. Said determination by said
agency shall occur upon the majority vote of said enforcement agency and an
order therefrom shall set forth the future proceedings in regard to the
abatement of said public nuisance.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.64 ASSESSMENT AND LIEN ON PROPERTY AFFECTED.
   In the event that any expense or costs are incurred pursuant to §
150.63 for demolition of or abatement of unsafe buildings, then any such
expense or costs over and above the proceeds of sale and salvage of all or any
part of the building shall be assessed against the real estate. Such assessment
shall bear interest at 10% per annum and shall be immediately due and payable.
If such assessment is not paid within 30 days after the same is made, the City
Recorder may certify the amount of any such assessment with a description of
the property chargeable therewith in the name of the owner thereof to the Clerk
of the County Commission, to be recorded in said office as an assessment, and
such assessment shall constitute a lien against such property.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.65 SERVICE OF NOTICES, COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   All notices, complaints or orders issued pursuant to the provisions of this
order shall be served in accordance with the law of this state concerning the
service of process in civil actions and shall, in addition thereto, be posted
in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.66 HEARINGS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   If any person, firm or corporation disagrees with or otherwise
believes he, she or it is aggrieved by any action taken or decisions made by
the enforcement agency of the municipality in accordance herewith, he, she or
it shall have the right to a hearing upon the aggrieved party filing, within
ten days of any such action or decision of the enforcement agency, a verified
petition assigning specific grounds therein, which said petition shall be filed
with the City Clerk who shall present it to the enforcement agency, at a
special meeting to be called within 20 days from the filing of said petition.
At said special meeting, the enforcement agency shall then set a time and place
for a hearing upon said petition and shall so notify the aggrieved party.
   (B)   Should the aggrieved party be dissatisfied with findings and
conclusions of the enforcement agency as set forth in an order, said aggrieved
party shall have the right to an appeal to the Circuit Court, in the same
manner and method as used in an appeal to the Circuit Court from Municipal
Police Court, except no bond shall be required for such appeal. Said appeal
must be perfected on or before 20 days after the findings and conclusions of
the enforcement agency.
   (C)   There is further provided that should the aggrieved party be
dissatisfied with the findings and conclusions of the enforcement agency as set
forth in an order, the aggrieved party shall have the right to apply to the
Circuit Court of the county, for a temporary injunction restraining the
enforcement agency pending final disposition of this cause.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.67 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 12 et seq. sets forth provisions upon which this
subchapter is based and any issues not addressed by this subchapter shall be
handled in accordance with said West Virginia Code.
(Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Should a building permit be requested on an emergency situation
and the City Supervisor determines that an emergency does not exist, the
applicant shall pay to the city a penalty (fine) of $100, which penalty shall
be due and payable immediately to the City Clerk and in no circumstance may a
building permit be issued to the applicant on any later request until such
penalty (fine) has been paid in full.
      (2)   Should an individual or business entity fail to obtain a building
permit prior to beginning any work requiring such a permit, the individual or
business entity shall be fined $100 and the city police shall have the right to
issue a stop and cease work order until such time as the fine is paid in full
and an appropriate building permit is obtained in accordance with the
provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.18.
      (3)   Should any person continue to perform work when a building permit
has been suspended or revoked through the issuance of a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be subject to be fined $100 for each day that the work
continued after the issuance of the stop work order.
   (C)   The failure or refusal for any reason of any owner, or agent of an
owner acting on behalf of the owner, to register a vacant building upon
adoption of §§
150.30 through
150.40 or to pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.40, within 30 days after they become due, shall constitute a violation
punishable upon conviction in the Municipal Court by a fine in the amount of
not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each such failure or refusal to pay a
required vacant building fee, as applicable. In such cases, whenever the
minimum fine of $100 is imposed, it shall not be subject to suspension or
reduction for any reason.
   (D)   (1)   Violations of §§
150.55 through
150.67 is a misdemeanor and any person so violating the terms hereof shall be
fined not exceeding $100 for each offense, and may, in addition, be fined the
sum of $100 for each and every day such failure to comply continues beyond the
date fixed for compliance.
      (2)   Any person who shall obstruct, impede or interfere with the
Building Inspector or any representative or officer thereof, or with any person
who owns or holds any estate or interest in such building, or with any person
to whom such building has been lawfully sold, pursuant to the provisions of §§
150.55 through
150.67, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not exceeding $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 47, passed 6-27-2006; Ord. 42, passed 1-28-1992; Ord. passed 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definition of words and phrases
   
151.02   Enforcement
   
151.03   Location outside of camps and parks
   
151.04   Permanent occupancy
   
151.05   License
   
151.06   Zoning
   
151.07   Plan of trailer camp or trailer park
   
151.08   Sanitary facilities
   
151.09   Waste and garbage disposal
   
151.10   Insect and rodent control
   
151.11   Fire protection, fuel supply and storage
   
151.12   Management and supervision
   
151.13   Miscellaneous requirements
   
151.14   Revocation and suspension
   
151.15   Hearing on granting, denial, renewal or revocation of license
   
151.16   Court review
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For design standards, see §
152.051
§ 151.01 DEFINITION OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER or MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure
constructed so as to permit its being used as a conveyance on a public street
and so as to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling by one or more persons.
   PERSON. Includes persons, partnership, firm, company, corporation, tenant,
owner, lessee or licensee, their agents, heirs or assigns.
   TRAILER CAMP or TRAILER PARK. Includes an area of land designed, maintained
or intended for the purpose of supplying a location or accommodations for any
automobile trailer, mobile home or trailer, and upon which two or more such
automobile trailers, mobile homes or trailers are parked, and shall also
include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the equipment
thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the trailer camp or trailer
park and its facilities or not. This definition shall not include automobile or
trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are parked for purposes of
inspection and sale.
   UNIT. A section of ground in a trailer camp or trailer park of not less than
3,000 square feet of unoccupied space, minimum width 30 feet by 100 feet, in an
area designated as the location for only one automobile and one trailer.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 151.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A Trailer Commission, consisting of the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission, the Mayor, the Chief of Police and the Building Inspector of the
city is hereby created, with the Chairperson of the Planning Commission as
Chairperson of the Trailer Commission.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of this Commission to enforce all
provisions of this chapter as prescribed herein, or as may herein be enacted,
and for the purpose of securing such enforcement, said Commission or its duly
authorized representatives or any individual member of said Commission, shall
have the right and are hereby empowered to enter upon any premises on which any
automobile trailers, mobile homes or trailers, are located, or are about to be
located, and inspect the same and all accommodations connected therewith, at
any reasonable time. The Commission is further empowered to issue orders
granting renewing and revoking such permits and licenses as are provided for in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 151.03 LOCATION OUTSIDE OF CAMPS AND PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful within the city limits of the city, for any
person to park any trailer or mobile home on any street, alley or highway, or
any other public place or on any tract of land owned by any person, occupied or
unoccupied, within the city, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley or highway, for not longer than two hours, subject to any other and
further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and
parking regulations or ordinances for that street, alley or highway.
   (C)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer on the premises of any
occupied dwelling or on any lot which is not a part of the premises of any
occupied dwelling, either of which is situated outside an approved trailer camp
or trailer park; except, the parking of only one unoccupied trailer in an
accessory private garage building, or in a rear yard in any district, is
permitted, providing no living quarters shall be maintained or any business
practiced in said trailer while it is so parked or stored.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 PERMANENT OCCUPANCY.
   Automobile trailers or mobile homes shall be used as a permanent place of
abode or as a permanent dwelling or for indefinite periods of time, only if
located in an approved trailer camp or trailer park, and only if such trailer
is properly connected with the city water supply and sanitary sewer system, and
constructed and located in compliance with all requirements of the building,
plumbing, sanitary, health, zoning and electrical ordinances of the city, and
not inhabited by a greater number of occupants that for which it was designed,
and only in a licensed trailer camp or trailer park.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain,
or permit to be established, operated or maintained, upon any property owned or
controlled by him or her, a trailer camp or trailer park, without having first
secured a license therefor from the Trailer Commission, granted and existing in
compliance with the terms of this chapter. Such license shall expire one year
from the date of issuance, but may be renewed under the provisions of this
chapter for additional periods of one year.
   (B)   The application for such license or renewal shall be filed with the
Chairperson of the Trailer Commission and shall be accompanied by a fee of $100
for one to ten trailers, $200 for ten to 20 trailers and an increase of $100
for each additional ten trailers for which accommodations exist. If the number
is increased, this shall be reported to the Chairperson of Trailer Commission
and the additional fee, if any, occasioned by such increase, shall be paid
before the additional spaces are put to use. When a license is applied for or
accommodations are increased during the license year, including the month said
license is applied for, the application shall be accompanied by a plan or map
showing the area to be used; roadways and driveways; location of sanitary
conveniences, including toilets, washrooms, laundries and utility rooms to be
used by occupants of the trailers; plan for water supply; and plan for
electrical connections.
   (C)   Before such license may be issued, a majority of the Trailer
Commission shall inspect said premises and approve the same as complying with
all of the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances of
the city.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 151.06 ZONING.
   (A)   No trailer camp or trailer park shall be located in an R-1 or R-
2 Residence District, or B-1 or B-2 Business District of the city or I-
Industrial District, as defined in the zoning regulations, as codified in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances, and shown on the zoning map of the
city. No trailer camp or trailer park shall be located within the fire limits
of the city as defined in the Building Code of the city.
   (B)   The Planning Commission of the city may, in conformance with the
zoning laws, recommend, and the Trailer Commission may issue a license for the
location of a trailer camp or trailer park in any district in which licenses
are herein prohibited, after a public hearing, if, upon such hearing said
Trailer Commission finds that denial of such license will cause unnecessary
hardship on the applicant and find in addition that the owners of all property
within 200 yards of the proposed camp or park will not suffer unnecessary
hardship by reason of the operation of the camp at its proposed location. The
Board of Zoning Appeals shall file its findings and conclusions in writing with
the City Council, a copy to be made available to the Trailer Commission,
following the public hearing required before granting a variance.
   (C)   No trailer camp or trailer park shall be located within the limits of
the city, unless city water and sewer connections and fire protection
facilities are available.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 PLAN OF TRAILER CAMP OR TRAILER PARK.
   (A)   Every trailer camp or trailer park shall be located on a well-drained
area, and the premises properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of
stormwater or other waters.
   (B)   Units shall be clearly arranged so as to face or abut on a driveway of
not less than 16 feet in width, with easy access from all units to a public
street. Such driveway shall be kept in good travelable condition and preferable
paved, having natural drainage into a city street catch basin, be well lighted
at night, and not obstructed.
   (C)   Each unit shall be furnished with an electric service outlet and shall
have water furnished through a pipe distribution system connected directly with
the city water system.
   (D)   Mobile home stands shall be so constructed as to prevent heaving,
shifting or uneven settling under the weight of the mobile home due to frost
action, drainage, vibration or forces acting on the superstructure of the
mobile home. Anchors should be provided at least at each corner of the mobile
home and should be able to withstand a tension force of at least 4,800 pounds.
All mobile homes are to be underskirted within 60 days after installation.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every such trailer camp or trailer park shall have erected thereon a
suitable building for housing toilets, showers and laundry facilities, such
building to be known as the service building. There shall be provided for each
sex at least one toilet for each eight units. Toilet rooms shall contain
lavatories, with hot and cold water, in the ratio of one lavatory to each two
toilets. Separate bathing facilities for each sex shall be provided, with one
shower for each eight units, which shower compartment shall be supplemented by
an individual dressing compartment of at least 12 square feet. Such facilities
shall be constructed so as to maintain the same in a reasonably clean sanitary
condition. The requirements set forth under this section shall not be required
if the trailers or mobile homes are equipped with such facilities.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 WASTE AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All waste from showers, toilets, laundries, faucets and lavatories
shall be disposed of through proper plumbing connections with the city sewer
system.
   (B)   Each unit shall be provided with a substantial metal garbage
depository which is water-tight, rodent-proof and not over 35-gallon capacity
container. Concrete platforms, metal racks or holders shall be provided for
containers to facilitate clean-up and sanitary conditions.
   (C)   Solid waste shall be collected at least once a week. If municipal
collection service is not available, the camp or park operator shall provide
service in accordance with State Board of Health solid waste regulations.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
breeding areas, rodent harborage, and infestation of insect or rodents of
public health significance.
   (B)   All exterior openings of management buildings or other applicable
structures shall be effectively screened or insects and rodents excluded by
other effective means.
   (C)   The growth of grass, brush and weeds shall be controlled to prevent
the harborage of noxious insects.
   (D)   Mobile home parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of
ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak and other noxious plants considered detrimental
to health and well-being.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 FIRE PROTECTION, FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Fires shall be permitted only in stoves, incinerators or other
equipment designed specifically for that purpose. All mobile home parks shall
comply with state and local fire prevention laws, regulations, ordinances and
codes.
   (B)   LPG systems shall have at least one approved, identified and readily
accessible means of shutting off the entire supply. Such means shall be located
outside the mobile home and maintained in an effective operating condition.
   (C)   All LPG piping outside the mobile home shall be well supported and
protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted LPG in liquid form shall not be
conveyed through any piping equipment or fuel system within a mobile home.
   (D)   LPG containers shall be securely, but not permanently, fastened to
prevent accidental overturning. Valves and connectors shall be listed standard
fittings installed and maintained so as to prevent leaks.
   (E)   LPG containers shall not be located within or beneath any mobile home,
building or other type of enclosed structure. LPG containers shall not be
located within five feet of a door way of a mobile home, building or similar
structure.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Every mobile home park operator shall maintain a register containing a
record of all mobile homes and occupants permitted to use the park. This
register shall be readily available to the Trailer Commission or its appointed
official and/or inspector. This register shall contain the name and mailing
address of all occupants, date of arrival and departure of each mobile home,
make, model and license number of each motor vehicle or home.
   (B)   The person issued a license to operate a mobile home park shall do so
in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall provide
supervision to maintain said park and its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition. The operator shall notify the
park occupants of all applicable provisions of these regulations, duties and
responsibilities.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   Persons owning or in charge of a dog, cat or other pet animal shall not
permit such animal to run at large or to commit any nuisance within the limits
of the mobile home park or adjoining properties. Pets shall be inoculated
against rabies in compliance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   The Trailer Commission is hereby authorized to revoke any license issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter if after due investigation a majority of
said Commission determines that the holder of such license has violated any of
the provisions of this chapter or that any trailer or mobile home is being
maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe manner or is a nuisance.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 151.15 HEARING ON GRANTING, DENIAL, RENEWAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any person aggrieved by an order of the Trailer Commission granting,
denying, renewing or revoking a license under this chapter may file a written
request for a hearing before the Trailer Commission, within ten days after
issuance of such order. The Commission shall give notice of a public hearing
upon this request, to be held in not less than five days after service of the
notice on the parties requesting the hearing. The Commission shall determine
whether the granting, denial, renewal or revocation of the license was in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue a written
finding of fact and an order to carry out its findings and conclusions. These
findings of fact and order shall be filed with the City Recorder and copies
served by the Commission upon all parties appearing or represented by counsel
at such hearing.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 151.16 COURT REVIEW.
   Any order granting, denying, renewing or revoking any license under the
provisions of this chapter, may be appealed to the Circuit Court of the county
in the same manner as appeals from any order under the zoning regulations of
the city are appealed.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $10 and not more than $100 for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-8-1983)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Districts
   
152.003   Boundaries of districts
   
152.004   Application of regulations
   
152.005   Definitions
Zoning Regulations
   
152.020   R-1 Single-Family Residence District
   
152.021   R-2 Family Residence District
   
152.022   R-3 Apartment Residential District
   
152.023   Accessory uses, residence districts
   
152.024   B-1 Neighborhood-Highway Commercial
   
152.025   B-2 Central Business District
   
152.026   I-1 Industrial District
Exceptions to Zoning Regulations
   
152.040   Two-family or multiple-dwelling in R-1 Residence District
   
152.041   Community garages in residence districts
   
152.042   Garages accessory to multiple-dwellings
   
152.043   Public garages in business districts
   
152.044   Service stations in business districts
   
152.045   Filling station in business districts
   
152.046   Retail beer or alcoholic beverage in business districts
   
152.047   Manufacturing in business districts
   
152.048   Off street parking
   
152.049   Signs and advertising structures
   
152.050   Planned-unit development
   
152.051   Design standard requirements for single-family dwelling units
Nonconforming Uses
   
152.065   General
Schedule of Height and Area Controls
   
152.080   Schedule of height and area controls
Application of Height Limitations
   
152.095   General
Exceptions to Height Limitations
   
152.110   Height of monuments, spires and the like
   
152.111   Height of special buildings
   
152.112   Appurtenances to buildings
   
152.113   Allowance for terraces
Application of Area Regulations
   
152.130   General
   
152.131   Front yards
   
152.132   Side yards
   
152.133   Rear yards
   
152.134   Courts
   
152.135   Lot area per family
   
152.136   Accessory buildings
Walls and Fences
   
152.150   Wall and fence height measurement
   
152.151   Height limits for walls and fences
   152.152   Setback requirements
   
152.153   General requirements
   
152.154   Temporary enclosures and structures
   
152.155   Fences built prior to passage of subchapter
Administration
   
152.170   Administrative officer
   
152.171   Plats
   
152.172   Building permit; certificate of ownership
   
152.173   Interpretation; purpose
Change and Amendments
   
152.185   Procedure
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
152.200   General
   
152.201   Meetings
   
152.202   Appeals
   
152.203   Powers, authority and duties
Planning Commission
   
152.220   General
   
152.221   Membership
   
152.222   Meetings
   
152.223   Officers
   
152.224   Governing body’s duties
   
152.225   Power and duties of Planning Commission
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as “the zoning chapter”.
   (B)   The map herein referred to, which is identified by the title of “Zone
Map of Kingwood, West Virginia”, and which is hereby declared to be a part of
this chapter, shall be known as the “zone map”.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.002 DISTRICTS.
   The city is hereby divided into six zoning districts and six height and area
districts, which shall be known as:
 
Zoning Districts
R-1 Single-Family Residential
R-2 Two-Family Residential
R-3 Apartment Residential
B-1 Neighborhood Highway Commercial
B-2 Central Business District
I-1 Industrial
 
Height and Area Districts
R-1 30 foot districts (Residence)
R-2 30 foot districts (Residence)
R-3 40 foot districts (Residence)
B-1 50 foot districts
B-2 50 foot districts
I-1 100 foot districts
 
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.003 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The location and boundaries of districts are and shall be as shown
on the zone map; provided that, where the designation on the zone map indicates
a district boundary approximately on a street or alley, or lot line, such
district boundary shall then be construed to be located on said street, alley
or lot line.
      (2)   The location, clarification, and/or addition of zoning districts
should be specifically described in writing within this chapter. The zone map
as hereinbefore referred to shall identify location and boundaries of each
zoning district as specifically described within this chapter. Should a
specific tract of area of real estate not be included within this chapter in a
written description identifying its placement within a specific zoning
district, the zone map designation as to zoning district for said specific
tract or area of real estate shall determine the actual zoning district of the
real estate in question. Should the zone map identify a use different from the
use identified by the written description within this chapter, the zone map
shall supersede the written description and the written description shall be
altered accordingly.
   (B)   Zoning districts. 
      (1)   (a)   All real estate fronting upon and abutting to West Virginia
State Route 7 within the city limits, with the exception of that real estate
identified in this chapter herein, shall be designated as B-1 (Neighborhood
Highway Commercial).
         (b)   The B-1 designation for this specifically identified property
shall extend from West Virginia State Route 7 to the right-of-way of any city
street running parallel or perpendicular to State Route 7, provided that said
property designated as B-1 shall be contiguous to that property abutting to and
fronting on State Route 7 without interruption, and all of said property shall
be titled in the name of the same individual, firm, or corporation. Any lot or
lots adjoining property which fronts and abuts to State Route 7 may be
designated B-1 in order to enlarge the B-3 property, provided said lot or lots
are contiguous and do not extend beyond a public street or alley. All property
so designated as B-1 within this chapter must have primary and direct access
from State Route 7 with the additional right to have access and egress to said
lot from any perpendicular street abutting to said lot, if applicable and
desired by property owner.
         (c)   There shall be no access to a business located upon a lot or
lots abutting to and fronting on State Route 7 for public or commercial use
from a parallel street abutting said B-1 property, unless said property
abutting to the opposite side of said parallel street has been designated as a
similar zoning district to that of B-1. Private access to the property from
parallel streets shall be permitted for non-truck and non-public use. Rules
pertaining to parallel streets as hereinbefore set forth shall also apply to
any form of advertising conducted by said business located on B-1 property
abutting and fronting on State Route 7.
      (2)   All property abutting to and fronting on West Virginia State Route
7 extending from the corner of Morgantown Street and Main Street and running
east to Morgan Street shall be designated as B-2 (Central Business District).
All other applicable restrictions as set forth in this chapter herein shall
apply to said property abutting to and fronting on State Route 7 and designated
as B-2.
      (3)   When a zoning district designated as B-1, B-2, and I-1 abuts to any
R-designated zoning district (R-1, Single-Family Residential; R-2, Two-Family
Residential; R-3, Apartment Residential), a privacy border may be required by
the City Council in order to protect the integrity of the R-designated
neighborhood. Said privacy border requirement, if appropriate, shall be set
forth in the building permit issued by said Council.
      (4)   (a)   Properties west of and abutting North Price Street that are
not already deemed as R-1 will go from R-3 to R-1.
         (b)   Properties south and east of Pleasantdale Road change from I-
1 to R-1.
         (c)   Two properties extending west from intersection of Charles/
Murdock Street and Sisler Street change from R-3 to R-2.
         (d)   Properties abutting the eastern side of Chestnut Avenue change
from R-1 to R-3.
         (e)   Corner property abutting Spring Hill Drive and Morgantown Street
from most northern, abutting to the most southern abutting Beverly Street
change from R-1 to B-1.
         (f)   Properties abutting the western side of Tunnelton Street to the
junction of Tunnelton Street to Shower Bath Road change from R-3 to B-1.
         (g)   Properties between South Price Street and Morgan Street abutting
High Street and extending to properties abutting Route 26 change from R-1 to B-
1.
         (h)   Properties abutting Route 26 south of intersection of Lincoln
Avenue change from R-1 to B-1.
         (i)   Properties abutting Route 26 and Kingwood Avenue change from R-
1 to B-1.
         (j)   Properties encompassed by Brown Ave., Tunnelton Street, Price
Street and Shower Bath Road that abut Tunnelton Street change from B-2 to B-1.
         (k)   Property from Pleasantdale Road to parallel to Shaffer Street
abutting North Price Street to North Sigler Street change from R-3 and B-1 to
I-1.
         (l)   Properties south of and encompassed by Big Four Road change from
R-3 to B-1.
         (m)   Property east of and abutting Big Four Road and railroad bed
change from R-3 to I-1.
         (n)   Property (Matthews parking lot) which extends northward behind
five R-3 properties that abut Sisler Street change from R-3 to R-1.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.004 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Hereafter, no land shall be used or occupied and no building shall be
erected, altered, used or occupied, except in conformity with the regulations
herein established for the district in which such land, building or structure
is located.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any roadway or public way dedicated to public use and 20 feet or less
in width.
   COMMUNITY GARAGE. A group of private garages, either detached or under one
roof, arranged in a row or around a common means of access, and erected for the
use of residents in the immediate vicinity.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, unobstructed from the lowest level to the sky.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting on two or more streets at their intersection.
   CURB LEVEL. The elevation of the top of the curb or the established curb
grade opposite the center of the building or portion thereof under
consideration.
   DEAD SPACE. Any area that is enclosed, preventing reasonable access or usage
without easement.
   DEPTH OF LOT. The mean horizontal distance between the front line and rear
lot line.
   DWELLINGS, ONE-FAMILY-DWELLING. A separate, detached building designed for
and occupied exclusively as a residence for one family.
   FAMILY. An individual; or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster relationship, living together; or a group of two or more
individuals, not related by blood or marriage, but living together as a single,
non-profit housekeeping unit whose relationship is of a permanent and distinct
domestic character, with a demonstrable and recognizable bond where each party
is responsible for the basic material needs of the other.
   FILLING STATION. A building or lot where motor vehicles are supplied with
gasoline and lubricant and shall be understood to include facilities for
washing and greasing such motor vehicles.
   FRONT YARD. A yard across the full width of the lot, extending from the
front line of the building to the front line of the lot.
   HALF-STORY. A story under a gabled, hipped or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than three and
one-half feet above the finished floor of such story.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the curb level to
the highest point on the roof adjacent to the street wall for flat roofs; to
the deck line for mansard roofs; and to the mean height between eaves and ridge
for gabled, hipped or gambrel roofs.
   HEIGHT OF TERRACE. The difference in elevation between the curb level and
the top of the terrace at the center of the building wall.
   INNER COURT. A court not extending to a street or alley or to a front or
rear yard.
   INTERIOR LOT. A lot the side lines of which do not abut on a street.
   LOT. A parcel of land which is or may be occupied by a building and
accessory buildings, including the open spaces required under this chapter.
   MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT. Equipment including, but not limited to, HVAC units,
refrigeration units, compressors, generators, and the like.
   MIXED OCCUPANCY. Occupancy of a building or land for more than one use.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A dwelling designed or occupied otherwise than as a one-
family dwelling, or a two-family dwelling. The term MULTIPLE DWELLING, shall be
understood to include apartment houses, tenement houses and all other family
dwellings of similar character where apartments or suites are occupied and used
as separate and complete housekeeping units; but not to include hotels or
apartment hotels.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land not in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   OUTER COURT. A court extending to a street or alley or to a front or year
yard.
   PORCH. A roofed, open structure projecting from the front, side or rear wall
of a building, and having no enclosed features of glass, wood, or other
material more than 36 inches above the floor thereof, except the necessary
columns to support the roof.
   PRINCIPLE STREET. The frontage on which the dwelling unit’s street address
is located, or if there is no dwelling unit, the street that is most logically
considered as providing the primary front-door access to the property.
   PRIVATE GARAGE. A garage for housing automobiles only, with a capacity for
not more than two motor vehicles. A garage exceeding a two-vehicle capacity,
intended primarily for housing of cars belonging to occupants of the premises,
shall be considered a PRIVATE GARAGE if the lot whereon such garage is located
contains not less than 1,600 square feet for each vehicle capacity.
   PUBLIC GARAGE. A building where automobiles are stored for a fee. A PUBLIC
GARAGE may contain filling station facilities for the cars stored therein. A
PUBLIC GARAGE may contain a room or rooms for displaying cars for sale.
   REAR YARD. A yard across the full width of the lot, extending from the rear
line of the building to the rear line of the lot.
   RETAIL BEER OUTLET. Any person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation selling, serving, delivering or otherwise dispensing cereal malt
beverages or products of the brewing industry, commonly referred to as beer,
lager beer, ale or other mixtures and preparations produced by the brewing
industry.
   SECONDARY FRONT YARD. Applying to a corner lot, the area between the
secondary street right-of-way and the dwelling unit or in the event that there
is no dwelling unit, the SECONDARY FRONT YARD shall be the property line that
is adjacent to the secondary street right-of-way.
   SECONDARY STREET. A street that abuts a property that also abuts a PRINCIPLE
STREET.
   SERVICE STATION. A building where automobiles are serviced or repaired. A
SERVICE STATION may be located in a public garage. When in a separate building,
it may contain filling station facilities for the cars being serviced therein.
   SIDE YARD. A yard between the side lines of the building and the adjacent
side line of the lot, extending from the front yard to the rear yard. If there
be no front yard, the SIDE YARD shall be considered as extending to the front
line of the lot; and, if there be nor rear yard, the SIDE YARD shall be
considered as extending to the rear of the lot.
   SIGNBOARD. Any structure or part thereof on which lettered or pictorial
matter is displayed for advertising or notice purposes.
   STREET. Any roadway or public way dedicated to public use, except an alley.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there be no floor above it
then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which demands its
permanent location on the land; or anything attached to something having a
permanent location on the land.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   TELEPHONE EXCHANGE BUILDING. A building, with its equipment, used or to be
used for the purpose of facilitating transmission and exchange of telephone
messages between subscribers, and other business of the telephone company; but,
in a residence district, as established by this chapter, not to include public
business facilities, repair facilities, storage or plant materials or spare
parts (other than those carried for the particular building) or storage of
equipment, automobiles or trucks or housing, or quarters for installation,
repair or trouble crews.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which offers premises for development, sale, lease,
or rent, or is otherwise for a temporary purpose, such as a special event,
grand opening, public election or referendum, and the like.
   TERRACE. A natural or artificial embankment between a building and its lot
lines.
   THROUGH LOT. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   TWO-FAMILY-DWELLING. A separate, detached building designed for and occupied
exclusively as a residence for two families.
   UNIT OF PROPERTY. Any lot or group of continuous lots under one ownership.
   VISIBILITY TRIANGLE. The area at an intersection encompassed by the triangle
formed by measuring 20 feet linearly along the property lines parallel to the
public right-of-way. There shall be no visible obstructions within the
VISIBILITY TRIANGLE between the heights of 36 and 120 inches.
   WIDTH OF COURT. The least horizontal dimension of a court at its lowest
level.
   YARD. An open, unoccupied space, other than a court, on the same lot with a
building, unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except as otherwise provided
herein.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 152.020 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   In an R-1 Single-Family Residence District, land may be used and buildings
may be erected, altered or used only for the following:
   (A)   One-family dwelling;
   (B)   Church or other place of worship;
   (C)   School, including such adjacent buildings necessary to house supplies,
facilities or classrooms;
   (D)   Library;
   (E)   Museum;
   (F)   Park (not including an amusement park operated for profit);
   (G)   Playground or athletic field;
   (H)   Country club;
   (I)   Home garden, home green house or home nursery; and
   (J)   Accessory use incident to any of the principal uses above listed and
not involving the conduct of a business. House trailers shall not be considered
an accessory use.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.021 R-2 FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   In an R-2 Two-Family Residence District, land may be used and buildings may
be erected, altered, or used only as follows:
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-1 Single-Family Residence District.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.022 R-3 APARTMENT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   In an R-3 Apartment Residential District, land may be used and buildings may
be erected, altered, or used only as follows:
   (A)   Any use permitted in an R-1 Single-Family Residence District;
   (B)   Multiple dwelling;
   (C)   Lodging house or boarding house;
   (D)   Clubhouse (not including a club the chief activity of which is a
service customarily carried on as a business);
   (E)   Hospital, other than a hospital for persons suffering from insanity or
from diseases such as are commonly isolated in a separate building;
   (F)   Public or semi-public institution, educational or charitable (not
including a jail, reformatory or other correctional institution);
   (G)   Electric sub-station without rotary machinery; or gas regulating
station; and
   (H)   Accessory uses incident to any of the principal uses above listed and
not involving the conduct of a business. House trailers shall not be considered
as accessory use.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.023 ACCESSORY USES, RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   In an R-1, R-2, or R-3 Residence District, accessory uses shall be uses
customarily incident to the principal uses listed as permitted. They shall be
understood to include, among other things:
   (A)   Home occupation/businesses: No portion of a retail or service oriented
occupation, profession, trade or business which involves personal contact with
any party not residing within the residence shall be performed or conducted at
a residence located within the R-1, R-2, and R-3 zoning designations, with the
provision that a day care provider who is not required to obtain a state
license shall be permitted to operate within a personal residence within said
zoning designations and shall be exempt from this section regarding residential
businesses. Should a home occupation/business qualify under the above
guidelines, (such as Avon salesman, house painter, arts and crafts person), the
following provisions shall be applicable to such occupations/businesses:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing at the
residence shall be engaged in such occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants and not more than 20% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be
used in the conduct of the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation.
      (4)   The home occupation shall be conducted only within the principal
structure.
      (5)   There shall be no sales conducted or service performed at the
residence.
      (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in home occupations which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses on lots separate from the residence. In the
case of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which
creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers on
lots separate from the residence.
      (7)   No outdoor storage shall be allowed in connection with any home
occupation.
      (8)   No form of any type of advertisement, including signs or display of
items, shall occur within the residence or upon the grounds of said residence.
      (9)   No form of public advertisement (such as newspaper, telephone book
or flyers) shall be used in reference to the home occupation/business.
   (B)   A private garage, or a separate building, may not be located closer to
the street than existing adjacent structures.
   (C)   A name plate not exceeding two square feet in area.
   (D)   A sign or bulletin board, not exceeding 12 square feet in area, so
placed as not to interfere with front yard requirements nor obstruct the view
across the corner or intersecting streets; and erected upon the premises of a
church or similar institution for the purpose of displaying the name and
activities thereof, or the services herein provided.
   (E)   Should a violation of §
152.023 occur, any person aggrieved or with knowledge of said violation shall
notify the City Council of the municipality of such unlawful action. Said
Council shall immediately give written notice by certified mail with return
receipt to the property owner of said residence requesting that the unlawful
act cease. Should said property owner fail to cease said unlawful act within 20
days of receipt of said notice, said Council shall immediately institute an
action for an injunction, abatement or any other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful use.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.024 B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD-HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   In a B-1 Neighborhood-Highway Commercial District, land may be used
and buildings may be erected, altered or used for local retail or personal
service establishments with adequate off-street parking and amenities to serve
customers and employees as follows:
      (1)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
      (2)   Eating and drinking establishments excepting night clubs and
similar establishments;
      (3)   Food stores and drug stores;
      (4)   Hardware stores;
      (5)   Laundries, hand or automatic;
      (6)   Electronics stores;
      (7)   Business and professional offices;
      (8)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (9)   Hotels and motels;
      (10)   Automobile sales rooms and public home safes;
      (11)   Medical and dental office buildings and testing laboratories;
      (12)   Farm machinery sales; and
      (13)   Video lottery or gaming establishments. An establishment at which
any form of gambling or games of chance are permitted or played, including but
not limited to “video lottery” machines that are licensed or regulated under
the provisions of the Limited Video Lottery Act codified in W. Va. Code §§ 29-
22B-101 et seq. Regulated establishments do not include those establishments
which solely sell lottery tickets. Provided that, no video lottery or gaming
establishment shall be located within 300 feet of any residential zone, public
or private educational institution, church, or other place of public worship,
public park or playground, community center or facility, recreation center or
facility, public building, public arena or other similar structure, or any
other existing video lottery or gaming establishment, as measured in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
portion of the building used as a video lottery or gaming establishment to the
nearest property line of a lot within a residential zone or the nearest
property line of any church, educational institution, the nearest boundary of a
public park or playground, community center or facility, recreation center or
facility, public building, public arena or other similar structure, or other
such video lottery or gaming establishment.
   (B)   Provided further that, nothing in this subchapter shall be construed
to limit or prohibit charitable organizations from holding charitable bingo or
charitable raffles conducted pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter
47, Article 20 and Article 21. Any property owner who has on the property an
existing video lottery or gaming establishment having been in operation on the
date this subchapter becomes effective shall be considered “grand fathered”, so
that such use may continue as a non-conforming use under the laws and
ordinances that regulate such nonconforming uses.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.025 B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   In a central business district, land may be used and buildings may be
erected, altered or used for local retail or personal service establishments
within the requirement of off street parking and amenities to serve customers
and employees for any use permitted in the B-1 Commercial District, except
video lottery or gaming establishments.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.026 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   In an industrial district, land may be used and buildings may be
erected, altered or used for any industrial purpose except the following
prohibited uses:
      (1)   Abattoir (slaughterhouse);
      (2)   Acetylene gas (manufacture of compound acetylene in excess of 15
pounds pressure per square inch);
      (3)   Acid manufacture;
      (4)   Animal fertilizer manufacture;
      (5)   Asphalt manufacture or refining;
      (6)   Brick, tile or terra-cotta manufacture;
      (7)   Celluloid manufacture or storage;
      (8)   Cement, lime or gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture;
      (9)   Chlorine or bleaching power manufacturing or refining;
      (10)   Coke ovens;
      (11)   Coal tax products manufacture;
      (12)   Creosote manufacture or treatment plant;
      (13)   Distillation of bones, coal or wood;
      (14)   Dye-stuff manufacture;
      (15)   Emery cloth or sand paper manufacture;
      (16)   Fat rendering, soap, tallow, lard, or grease manufacture or
refining;
      (17)   Garbage, offal, dead animals, or refuse incineration, reduction or
storage;
      (18)   Gas manufacture or storage in excess of 10,000 cubic feet;
      (19)   Gasoline service station (permitted under conditions prescribed in
§
152.045);
      (20)   Gasoline storage in excess of an amount necessary for use or sale
at retail on the premises;
      (21)   Glue, size or gelatin manufacture;
      (22)   Gunpowder, fireworks or other explosive manufacture or storage;
      (23)   Iron or steel foundry, blast furnace, rolling mill;
      (24)   Iron or steel works if of a character cited in subsection 42;
      (25)   Match manufacture;
      (26)   Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture;
      (27)   Ore reduction and general smelting operations;
      (28)   Paint, oil, shellac, turpentine or varnish manufacture;
      (29)   Petroleum refining or storage in excess of an amount necessary for
use on the premises;
      (30)   Paper and pulp manufacture;
      (31)   Potash manufacture;
      (32)   Printing manufacture;
      (33)   Rock or slag crushing;
      (34)   Rubber caoutchouc or gutta percha manufacture or treatment;
      (35)   Soda ash, caustic soda or washing compound manufacture;
      (36)   Stone quarry;
      (37)   Slag dump;
      (38)   Stockyards;
      (39)   Tanning, curing or storage or raw hides or skins;
      (40)   Tar distillation or manufacture;
      (41)   Tar roofing or tar waterproofing manufacture; and
      (42)   In general, those uses which may be noxious or offensive, by
reason of the emission of odor, dust, smoke gas, vibration or noise.
   (B)   In an industrial district, land may be used and buildings may be
erected, altered or used for the following conditional uses by variance:
      (1)   Video lottery or gaming establishments; and
      (2)   Night clubs and similar establishments.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
EXCEPTIONS TO ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 152.040 TWO-FAMILY OR MULTIPLE-DWELLING IN R-1 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   In an R-1 Single-Family Residence District, any structure permitted in an R-
2 and R-3 District may be erected on a lot the side of which adjoins a B-1 or
B-2 or Industrial District, provided that the height of the dwelling, the lot
area per family housed thereon, and the open spaces on the lot are in
accordance with the regulations herein prescribed for the height and area
districts in which such dwelling is located.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.041 COMMUNITY GARAGES IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   In any residence district, a community garage may be erected in the interior
of a block, provided:
   (A)   That no portion of such building shall be neared that 60 feet to the
frontage of the block or nearer than 40 feet to a street line along the side of
the block;
   (B)   That no portion of such building shall be less than 15 feet from the
center of an alley; and
   (C)   That no portion of such building shall be nearer than 200 feet to an
existing dwelling.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.042 GARAGES ACCESSORY TO MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   In an R-3 Residence District, a garage with storage space to the extent of
nor more than one car for each family may be erected upon the same lot with a
multiple dwelling, for the housing of automobiles for those who have residence
in such dwelling, provided:
   (A)   A garage, if a separate building, must be constructed to conform with
the line of existing adjacent structures;
   (B)   That no repair facilities are maintained and no repairs except those
of minor nature be made; and
   (C)   That any door for vehicles, opening upon a street, shall be at least
20 feet from the street line and an open, unoccupied space shall be maintained
between said door and the street line. The height of such open, unoccupied
space shall not be less than 12 feet and the other dimensions shall be such
that no part of the building encroaches on the triangular area circumscribed by
lines joining the center of the doorway and the two points on the street line,
one on each side of the center line of the doorway and 12 feet there from.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.043 PUBLIC GARAGES IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   In B-1 and B-2 Districts a public garage may be established, erected or
enlarged, provided:
   (A)   That no entrance or exit of such garage, for vehicles, shall be within
200 feet of the entrance to any school, playground, church, hospital or public
library, or within 100 feet of any residence district established by this
chapter;
   (B)   That no repair facilities shall be maintained on the front portion of
the lot, or in the front portion of the first story of the building, within 30
feet of the street; and
   (C)   That any door for vehicles, opening upon a street, shall be at least
20 feet from the street line and an open, unoccupied space shall be maintained
between said door and the street line. The height of such open, unoccupied
space shall be not less than 12 feet and other dimensions shall be such that no
part of the building encroaches on the triangular area circumscribed by lines
adjoining the center of the doorway and two points on the street line, one on
each side of the center line of the doorway and 12 feet therefrom.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.044 SERVICE STATIONS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   In B-1 and B-2 Districts, a service station may be established, erected or
enlarged, provided:
   (A)   That no entrance or exit of such service station, or garage, for
vehicles shall be within 200 feet of the entrance to any school, playground,
church, hospital or public library, or within 100 feet of any residence
district established by this chapter;
   (B)   That no repair facilities shall be maintained on the front portion of
the lot, or in the front section of the first story of the building within 30
feet of the street; and
   (C)   That any door for vehicles, opening upon a street, shall be at least
30 feet from the street line and an open, unoccupied space shall be maintained
between said door and the street line. The height of such open, unoccupied
space shall be not less than 12 feet and other dimensions shall be such that no
part of the building encroaches on the triangular area circumscribed by lines
joining the center of the doorway and two points on the street line, one on
each side of the center line of the doorway and 12 feet therefrom.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.045 FILLING STATION IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   A filling station may be established, erected or enlarged in any B-1 or B-
2 Districts, or in any industrial district, provided:
   (A)   That no equipment for the service of gasoline or oil be placed closer
than 15 feet to any street line;
   (B)   That no portion of such building or its equipment be within 40 feet of
any residence district established by this chapter; and
   (C)   That any door for vehicles, opening upon a street, shall be at least
30 feet from the street line and an open, unoccupied space shall be maintained
between said door and the street line. The height of such open, unoccupied
space shall not be less than 12 feet and other dimensions shall be such that
not part of the building encroaches on the triangular area circumscribed by
lines joining the center of the doorway and two points on the street line, one
on each side of the center line of the doorway and 12 feet therefrom.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.046 RETAIL BEER OR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   In the B-1 and B-2 Business Districts, retail beer or alcoholic beverage
outlets may be established, erected or enlarged, provided that no entrance or
exit of such retail beer or alcoholic beverage outlet shall be within 300 feet
of the entrance to any school, playground, church, or public library; or within
100 feet of any residence district established by this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.047 MANUFACTURING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   In a B-l or B-2 District, manufacturing not prohibited in an industrial
district, and not otherwise excepted by this chapter, may be established and
maintained subject to the following limitations:
   (A)   Such manufacturing processes shall not occupy the front portion of the
first story of a building, within 30 feet of any street line;
   (B)   Such manufacturing processes shall not occupy an area exceeding 50% of
the floor area of the building; and
   (C)   Such manufacturing processes shall not be located within 100 feet of
any residence district, as established by this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.048 OFF STREET PARKING.
   (A)   No application for a building permit or use and occupancy permit shall
be approved for residential or business unless there is included with the plan
for such building, improvement, or use, a plot plan showing the required space
designated for off-street parking. The plot plan shall clearly show the size
and location of parking spaces, width and arrangement of access driveways, and
arrangement of walls, fences and screen planting. A minimum number of off
street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the following
schedule where (1) means (per) in spaces per unit.
Use Spaces Required
Use           Spaces Required
Automobile
service       (1/2) employees plus 1/owner or manager
station
Banks or      1/300 sq. ft. of floor area
offices
Beauty
parlors or    1/300 sq. ft. of floor area shops
barbers
Boarding,
rooming, or   1/guest sleeping room
lodging
houses
Bowling       5/alley
alleys
Car wash -    1/3 employees plus 1/owner or manager and reserve spaces equal to 5
machine       times capacity of machine wash
Car wash -
stall or by   1/stall
hand
Churches      1/4 seats in auditorium or 1/12 in classrooms, whichever is greater
Commercial
recreation    1/4 persons in designated capacity of facility
uses
Convalescent,
nursing,
doctor and    1/4 beds 1/12 employees plus 1/staff
other health
homes and
institutions
Dormitories,
fraternity,   1/3 beds plus 1/manager and ½ full-time employees
and sorority
houses
Funeral homes 8/parlor or chapel, plus 1/funeral vehicle
or mortuaries
Hotels        (1/2) sleeping rooms and 1/3 employees
Medical       4/doctor
clinics
Laundromats   (1/2) washing machines
Libraries and 1/250 sq. ft. of area open to public, plus 1/500 sq. ft. of other
museums       gross floor area
Motels and
tourist       1/sleeping room or suite plus 1/owner or manager
courts
Private
clubs, lodge
halls, and    1/rooming unit plus spaces equal to 30% of capacity in persons
union
headquarters
Residential   1/single-family detached; 1-1/2/dwelling unit for all other
structures
Restaurants,
nightclubs,   1/100 sq. ft. of floor area plus 1/4 employees
taverns and
lounges
Retail
stores,
supermarkets,
department    1/200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
stores and
personal
service shops
Schools
(public or
private):
elementary,
high school,  (1/2) teachers, employees, or administrators plus 1/6 seats in
college,      assembly hall OR ½ teachers, employees, and administrators plus 1/10
university or students
other
institution
of higher
learning
Theaters,
auditoriums,
and places of 1/4 seats plus ½ employees
assembly with
fixed seats
Trailer or
monument      1/2,500 sq. ft. of lot area
sales,
auctions
Video lottery 1/100 sq. ft. of floor area plus 1/employee or 1/licensed gaming
establishment machine plus 1//employee, whichever is larger
 
   (B)   Reasonable and appropriate off street parking requirements for
structures and land uses which do not fall within the categories listed above
shall be determined by the City Council, who shall consider all factors
entering into the parking needs of each use. The off street parking
requirements for two or more uses may be satisfied by providing a common
facility containing not less than the sum of the number of space required for
each of the uses.
   (C)   In cases of development of properties where several uses could
effectively use the same parking area, because of different periods of peak
demand, the applicant may appear before the Board of Zoning Appeals to present
a modified parking plan. The Board is authorized to approve such plans, when
appropriate, after referral to the Planning Commission. The Board shall require
written evidence of an agreement for joint use, and may impose any necessary
additional conditions. Following are the design and development standards for
off-street parking spaces:
      (1)   One automobile parking space shall consist of at least 200 square
feet of area, with a minimum width of nine feet. Adequate interior driveways
and entrance and exit driveways shall be provided.
      (2)   All parking areas designed to accommodate more than four cars shall
be surfaced with materials which will eliminate problems of dust and mud, and
shall be so drained as to prevent erosion damage to abutting properties or
streets.
      (3)   When lighting of parking areas is provided, installations shall be
arranged so as not to reflect or to cause glare into abutting residential lots
or adjacent streets.
      (4)   No sign of any kind, other than one designating entrances, exits,
or conditions of use shall be maintained on a parking area on that side which
abuts or faces any premises situated in any residential zone. Such signs shall
not exceed eight square feet in area, nor shall there be more than one such
sign for each entrance or exit.
      (5)   Parking areas shall be designed with careful regard given to
orderly arrangement, topography, amenity of view, ease of access, and as an
integral part of the overall site design.
      (6)   If any proposed parking area is to have a capacity of 20 or more
automobiles, at least 5% of the total area of the lot is to be planted with
trees, shrubs, and other landscape materials.
      (7)   Off street parking areas for more than five vehicles shall be
effectively screened on each side which adjoins or faces an institutional
premise or any premises located in a residential district. The screening shall
consist of a masonry wall, solid fence, dense plantings, or other landscape
feature of acceptable design. A wall or fence shall not be less than three feet
or more than six feet six inches in height.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.049 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING STRUCTURES.
   A separate building permit shall be required for any such sign, pennant, or
notice not specifically included in an original building permit, except as
provided hereinafter.
   (A)   Signs exempt from regulations. The following signs are exempt from the
regulations contained in this article:
      (1)   Signs advertising the sale or lease of property;
      (2)   Signs indicating the architect, engineer, project name, source of
financing and contractor when displayed during the construction period and on a
construction site and removed 30 days after construction in completed;
      (3)   Governmental signs and legal notices;
      (4)   Directional signs not exceeding six square feet in area;
      (5)   Flags of any country, state or unit of local government;
      (6)   Memorial plaques and historical signs;
      (7)   Any lettering or design painted or applied directly to the surface
of windows of a structure;
      (8)   Signs associated with churches and similar places of worship,
located in a non-residential district, not exceeding 96 square feet;
      (9)   Signs associated with public and nonprofit schools, not exceeding
96 square feet;
      (10)   Political signs;
      (11)   Signs hanging or standing inside a building, not attached to a
window or door, visible from a public street;
      (12)   Any signs inside an athletic field or other enclosed outdoor
space; and
      (13)   Business signs of less than 48 square inches.
   (B)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   All temporary signs shall be permitted for a maximum of 30 days
prior to the event they advertise. A building permit is not required for
temporary signs.
      (2)   All temporary signs must be removed within 48 hours after the
conclusion of the event. Any temporary sign still in place after said period
may be confiscated by the city and the owner of the sign
may be subject to prosecution.
   (C)   Signs not to create a traffic hazard. No sign or banner shall be
erected in the visibility triangle as defined in this chapter. Any such signs
shall be removed at the direction of the Mayor of the city. If not removed be
the owner or occupants of the property within ten days, the Mayor may cause the
property owner to be cited for a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Banners.
      (1)   Any business activity located in a B-1, B-2 or I-1 District, with a
permitted permanent sign, may display banners. All banners must be attached to
a permanent structure and no part of the banner or rope/string used to anchor
the banner shall extend past the confines of the permanent structure. This
section will allow a banner to be placed between the permitted poles or
structures of a permitted permanent sign. The total square feet of banners
shall not exceed the total square footage of current permitted signage.
      (2)   No banner shall be erected in the visibility triangle as defined in
this chapter. Any such banners shall be removed at the direction of the Mayor
of the city. If not removed by the owners or occupants of the property within
ten days, the Mayor may cause the property owner to be cited for a violation of
this chapter.
   (E)   Menu board sign. 
      (1)   Menu boards shall be allowed only as an accessory use to a
restaurant permitted to have a drive-thru window provided that:
         (a)   Such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area and six feet
in height;
         (b)   Such signs shall not be legible from a public right-of-way or
adjacent property;
         (c)   There shall be no more than one such sign per property;
         (d)   The color of such signs shall be neutral or earth tone or have
architectural ties to the main building;
         (e)   Such signs may have changeable copy; and
         (f)   Such signs may be internally or directly illuminated.
   (2)   Menu board signs will not count against the total of otherwise allowed
signage.
      (F)   Prohibited signs and devices.
         (1)   Spotlights, floodlights, luminous tubes or lighted signs
installed in any way which will permit the direct rays of such light to
penetrate into any residence;
         (2)   Signs that project above the roofline on which it is mounted
unless attached properly to withstand applicable wind loads as regulated in the
State Building Code;
         (3)   Any sign that copies or imitates an official sign or purports to
have official status;
         (4)   Beacons;
         (5)   Windblown devices;
         (6)   Any sign that obstructs or substantially interferes with any
window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder, or opening intended to provide
air, ingress, or egress to any building;
         (7)   Off-premise and billboard signs of any kind except those allowed
under this chapter;
         (8)   Pylon signs, except those allowed under this chapter;
         (9)   No sign or banner except for authorized traffic signs shall be
erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to create a
traffic hazard by obstructing the visibility triangle, as defined in this
chapter, or at any location where it may interfere with, obstruct the view, or
be confused with any authorized traffic sign; and
         (10)   Signs that flash, blink, rotate, or scroll.
      (G)   Signs generally.
         (1)   Outdoor advertising signs and structures, where permitted, shall
be set back from the established right-of-way line of any street or
thoroughfare, at least as far as the required front yard depth for a principal
building in such districts; provided that for every square foot by which such
signs or billboards exceed 80 square feet, such setback shall be increased by
one-half foot but need not exceed 100 feet, except that at the intersection of
any state or federal highways with a major secondary thoroughfare, the setback
of any outdoor advertising sign or billboard shall not be less than 100 feet
from the established or planned future right-of-way of such highway or street.
         (2)   In any nonresidential district there shall be permitted signs,
including signs painted on buildings, for identification purposes or
advertising products processed, manufactured or sold on the premises either on
the building appurtenant thereto or on the ground, a distance not more than 100
feet from said building; provided such signs do not exceed 50 square feet in
area for each 25 feet of frontage; provided that such signs shall not exceed
two per business and the total area of all such signs shall not exceed 1,000
square feet. Such signs shall require a separate building permit if not
submitted at the time of the submission of permit application for the primary
application for the primary land use.
         (3)   No such billboard, sign, or advertising structure, other than
signs flat against the face of a commercial building, shall face any public
square or entrance to any public park, public or parochial school, library,
church, or similar institution, within 200 feet thereof,
         (4)   The front and back of a sign may be used for sign purposes,
provided that one face may not exceed the limits specified herein, nor may the
area of the total sign faces exceed twice these limits.
         (5)   No billboard or outdoor advertising structure not pertaining to
the use of any property shall be painted or located on any wall, building, or
fence, or erected upon the roof of any building.
      (H)   Removal of signs upon discontinuation of use.
         (1)   Whenever the use of a building or premises by a specified
business or other establishment is discontinued by the owner or occupant for a
period of 90 days, the signs pertaining to that business or establishment that
were installed by the occupant or owner, as well as all signs which do not
conform to the standards of this chapter, shall be removed.
         (2)   Any signs not removed within 30 days following the 90 day period
may be confiscated by the city and the owner of the sign may be subject to
prosecution.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.050 PLANNED-UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   A planned-unit development may be allowed in any district by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Application. In areas where planned-unit developments are proposed,
the owner or owners of the property shall file applications to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. Such applications shall be accepted for consideration under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The area proposed shall be in one ownership or, if in several
ownerships, the proposal for a special exception use shall be filed jointly by
all of the owners of the properties included in the plan.
      (2)   The minimum size of an area proposed for planned-unit development
shall be five acres.
      (3)   The area shall be adaptable to a planned-unit development. It shall
not have running through it a major thoroughfare, railroad, or other physical
feature which will tend to destroy the neighborhood cohesiveness.
      (4)   The area is or can be served with adequate public or community
water and sewerage service meeting Health Department standards.
      (5)   The area is situated so that existing or programmed roads will be
adequate to serve the traffic generated by the development.
   (B)   Data to accompany application. Together with the application for a
special exception for a planned-unit development, there shall be submitted a
tentative, overall development plan, which shall show:
      (1)   Topography;
      (2)   Proposed street system;
      (3)   Proposed lot layout;
      (4)   Proposed reservation for parks, playgrounds, school sites, and
other open spaces;
      (5)   Types of dwellings and portions of the area proposed therefore;
      (6)   Proposed location of dwellings and parking areas;
      (7)   A tabulation of overall density per gross acre; and
      (8)   Preliminary plans and elevations of the several dwelling types.
   (C)   Density of development. The overall density of a planned-unit
development shall not exceed by more than 10% the overall density that it would
be possible to achieve were the site developed in the conventional fashion in
compliance with the ordinary regulations or the district in which it lies. Area
used or reserved for large regional parks, land subject to recurring flood, and
swamp or marsh land shall not be included when computing the density.
   (D)   Application and review procedure. Upon receipt of application for a
special exception permit for a planned-unit development, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall take the matter under consideration. The Board shall consider the
location, arrangement, and size of lots and reservation of open space; the
location, width and grade of streets; the location, arrangement, and height of
buildings; the gross density proposed for the entire area; and such other
features as will contribute to the orderly and harmonious development of the
area, with due regard to the character of the neighborhood and its peculiar
suitability for any one or more of the proposed uses.
   (E)   Modification of design requirements. In review of a planned-unit
development plan, the Planning Commission may waive or modify the area, yard,
height, and other design requirements for the type of development in the
community if such modification will increase the amenities of the development
without sacrificing public health and welfare requirements.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051 DESIGN STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   All single-family dwelling units shall comply with the following
design standards regardless of the zoning district in which said single-family
dwelling unit is situated:
      (1)   The roof pitch shall be minimum of 3:12.
      (2)   Roofing material shall be of a type that is in compliance with the
West Virginia State Building Code.
      (3)   Roof overhang or eaves shall be designed for a minimum of six
inches as measured from the vertical side of the building and not including
rain gutters, which are required.
      (4)   The unit’s exterior finish shall be wood siding, vinyl siding,
composite siding (cement board), stone, brick or other material approved by the
West Virginia State Building Code.
      (5)   A perimeter enclosure is required in accordance with the West
Virginia State Code. For manufactured housing units, all tow bars, axles and
wheels shall be removed. The housing unit shall rest on a required foundation
or basement as a permanent structure.
      (6)   No housing unit shall be less than 24 feet in width.
   (B)   This section shall be read in conjunction with all other sections
adopted by the City of Kingwood in regard to mobile homes, zoning, structures
and building and other matters pertaining to the building of homes within the
municipal boundaries.
(Ord. - -, passed 11-14-2006)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 152.065 GENERAL.
   (A)   The lawful use of land existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, or of an amendment thereto, although such use does not conform to the
provisions hereof, may be continued; but if such nonconforming use be
discontinued, any future use of said land shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This lawful use of a building, existing at the time of the adoption of
this chapter, or of an amendment thereto, although such use does not conform to
the provisions hereof, may be continued and such use may be extended throughout
the building, provided that no structural alterations be made other than those
ordered by the Mayor to assure the safety of the building; and provided further
that such extension does not displace any residence use in a residence district
established by this chapter.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of a building may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or of a more restrictive classification, provided
that no structural alterations be made other than these ordered by the Mayor to
assure the safety of the building; and provided further that such extension
does not displace any residence use in a residence district established by this
chapter.
   (D)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a more
restricted use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be changed
to a less restricted use.
   (E)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or portion thereof has been
discontinued for a period of at least one year, such nonconforming use shall
not thereafter be reestablished, and the future use shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA CONTROLS
§ 152.080 SCHEDULE OF HEIGHT AND AREA CONTROLS.
   (A)   R-1 Single-Family, Residential.
      (1)   10,000 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   10,000 square feet minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   50 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   30/2 one-half maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   25 feet minimum front yard;
      (7)   10/20 feet minimum side yard (one/both);
      (8)   25 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   25 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (B)   R-2 Two-Family, Residential.
      (1)   6,000 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   6,000 square feet minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   50 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   30/2 one-half maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   20 feet minimum front yard;
      (7)   10/20 minimum side yard (one/both);
      (8)   25 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   40 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (C)   R-3 Apartment, Residential, Detached, Single-Family.
      (1)   6,000 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   6,000 square feet minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   50 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   30/2 one-half maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   20 feet minimum front yard;
      (7)   10/20 minimum side yard (one/both);
      (8)   25 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   40 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (D)   R-3 Two-Family.
      (1)   6,500 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   3,250 square feet minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   65 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   40/3 maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   20 feet minimum front yard;
      (7)   10/25 feet minimum side yard (one/both);
      (8)   25 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   40 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (E)   R-3 Multi-Family.
      (1)   10,000 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   1,500 square feet minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   100 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   40/3 maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   40 feet minimum front yard;
      (7)   10/25 minimum side yard (one/both);
      (8)   30 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   35 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (F)   B-1 General Commercial.
      (1)   6,000 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   No minimum lot area;
      (3)   50 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   60 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   50/4 maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   No minimum front yard footage unless adjacent to residential, then
ten feet;
      (7)   No minimum side yard footage unless adjacent to residential, then
ten feet;
      (8)   15 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   60 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (G)   B-2 Central Business District.
      (1)   No minimum lot area;
      (2)   No minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   No minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   50/4 maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   Ten foot minimum front yard;
      (7)   Minimum side yard footage for one/both - none but ten feet if
provided;
      (8)   25 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   70 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (H)   I-1 Industrial.
      (1)   10,000 square feet minimum lot area;
      (2)   No minimum lot area dwelling unit;
      (3)   80 feet minimum lot width;
      (4)   100 feet minimum lot depth;
      (5)   100/6 maximum height (feet/stories);
      (6)   25 feet minimum front yard;
      (7)   Ten feet plus five feet for story in excess of two stories;
      (8)   25 feet minimum rear yard; and
      (9)   50 maximum lot coverage (percent).
   (H)   Permitted uses by district.
      (1)   District R-1, Single-Family or Residential.
         (a)   Purpose. To delineate those areas where predominantly
residential development has occurred or will be likely to occur in accordance
with the general development plan of the city.
         (b)   Permitted principal uses. Single-family dwelling, public parks,
playgrounds, recreational areas, public elementary and high schools and private
schools having curricula comparable to that offered in the public school.
Churches and similar places of worship.
         (c)   Potential accessory uses. Private garage, private recreation
facilities designed and intended for the sole use of the residents therein.
Other customary accessory uses and buildings.
         (d)   Special uses (by variance). Planned unit developments.
      (2)   District R-2, Two-Family Residential.
         (a)   Permitted principal uses. Any use permitted in R-1 residential
districts two-family dwellings.
         (b)   Potential accessory uses. Any accessory use permitted in R-
1 residential districts, customary home occupations.
         (c)   Special uses (by variance). Nursery school.
      (3)   District R-3, Apartment Residential.
         (a)   Purpose. To upgrade the character of all residential areas in
the city by requiring standards of land use and lot and building bulk and size
which more accurately reflect existing development. To protect the integrity of
residential areas by prohibiting the incursion of incompatible non-residential
areas.
         (b)   Permitted principal uses. Any use permitted in R-2 residential
districts.
         (c)   Potential accessory uses. Any accessory use permitted in R-
2 residential districts.
         (d)   Special uses (by variance). Any special use permitted in R-
2 residential districts; mobile homes; farms.
      (4)   District B-1, Neighborhood Highway Commercial.
         (a)   Purpose. To delineate predominantly retail shopping areas
outside of the central business districts. Off street parking and amenities to
serve customers and employees required.
         (b)   Permitted principal uses. Any local retail or personal service
establishment, such as: barber shops and beauty parlors; eating and drinking
establishments except nightclubs and similar establishments; food stores; drug
stores; hardware stores; laundries, hand or automatic; radio and television
stores; business and professional offices; banks and other financial
institutions; hotels and motels; auto sales rooms and public home sales; farm
machinery sales; other business uses which primarily serve highway traffic such
as restaurants, diners, auto repair and service stations; used car lots; and
video lottery or gaming establishments.
         (c)   Potential accessory uses. Signs; off street parking; indoor
storage areas; other accessory uses customarily appurtenant.
         (d)   Special uses (by variance). Automobile service stations; dry
cleaning and clothes pressing establishments; social halls; lodges; and
fraternal organizations.
      (5)   District B-2, Central Business.
         (a)   Purpose. To delineate a centralized area where shopping,
recreation and cultural facilities are provided for the city as a whole. Off
street parking not essential.
         (b)   Permitted principal uses. Business offices and office equipment
and business machine sales and service; funeral parlors; and indoor amusement
enterprises including theaters, bowling alleys, billiard parlors, and the like.
         (c)   Potential accessory uses. Any accessory use permitted in the B-
1 Business District, excepting video lottery or gaming establishment.
         (d)   Special uses (by variance). N/A.
      (6)   District I-1, Industrial.
         (a)   Purpose. To delineate areas best suited to industrial
development because of location, topography, existing facilities and
relationship to other land uses.
         (b)   Permitted principal uses. Any manufacturing, assembly or other
industrial or research operation meeting the requirements of the performance
standards of this enclosed storage of goods and materials, distribution plants,
wholesale businesses.
         (c)   Potential accessory uses. Signs, customary accessory uses
incidental to a permitted use.
         (d)   Special uses (by variance). Open storage essential to any
permitted principal use that for special reasons cannot be enclosed in a
building; extraction of stone sand and gravel; video lottery or gaming
establishments; and night clubs or similar establishments.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
APPLICATION OF HEIGHT LIMITATIONS
§ 152.095 GENERAL.
   The height limit of this chapter shall be applied as follows:
   (A)   A cellar or basement, when designed for occupancy as a dwelling,
unless two-thirds of its height be below curb level. shall be counted as a
story; when otherwise designed and used, it shall not be counted as a story.
   (B)   On a corner lot having two or more frontages, the height shall be
taken from a level midway in elevation between the highest curb level and the
lowest curb level; and this height limitation shall apply upon such lot not
farther than to the center line of the block, beyond which any portion of the
same lot shall have a height limitation similar to that applying upon the
property next adjacent thereto.
   (C)   On a through lot, the height limit, including all exceptions thereto,
beginning at either frontage, shall apply to a depth not exceeding one-half the
depth of the lot.
   (D)   On an interior lot, the height limit, including all exceptions
thereto, shall apply to a depth equal to one-half the depth of the block as
measured from frontage to frontage on a line projected through the enter of the
lot in question. Any rear portion of such lot beyond the center line of the
block shall have a height limit similar to that applying upon the lot
immediately abutting in the rear thereof.
   (E)   Regardless of how a lot lays, the building thereon shall not exceed a
maximum height of 50 feet.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS
§ 152.110 HEIGHT OF MONUMENTS, SPIRES, AND THE LIKE.
   In any height and area district, the height limitation of the district may
be exceeded by a monument, shaft, spire, dome or tower, if erected for
ornamental purposes only.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.111 HEIGHT OF SPECIAL BUILDINGS.
   In any business or industrial district, the height limitations of the
district may be exceeded by buildings requiring special design on account of
their particular use in industry or commerce, such as chimneys, stacks, grain
elevators, detached water or wireless towers provided that they otherwise
comply with the regulations herein prescribed.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.112 APPURTENANCES TO BUILDINGS.
    In any height and area district, chimneys, stacks elevator bulkheads,
penthouses, gas or water towers, stage towers or scenery lofts, electric signs,
wireless towers, and other necessary mechanical appurtenances, where permitted
by the use regulations and erected upon and as an integral part of the
building, may be erected or extended above the height limit of the district;
provided that any such building shall set back from the vertical plane of the
permitted building line one foot horizontally for each two feet of extra
height.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.113 ALLOWANCES FOR TERRACES.
   On a lot where terraces exist, the height of the building located thereon
may be increased above the height limitations of the district a distance equal
to the height of the terrace above the curb, provided that the depth of the
front yard be not less than the height of the terrace above the curb.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
APPLICATION OF AREA REGULATIONS
§ 152.130 GENERAL.
   (A)   No yard, court or other open space, provided about any building for
the purpose of complying with this chapter, shall be considered as a yard,
court, or other open space for another building.
   (B)   In measuring the width and depth of the yards prescribed herein, a
cornice projecting not more than 30 inches, or a fence, shall not be held to
reduce such required dimensions.
   (C)   A porch may be erected in a front yard or rear yard, provided that it
be not closer to an adjoining property line than the required width of the side
yard.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.131 FRONT YARDS
   (A)   In any residence district where 40% or more of the property fronting
upon one side of a street between two intersecting streets, and located in such
district, has been improved with buildings at the time of the passage of this
chapter, and a front yard of greater depth than the minimum or of less depth
than the minimum, required by the schedule of height and area regulation, has
been provided for the majority of such buildings, such minimum may be
disregarded; but no building hereafter erected or altered in such residence
district between the existing buildings and the street corner shall be placed
nearer to the street than the minimum prescribed in this chapter of the average
distance already established by the buildings already erected, whichever is
greater; but the minimum depth of front yard for a dwelling on a lot between
two adjoining lots, on each of which a building exists at the time of the
passage of the chapter, shall be the average of the depths of front yards
observed by such buildings.
Where less than 40% of such property has been improved with buildings, or where
dwellings do not front upon a street, the minimum depth of front yard shall be
as required by the schedule of height and area regulations.
   (B)   For a corner lot in a 30-foot or 40-foot height and area district, the
minimum depth of yard along either frontage shall be the depth of yard which is
required along the same street for the adjoining lot; provided that nothing in
this provision shall be so interpreted as to reduce the buildable width of a
corner lot of record at the time of passage of this chapter to less than 25
feet; or, in a residence district, to require more than one yard adjacent to
the street lines in excess of 25 feet in depth (or width); or, in a business
district, to require a yard along either frontage to be more than 15 feet in
depth (or width).
   (C)   When a dwelling in a 100-foot district fronts on an alley the front
line of such dwelling shall be at least 15 feet from the center of such alley.
   (D)   In a business district located within a height and area district where
front yards are required, the depth of front yard need not exceed that required
by this subchapter for buildings in an adjoining residence district and located
in the same block and fronting on the same street.
   (E)   In a 40-foot district, where all the lots fronting on one side of a
street between two intersecting streets are within a business district and at
least 20% of such lots are improved with commercial buildings at the time of
the passage of this chapter, a front yard greater in depth than the average
distance already established by such existing commercial buildings shall not be
required.
   (F)   In a 40-foot district, where part of the lots fronting on one side of
a street between two intersecting streets are within a business district and
part within a residence district, a front yard provided for a lot in such
business district need not exceed the least depth already established by an
existing building which fronts on the same street as the lot in question and is
located between said lot and the adjacent residence district in the same block.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.132 SIDE YARDS.
   (A)   The width of a side yard shall be taken as the least distance from any
part of, or point on, the building to the adjacent side line of the lot.
   (B)   In any district other than a residence district, a building other than
a dwelling shall not require a side yard except when bordering on a residence
district, in which case a side yard shall be provided adjacent to such district
and equal in width to that required therein.
   (C)   The width of any side yard, if one is provided, whether or not one be
required by the schedule of height and area regulations, shall not be less than
ten feet.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.133 REAR YARDS.
   (A)   The depth required by the schedule of height and area regulations for
rear yards shall be the depth exclusive of any portion used for accessory
buildings.
   (B)   In computing the depth of rear yard for any building where such yard
opens into an alley, one-half the width of such alley may be considered as a
portion of the yard.
   (C)   In measuring the depth of rear yards, in cases where the rear lot line
is not parallel with the street line, average dimensions may be used.
   (D)   In a business district located within a 50-foot height and area
district, a building used in whole or in part as a dwelling shall require a
rear yard when bordering on a residence district, in which case a rear yard at
least 15 feet in depth shall be required adjacent to such district.
   (E)   In any residence district, now dwelling shall be so located on a lot
that the rear thereof faces a street line unless such dwelling be located 30
feet or more from such street line.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.134 COURTS.
   (A)   Except as herein prescribed, an outer court is not required in any
district, but if provided, its width shall be not less than ten feet, nor less
than one-fourth of its length nor less than two inches for each foot of height
of such court measured from the bottom thereof to the top of the highest wall
abutting it; except that, in determining the width of an outer court adjoining
a side yard, the width of such yard may be counted.
   (B)   Except as herein prescribed, in inner court is required, but if
provided its width shall be not less than ten feet nor less than three inches
for each foot of the height of such court measured from the bottom thereof to
the top of the highest wall abutting it.
   (C)   In any business district or industrial district, when a portion of the
building above the ground floor, but not the ground floor itself, is used as a
dwelling, an outer court in the rear thereof shall be provided for the stories
used for residence purposes. Such court shall be open and unobstructed for the
full width of the lot and at least 15 feet in depth.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.135 LOT AREA PER FAMILY.
   (A)   Nothing in the area requirements of this chapter, relating to lot area
per family, shall be held to prohibit the erection of a one-family dwelling
upon a lot, the area of which is less than that prescribed as the lot area per
family, provided that such lot at the time of the passage of this chapter, was
held under a separate ownership from the adjoining lots; or provided that, at
the time of the passage of this chapter, such lot is shown to be a separate and
distinct numbered lot, by a plan of lots which has been recorded and which
depicts streets and alleys which have been legally dedicated to the public use.
   (B)   In any district, the minimum lot area per family required under the
schedule of height and area regulations may be reduced 10% for a corner lot.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.136 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In any residence district, any accessory building shall be at least
ten feet from an adjoining rear alley except garages, which shall not be less
than ten feet from the property line of the adjoining alley.
   (B)   In an R-1, R-2 or R-3 Residence District, no accessory building shall
be less than ten feet from any lot line and no closer to the street than
existing adjacent structure.
   (C)   In an R-l, R-2 or R-3 Residence District, accessory buildings on a
corner lot, the rear line of which, is the side line of another lot shall not
be closer to the side street than the depth of front yard required in the
district in which said adjoining lot is situated. Such accessory building shall
also be at least ten feet from said common lot line.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
WALLS AND FENCES
§ 152.150 WALL AND FENCE HEIGHT MEASUREMENT.
   All proposed walls and fences shall comply with the requirements of this
section. Wall and fence height measurement shall be as follows:
   (A)   Measured from unaltered existing grade. The height of all walls and
fences shall be measured from the existing grade as it existed on the date of
passage. The height of all walls and fences shall be measured from the existing
grade to the highest point of the wall or fence in order to prevent the
artificial raising of the grade in order to allow for a higher wall or fence.
Where the existing grade changes the fence height shall change with the grade.
   (B)   Measured in a continuum. The height shall be measured in a continuum
at each point along the wall or fence, excluding posts and/or decorative post
caps not to exceed 4 inches above the applicable height limit.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.151 HEIGHT LIMITS FOR WALLS AND FENCES.
   (A)   Walls and fences adjacent to intersections, all districts. All walls
and fences adjacent to a street intersection must comply with a 20 foot
visibility triangle, measured as 20 feet linearly along the property lines
parallel to the public right-of-way. Wall and fence height in the visibility
triangle shall not exceed the height of 36 inches above the center grade of the
adjacent street.
   (B)   R-l, R-2, and R-3 Districts.
      (1)   Front yard. Wall and fence height in the front yard shall not
exceed the height of 42 inches unless it meets the following requirements: A
fence or wall may only be erected to the maximum height of 54 inches if the
wall or fence consists of open spaces distributed uniformly along its surface,
with at least a 50/50 ratio of open to closed area, or minimally above a height
of 42 inches, so that vision through the fence is not materially obstructed
from any angle so as to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic on adjacent
streets or public ways.
      (2)   Within the limits of the secondary front yard.
         (a)   No solid wall or fence in the secondary front yard shall exceed
the height of 42 inches unless all of the following conditions are met, in
which case the wall or fence shall not exceed the height of 78 inches:
            1.   The fence is set back a minimum of ten feet from the property
line.
            2.   The area between the public right-of-way and the fence shall
be landscaped as follows:
               a.   Properly maintained turf, shrubs, shredded mulch, stone or
groundcover plants shall be required between the wall or fence and right-of-way
line. Wildflowers and weeds are not acceptable groundcover plants.
               b.   Trees or shrubs shall not extend into any portion of the
public right-of-way or in any way intrude into the 20-foot visibility triangle.
         (b)   No wall or fence shall exceed the height of 42 inches unless all
of the following conditions are met, in which case the wall or fence shall not
exceed the height of 54 inches: A fence or wall may be erected to the maximum
height of 54 inches if the wall or fence consists of open spaces distributed
uniformly along its surface, with at least a 50/50 ratio of open to closed
area, or minimally above a height of 42 inches.
      (3)   Within the limits of the side and rear yard. Walls and fences may
be erected to the height of 78 inches above grade, provided the wall or fence
is five feet from a public right-of-way. Walls and fences within five feet of a
right-of-way shall conform to the requirements of the secondary front yard
requirements and in no case shall a wall or fence encroach upon the 20-foot
visibility triangle as defined in division §
152.005. No wall or fence shall exceed the height of 78 inches above grade
unless the following requirements are met:
         (a)   All abutting property owners submit a written statement that
they do not object to the plan.
         (b)   The elevation of the subject property is generally one or more
feet lower in elevation than abutting properties, or the health and safety of
the owner/occupant of the subject property is endangered by uses on any
abutting property.
   (C)   B-1, B-2, I-1 Districts.
      (1)   Properties in B-1, B-2 and I-1 districts that are primarily
residential in usage shall follow the proscribed guidelines of R-1, R-2 and R-
3 districts.
      (2)   Wall and fence height along a street frontage shall not exceed the
height of 42 inches unless it meets the following requirements:
         (a)   Street frontage in front of structure: A fence or wall may be
erected to the maximum height of 54 inches if the wall or fence consists of
open spaces distributed uniformly along its surface, with at least a 50/50
ratio of open to closed area, or minimally above a height of 42 inches, so that
vision through the fence is not materially obstructed from any angle so as to
obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic on adjacent streets or public ways.
         (b)   A wall or fence not located in front of a structure, but along a
street frontage (such as located in front of a parking lot), shall not exceed a
maximum height of 78 inches.
      (3)   Within the limits of the side and rear yard, walls and fences may
be erected to the height of 102 inches above grade, provided the wall or fence
is five feet from a public right-of-way. Walls and fences within five feet of a
right-of-way shall conform to the requirements of the secondary front yard
requirements and in no case shall a wall or fence encroach upon the 20 foot
visibility triangle as defined in §
152.005. No wall or fence shall exceed the height of 102 inches above grade
unless the following requirements are met:
         (a)   All abutting property owners submit a written statement that
they do not object to the plan; and
         (b)   The elevation of the subject property is generally one or more
feet lower in elevation than abutting properties, or the health and safety of
the owner/occupant of the subject property is endangered by uses on any
abutting property.
      (4)   When abutting a residential zoning district (R-1, R-2, R-3), the
minimum height for a wall or fence shall be equivalent to the maximum height of
a wall or fence as given in the standards for the abutting residential zoning
district.
      (5)   Refuse containment and mechanical equipment: Trash containers,
mechanical equipment, loading docks, loading facilities and outdoor storage as
a conditional use shall be located in the side or rear yard and be screened
from view. Mechanical equipment shall be setback a minimum of three feet from
the property line.
         (a)   All trash dumpsters, trash pads, loading, building service, and
outside storage areas shall be screened from residential uses and public
streets. Such screening may be achieved by using a minimum 72 inch high,
completely opaque fence or wall. Height of screen shall be measured from the
grade of the nearest street.
         (b)   All dumpster enclosures require approval from City Supervisor to
ensure clearances and orientation allow for servicing of the dumpster.
         (c)   The City Supervisor shall have discretion to modify these
requirements on a case by case basis if existing circumstances prevent
compliance.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.153 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dead space. No property owner shall erect or allow to be erected any
fence or wall that would create a dead space of less than two feet between any
existing fence, wall or structure.
   (B)   All districts.
      (1)   Front yard and secondary front yard. Walls and fences shall be set
back a minimum of 24 inches from the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Side yard. Walls and fences shall be set back a minimum of 24
inches from the property line.
      (3)   Rear yard. Walls and fences must be set back 24 inches from the
property line, provided that the rear property line does not face a public
street or right-of-way. If the rear property line faces a public street or
right-of-way, setback is determined by §
152.021. Within the limits of the front, side and rear yard, a fence may be
built to the property line if all abutting property owners submit a written
statement that they do not object to the plan. Maintenance and upkeep of a
fence built to the property line is the responsibility of the property owner
who erects the fence.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.154 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pools. For the purpose of this chapter, “pool” means any in-ground or
above-ground swimming pool, pond or water feature.
      (1)   A fence must enclose any pool that is 24 inches or more in depth.
      (2)   The fence must be located at least four feet from the pool, be non-
climbable and at least four feet in height, with no openings that would allow
the passage for a four inch diameter sphere.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that the
fence is constructed to prohibit unauthorized access to the pool.
      (4)   The supportive walls of an above-ground pool may function as an
approved barrier if it is durable, solid, non-climbable, and at least three
feet high. The wall of the pool must not be within four feet of any other wall,
tree, deck, fence or other climbable object. Ladders, stairs or other means of
accessing the pool must be removed or secured to prevent access when the pool
is not in use.
      (5)   Setback requirements:
         (a)   Five feet from the edge of the pool water to any side or rear
property line; and
         (b)   Front setbacks shall conform to the front minimum building
setback for the zoning district in which the pool is located setbacks are
measured from the edge of the pool water to a front property line
   (B)   Fence orientation. Fencing shall be constructed with the structural
members or framing facing inward toward the property.
   (C)   Underground utilities. Property owners shall be responsible for
locating all underground utilities prior to construction by calling Miss
Utility of WV (811).
   (D)   Easements and right-of-ways. Walls and fences shall not be placed over
any established easements or right-of-ways.
   (E)   Surveys. It is strongly recommended that prior to construction of a
wall or fence, the owner obtain a survey of the property to ensure that the
wall or fence will be located within property boundaries. The issuance of a
building permit does not constitute verification that the wall or fence will be
located within the property lines and the city shall bear no responsibility if
the wall or fence is improperly located on adjacent property.
   (F)   Permit required. No property owner shall construct or allow to be
constructed or place any wall or fence without first obtaining a building
permit from the city. Permit application shall include a sketch of site plan
with a list of materials.
   (G)   Specifically prohibited. No fence in any district shall be permitted
to utilize barbed wire, razor wire or concertina wire or carry electric
current.
   (H)   Material requirements.
      (1)   Walls and fences shall be constructed from durable materials
appropriate to the purpose. Property owners shall ensure that any new or
existing fence is structurally sound and properly maintained. Suitable
materials include:
         (a)   Commercially available wood, vinyl or composite fencing panels;
         (b)   Decorative chain-link fencing (vinyl coated). Regular uncoated
chain link fencing may only be used within the limits of the side or rear yard;
         (c)   Decorative masonry block, brick or stone. Regular CMU block must
be finished with stucco, brick or cultured stone;
         (d)   Groomed hedges;
         (e)   Wrought iron or aluminum; and
         (f)   Commercially available split-rail fencing.
      (2)   Materials not specifically intended for the construction of a fence
or walls are prohibited. Such materials include:
         (a)   Scrap wood, pallets, logs;
         (b)   Metal panels, extrusions or forgings;
         (c)   Agricultural materials including barbed wire, razor wire, cattle
or livestock panels, t-posts, and the like; and
         (d)   Any other material that is not intended for the use as a wall or
fence.
   (I)   Kennels. Any kennel, dog run or other animal containment structure is
to be located in the side or rear yard area. The height, setback and
composition of said structure shall conform to the height, setback and
composition requirements of any other wall or fence.
   (J)   Prohibited as primary structure. Fences are only permitted as an
accessory structure with permitted uses and may not be placed on a stand-alone
vacant lot.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.155 TEMPORARY ENCLOSURES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Temporary walls and fences. Temporary walls or fences may be permitted
for reasons of crowd control, safety, construction or security. Said temporary
walls or fences shall not be permitted for a duration exceeding two weeks
without a specific waiver from the common council of the city and all temporary
walls and fences shall first require the obtaining of a permit from the city.
   (B)   Temporary structures. Temporary structures such as construction
trailers, leased storage pods, shipping containers, etc. may be permitted for
reasons of construction or renovation. Application for permit for said
structures must include an estimated date for removal of temporary structure
(s).
   (C)   Temporary structures does not include manufactured sheds or accessory
buildings that are built on skids. (See § 152.136).
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.156 FENCES BUILT PRIOR TO PASSAGE OF CHAPTER.
   Any fence built prior to passage of this chapter is not required to be
brought into compliance with the articles of this chapter unless upgrades or
repairs are required to existing fence in excess of either 50% of total value
of fence, or 50% of total area of fence. The City Supervisor will make
determination whether repairs or upgrades exceed the 50% threshold. If
threshold is met or exceeded, fence must be brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.170 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.171 PLATS
   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plat in
duplicate, drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of each lot to be built
upon, the size and location of each building to be erected upon each lot, and
such other information as may be necessary to enable the Mayor to determine
that the proposed building and use of land will conform to the provisions of
this chapter. A record of such applications and plats shall be kept in the
office of the Mayor.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.172 BUILDING PERMIT; CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP
   (A)   No excavation for foundation, nor the erection, construction or
structural alteration of any buildings or part of a building, or occupancy of
streets or alleys with building materials or temporary buildings for
construction purposes shall be undertaken until a permit therefore shall have
been issued by the Mayor. No such permit shall be issued before the application
has been made for a building permit.
   (B)   No vacant land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter
erected, structurally altered or changed in use shall be used or changed in use
until a building permit shall have been issued by the Mayor.
   (C)   A building permit for the use or occupancy of vacant land, or for a
change in the use of land, or of an existing building, shall be applied for and
issued before any such land shall be occupied or used, or such land or building
changed in use, and such permit shall be issued within ten days after
application has been made, provided that such proposed use is in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.173 INTERPRETATION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of public
health, safety or general welfare. Where this chapter imposes greater
restrictions upon the use of a building or land or upon the height, bulk or
size of a building or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required
by other ordinances, rules, regulations or permits, or by easements, covenants,
or agreements impose greater restrictions upon the use of a building or land,
or upon the height, bulk or size of a building, or require larger open spaces
than are required under the regulations of this chapter, such provisions shall
govern.
   (B)   All buildings for which permits have been obtained and the
construction of which pursuant to a permit issued prior to the passage of this
chapter, must be completed and used in accordance with the plans for which said
permit was granted. No occupancy of an unfinished structure will be permitted.
   (C)   All permits for buildings issued within 60 days prior to the passage
of this chapter are hereby declared void, provided that such building or its
use does not conform to the provisions of this chapter; if, at the time of the
passage of this chapter:
      (1)   No substantial construction has been made; or
      (2)   No contract or contracts have been let pursuant to said permit.
   (D)   If, after the issuance of a permit, the operations authorized
thereunder are not commenced with six months after the date of the permit, of
if, after the commencement of operations, the work is discontinued for a period
of six months, such permit shall be void; work may not again be commence until
a new permit has been issued as for the original work, and building materials
and equipment on the ground shall be removed or stored according to the
requirements of the Mayor.
   (E)   The Mayor may issue a permit for the use of land or the erection or
use of a building, such as real estate office of a contractor’s office, or
storage yard, for commercial or industrial purposes in a residential district,
in cases where such use is incidental and reasonably necessary for the
development of the district for residential purposes, and where the proposed
use is clearly of a temporary nature, to be abandoned as the adjacent area
become occupied for residential purposes. Any permit so authorized shall be
only for such limited period of time as the Mayor shall determine is
reasonable, considering the character of the district in question, and in no
case, for a period of more than one year.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020) Penalty, see §
152.999
CHANGE AND AMENDMENTS
§ 152.185 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or change
the rules and regulations and districts fixed by this chapter.
   (B)   Petitions, duly signed, may be presented to the recorder of the
municipality requesting an amendment, supplement or change of the rules and
regulations and districts of the zoning chapter by:
      (1)   The Planning Commission; or
      (2)   The owners of 50% or more of the real property area to which the
petition relates.
   (C)   Amendments, supplements or changes or the rules and regulation and
districts of the zoning chapter shall be considered as amendments to this
chapter. Any proposed ordinance for the amendment, supplement, change or repeal
of this chapter not originating upon petition of the Planning Commission shall
be referred to the Planning Commission for consideration and report before any
final action is taken by the City Council. Prior to the submission to the City
Council of a Planning Commission petition or a report on a proposed ordinance
referred to it for an amendment, supplement, change or appeal or this zoning
chapter, the Planning Commission shall give notice and hold a public hearing
upon the proposed amendment, supplement, change or appeal of the zoning
chapter, with such notice being given at least 15 or more days prior to the
date set for such hearing by causing a Class I legal advertisement to be
published in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 59, Article
3.
   (D)   City Council shall take final action upon such proposed amendment,
supplement or change within 45 days after filing of petition for same with the
Town Recorder; and if council shall fail to take action upon such petition
within said time the petition shall be deemed to have been rejected.
   (E)   Any changes hereafter made under the provisions of this chapter which
pertains only to changes in the zone map or district boundaries, may be done by
order of Council.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 152.200 GENERAL.
   The City Council shall create and maintain a Board of Zoning Appeals
consisting of five members to be appointed by the City Council.
   (A)   The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be individuals who
are freeholders and residents of the municipality and at least three-fifths of
such members must have been residents of the municipality for at least three
years preceding the time of their appointment. No member of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall be a member of the Planning Commission nor shall any member hold
other elective or appointive office in the municipal or county government.
Members of the Board shall be compensated at a rate of $50 per meeting
attended, up to seven meetings per year, and shall be reimbursed for all
reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the performance of their
official duties.
   (B)   Upon the creation of a Board of Zoning Appeals, the members shall be
appointed for the following terms: one for a term of one-year; two for a term
of two years; and two for a term of three years. The term shall expire on
January 1 of the first, second, and third year, respectively, following their
appointment. Thereafter, as their terms expire, each new appointment shall be
for a term of three years.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs, by resignation or otherwise, among the members of
the Board of Zoning Appeals, the governing body of the municipality or the
county court, as the case may be, shall appoint a member for the unexpired
term.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.201 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and
at such times as the Board may determine. The chairperson, or in his or her
absence the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses.
   (B)   All meetings shall be open to the public. The Board shall adopt its
own rules of procedure and shall keep a record of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact; and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof
and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board shall be
filed immediately in the office of the Board and become a public record.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.202 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal taken from any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by an administrative official or Board charged with the enforcement of
this chapter shall be filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals. The appeal shall
specify the grounds thereof and shall be filled within such time and in such
form as may be prescribed by the Board by general rule and regulation. The
administrative official or Board from whom or which the appeal is taken shall,
upon request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, transmit to it all documents,
plans and papers constituting the record of the action from which an appeal was
taken.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of an appeal. Public notice of the hearing shall be given in the manner
specified in W. Va. Code Chapter 8, Section 18, Article 24, and due notice
shall be given additionally to the interested parties. The Board of Zoning
Appeals may require the party taking the appeal to assume the cost of public
notice and due notice to interested parties. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person by agent or by attorney at law admitted to practice in this
state.
   (C)   When an appeal has been taken and filed with the Board of Zoning
Appeals, all proceedings and work on the premises in question shall be stayed
unless the official or Board from whom or which the appeal was taken shall
certify to the Board of Zoning Appeals that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. If such
certificate be filed, proceedings or work on the premises shall not be stayed
except by a restraining order which may be granted by the circuit court of the
county in which the premises affected are located, upon application therefore,
on notice to the official or Board from whom or which the appeal is taken and
the owner of the premises affected and on due cause shown.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.203 POWERS, AUTHORITY AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, after public hearing, may reverse, affirm
or modify the enforcement order by city officials of zoning appealed to them.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may hear and decide on requests for
conditional uses of property after a favorable report is made by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may decide on variances to the zoning
chapter but must first prepare findings and find:
      (1)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property or to the intended use that do not apply
general to the other property of class use in the same vicinity and district.
      (2)   That such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other property in the same
vicinity but which is denied to the property in question.
      (3)   That the granting of such variance will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare of injurious to the property or improvements
in such vicinity in which the property is located.
      (4)   That the granting of such variance will not alter the land use
characteristics of the vicinity and diminish the marketable value of adjacent
land and improvements or increase the congestion in the public streets.
      (5)   In granting variances, the Board of Appeals may impose such
reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as it may deem necessary
and proper to carry out the purpose of the chapter.
      (6)   Where the street layout actually on the ground, or as recorded,
differs from the street layout as shown on the zone map the Board shall
interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter and the map for the particular section or district in question.
      (7)   If, after a permit has been authorized by the Board, such permit is
not lifted from the office of the Mayor within a period of six months from the
date of authorization, then such authorization shall be null and void and no
permit shall be issued thereunder.
   (D)   In the exercise of its powers, the Board may, among other variances,
modifications and interpretations, authorize a permit to be issued:
      (1)   For a sand, gravel or clay pit, stone quarry or mine, together with
the necessary accessory buildings, in a zone restricted against such use by
this chapter, for such period or under such conditions as are reasonable,
considering the character of the zone in question.
      (2)   For a reasonable extension of the regulations of either zone over a
lot divided by a zone boundary line, when all parts of such lot are held under
the same ownership at the time of the passing of this chapter.
      (3)   For such reasonable variation of the regulations herein set forth
as the Board may deem necessary to the appropriate development of a lot
adjacent to a lot the development of which at the time of passage of this
chapter does not conform to the regulations of this chapter.
      (4)   For a reasonable enlargement of a building existing at the time of
the passage of this chapter and used for trade, business or industry, but
located in a district restricted against such use; or for reasonably necessary
additional buildings for any such use, upon the same lot or plot of ground as
that upon which such existing building and use obtain.
      (5)   For a reasonable extension of a building or use into a more
restricted zone immediately adjacent thereto, but such extension shall not be
for more than 50 feet beyond the boundary line of the zone in which said
building or use is thus authorized.
      (6)   For such variation of the area requirements of this chapter as the
Board may deem necessary to secure an appropriate improvement of a lot of such
area, size or shape that it cannot be reasonably improved without modification
of the strict application of the provisions of this chapter; provided that such
lot, at the time of the passage of this chapter either was held under a
separate ownership from the adjoining lots, or was shown on a recorded plat to
be a separate and distinct numbered lot.
      (7)   For the reconstruction of a building in a zone restricted against
its use, when such building has been partially destroyed by fire or other
calamity, provided that the application for permit for such reconstruction be
made within one year of the date of such fire or calamity.
      (8)   For redemption of a non-conforming use of a building in a
residential zone, when such non-conforming use of the building has been
discontinued for a period exceeding one year, provided that such use has not
been followed by a more restricted use, and that it is not reasonably
practicable to utilize the lot upon which such building is located for a
conforming use.
      (9)   For the erection or use of a building in any zone by a public
service corporations, when such erection or use is reasonable necessary for the
service of the public, and not unreasonably detrimental to the character of the
development.
      (10)   For a hospital in a R-1 Residence Zone, where on account of ample
area of site and adequate open spaces on all sides of the proposed building,
the residential character of the neighborhood will not be affected.
      (11)   For a municipal utility building in any zone.
      (12)   For a community garage, in a residence zone, located within 200
feet of an existing dwelling, or for a public garage in a business zone, within
200 feet of the entrance to a school, church, hospital, playground or public
library. In passing upon such appeal, the Board shall give weight to the
consent to such variation from the provisions of this chapter, as shown by the
signatures of the owners in interest and number of 60% of all the property
within 200 feet of the proposed building.
      (13)   For a detached private garage built in a terrace on the front of a
lot in a residence zone where the topographical conditions are such as to make
it impracticable to construct such garage as required.
      (14)   For a front yard of less depth than that required by this chapter
where topography or existing development makes strict compliance unreasonable
or substantially impossible.
      (15)   For an arrangement and size of yards varying from the specified in
the schedule of height and area regulations in case of a group of buildings on
a parcel of land, forming in effect a multiple dwelling made up of separate
units, provided that the depth of yard adjacent to a street line and the
required lot area per family as specified in this chapter shall be complied
within the location of said buildings.
      (16)   For reasonable variation of the height and area regulations herein
set forth as the Board may deem necessary for the suitable use of a telephone
exchange building located in a residence zone; where the Board determines such
variation is reasonably necessary for the public convenience or welfare,
harmonious to the purposes of the zone, and not unreasonably injurious to the
property of the zone, in which the building is or is to be located.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.220 GENERAL.
   The city does hereby create a Planning Commission for the city to promote
the orderly development of its jurisdiction. Said Commission shall serve in an
advisory capacity to the governing body of the city and shall have certain
regulatory powers over land planning. The Planning Commission, along with the
governing body of this city, shall have the authority to carry out the
objectives and overall purposes of the W. Va. Code §§ 8A-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.221 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have seven members. Each member must be:
      (1)   A resident of the municipality; and
      (2)   Qualified by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to the
development of the municipality.
   (B)   At least three-fifths of all of the members must have been residents
of the municipality for at least three years prior to nomination or appointment
and confirmation.
   (C)   The members of the Planning Commission must fairly represent different
areas of interest, knowledge and expertise, including, but not limited to,
business, industry, labor, government and other relevant disciplines. Two
members must be a member of the municipal governing body (being one in the same
as administrative department) or a designee. One appointment represents the
governing body and the other represents the administrative department. The term
of membership for these two members is the same as their term of office.
   (D)   Should there be members of the community that may at times appear
before the Planning Commission and do have experience and expertise that would
be advantageous to the Commission, such act shall not be a conflict of interest
in the appointment to the Commission. If such person is appointed, this member
must recuse himself or herself from any vote, discussion, participation or
other activity regarding the conflicting issue.
   (E)   The remaining members of the Planning Commission first selected shall
serve respectively for terms of one year, two years and three years, divided
equally or as nearly equally as possible between these terms. Thereafter,
members shall serve three-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term and made in the same manner as original selections were made.
   (F)   The members of the Planning Commission shall be compensated at a rate
of $50 per meeting attended, up to 14 meetings per year, and shall be
reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred in the
performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Nominations for the Planning Commission membership shall be made and
confirmed by the governing body.
   (H)   Should any member of the Commission fail to attend meetings, neglect
his or her duties to the Commission or commit malfeasance of his or her
appointment, the Commission shall report such actions to the governing body.
Thereafter, the governing body shall provide written notice of such alleged
actions to the affected member and advise that such actions may result in the
member’s removal from the Commission. Should the member object, he or she shall
have an opportunity to address the governing body on the issues prior to any
final decision being made by the governing body.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.222 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall meet at least quarterly and may meet
more frequently at the request of the president or by two or more members.
   (B)   Notice for a special meeting must be in writing, include the date,
time and place of the special meeting, and be sent to all members at least two
days prior to the special meeting.
   (C)   Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the date, time
and place of the special meeting were set in a regular meeting.
   (D)   The Planning Commission must have quorum to conduct a meeting. A
majority of the members of a Planning Commission is a quorum. No action of a
Planning Commission is official unless authorized by a majority of the members
present at a regular or properly called special meeting.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.223 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting each year, the Planning Commission shall elect
from its members a President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have
the power and authority to act as President of the Planning Commission during
the absence or disability of the President.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.224 GOVERNING BODY’S DUTIES.
   The city governing body shall provide the Planning Commission with:
   (A)   Suitable location for holding of meetings and the preservation of
plans, maps documents and accounts; and
   (B)   Appropriate money to defray the reasonable expenses of the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission is authorized to accept gifts, funds and
donations which will be deposited with the appropriate governing body in a
special non-reverting Planning Commission fund to be available for expenditures
by the Planning Commission for the purpose designated by the donor.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.225 POWER AND DUTIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission has the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Exercise general supervision for the administration of the affairs of
the Commission;
   (B)   Prescribe rules and regulations pertaining to administration,
investigations and hearings, provided, that the rules and regulations are
adopted by the governing body;
   (C)   Supervise the fiscal affairs and responsibilities of the Commission;
   (D)   With consent from the governing body, hire employees necessary to
carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Planning Commission, provided
that the governing body sets the salaries;
   (E)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all Planning Commission
proceedings;
   (F)   Record and fill all bonds and contract;
   (G)   Take responsibility for the custody and preservation of all papers and
documents of the Planning Commission;
   (H)   Make recommendations to the governing body concerning planning;
   (I)   Make an annual report to the governing body concerning the operation
of the Planning Commission and the status of planning within its jurisdiction;
   (J)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports, ordinances and other material
relating to the activities authorized under this chapter;
   (K)   Invoke any legal, equitable or special remedy for the enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter, rule and regulation or any action taken
thereunder;
   (L)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the governing body;
   (M)   Delegate limited powers to a committee composed of one or more members
of the Commission; and
   (N)   Contract for special or temporary services and professional counsel
with the approval of the governing body.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall for each violation, upon conviction thereof, pay a penalty of
not less than ten dollars nor more than $300, with costs recoverable before the
Mayor. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 21, passed 1-14-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   LEASES
      
III.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting Monongahela Power Company a franchise to
15       7-11-1972   construct, operate and maintain an electric system for a
                     term of 50 years.
                     Granting Cable Equities of the Virginias LTD., d/b/
48       10-25-1988  a Mountain State Cable, the right to operate a cable
                     television system for a period of 15 years.
                    
 
TABLE II: LEASES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
54       7-9-1991    Approval of lease of waterworks property.
                    
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        7-9-2018    Acquisition agreement by the city, the City Waterworks
                     Board and Preston County Public Service District No. 2.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W. Va. Code Section Code Section
W. Va. Code Section             Code Section
2-2-3                           10.02
2-2-4                           10.02
2-2-5                           10.02
2-2-7                           10.02
2-2-8                           10.06
2-2-9                           10.06
2-2-10(a)                       10.02
2-2-10(b)                       10.02
2-2-10(c)                       10.02
2-2-10(d)                       10.02
2-2-10(p)                       10.02
2-2-10(q)                       10.02
2-2-10(r)                       10.02
2-2-10(z)                       10.04
2-2-10                          10.02
2-2-12                          10.04
5-15-5                          77.08
Art. 5A, § 3A                  72.035
8-1-1                           10.02
8-1-2                           10.02
8-12-5(55)                      10.99
Ch. 8, Art. 5                   33.04
Ch. 8, Art. 10, § 1            35.01,
                                35.03
8-11-1                          10.99,
                                76.99
8-11-4(b)                       10.01
Ch. 8, Art. 12 et seq.          150.67
Ch. 8, Art. 12, §§ 1 to 14    32.07
8-13c                           34.56
8-13C-6                         34.55—
                                34.57
8-13C-7                         34.55
Ch. 8, Art. 13, § 15           34.27
Ch. 8, Art. 16                  32.61
8-16-1 et seq.                  34.08
Ch. 8, Art. 18                  94.04
Ch. 8, Art. 18, §§ 1 through 294.01
Ch. 8, Art. 21 § 13            32.62
Art. 8-24                       75.06
Ch. 8, Art. 24, § 18           152.202
8A-1-1 et seq.                  32.40.
                                152.220
11-9                            34.46,
                                34.58
                                34.46,
11-10                           34.56,
                                34.58
11-10-11C                       34.55
Ch. 11, Art. 12                 110.01
11-12                           110.01
11-13A                          110.01
11-14c                          34.51
                                34.46,
11-15                           34.47,
                                34.51,
                                34.58
                                34.46,
11-15-a                         34.48,
                                34.58
                                34.46,
11-15-b                         34.48,
                                34.58
11-15B-35                       34.54
11-15-3c                        34.51
11-15B-33                       34.55
11-15B-34                       34.50
11-16-4                         110.01
11-16-17                        110.01
Ch. 16, Art. 1                  53.02
16-1-9                          52.015
16-2-15                         91.99
                                32.20,
Ch. 16, Art. 13                 32.24,
                                32.25
16-13A-1                        52.105
16-13A-1 et seq.                52.015
16-13A-7                        52.015
16-13A-8                        52.015
16-13A-9                        52.015,
                                52.016
Ch. 17                          75.06,
                                75.09
17-11A-3                        76.26
17-18-1 et seq.                 34.01
Ch. 17A                         75.01,
                                75.04
17A-1-1(ii)                     76.04
17A-1-1(vv)                     76.04
17A-3-1                         75.01
17A-3-13                        75.02
17A-3-15                        75.03
17A-8-4                         72.014
                                70.02,
17A-10-1                        73.31,
                                75.03
17A-11-1                        72.999
17A-13-1                        76.01
17A-13-1(b)(1)                  76.04
17B-2-1a                        75.06
17B-2-2                         75.06
17B-2-7b                        75.06
17B-4-1                         75.09
17B-4-3                         75.10
17B-4-3(b)                      75.99
17B-4-3(d)                      75.99
Ch. 17C                         73.31
17C-1-1                         70.01
17C-1-2                         70.02
17C-1-3                         70.02
17C-1-4                         70.02
17C-1-5                         70.02
17C-1-5a                        70.02
17C-1-6                         70.02
17C-1-7                         70.02
17C-1-12                        70.02
17C-1-13                        70.02
17C-1-15                        70.02
17C-1-16                        70.02
17C-1-17                        70.02
17C-1-21                        70.02
17C-1-22                        70.02
17C-1-24                        70.02
17C-1-25                        70.02
17C-1-26                        70.02
17C-1-29                        70.02
17C-1-30                        70.02
17C-1-31                        70.02
17C-1-32                        70.02
17C-1-33                        70.02
17C-1-35                        70.02
17C-1-36                        70.02
17C-1-37                        70.02
17C-1-38                        70.02
17C-1-39                        70.02
17C-1-40                        70.02
17C-1-41                        70.02
17C-1-42                        70.02
17C-1-43                        70.02
17C-1-44                        70.02
17C-1-45                        70.02
17C-1-46                        70.02
17C-1-47                        70.02
17C-1-48                        70.02
17C-1-49                        70.02
17C-1-50                        70.02
17C-1-51                        70.02
17C-1-52                        70.02
17C-1-53                        70.02
17C-1-54                        70.02
17C-1-55                        70.02
17C-1-60                        70.02
17C-1-62                        70.02
17C-1-64                        70.02
17C-1-65                        70.02
17C-1-66                        70.02
17C-2-1                         70.31
17C-2-3(c)                      70.32
17C-2-4                         70.33
17C-2-5                         70.34
17C-2-6                         70.35
17C-3-4                         71.01
17C-3-4a                        71.02
17C-3-4b                        71.07
17C-3-5                         71.03
17C-3-6                         71.04
17C-3-7                         71.05
17C-3-8                         71.06
17C-3-9                         71.07
17C-4-1                         70.99
17C-4-6                         70.15
17C-4-8                         70.16
17C-4-12                        70.17
17C-6                           72.050
17C-6-1                         72.050
17C-6-3a(a)                     72.051
17C-6-4                         72.051
17C-6-5                         72.051
17C-6-8                         72.999
17C-6-8(a)                      72.053
17C-7-3                         72.067
17C-7-4                         72.068
17C-7-5                         72.069
17C-7-6                         72.070
17C-7-7                         72.071
17C-7-8(b)                      72.072
17C-7-8(c)                      72.072
17C-7-10                        72.074
17C-7-11                        72.075
17C-7-12                        72.076
17C-8-1                         72.090
17C-8-2                         72.091
17C-8-3                         72.092
17C-8-5                         72.094
17C-8-6                         72.014,
                                72.095
17C-8-7                         72.110
17C-8-8                         72.111
17C-8-9                         72.112
17C-8-10                        72.113
17C-9-1                         72.125
17C-9-2                         72.126,
                                75.04
17C-9-3                         72.127,
                                75.05
17C-9-4                         72.128
17C-9-5                         72.129
17C-9-6                         72.999
17C-10-1(a)                     77.01
17C-10-2                        77.02
17C-10-3                        77.03
17C-10-4                        77.04
17C-10-5                        77.05
17C-10-6                        77.06
17C-10-7                        77.99
17C-10-8                        77.07
17C-10A-1                       77.09
17C-10A-2                       77.09,
                                77.99
17C-11-1                        76.15
17C-11-2                        76.16
17C-11-3                        76.17
17C-11-4                        76.18
17C-11-5                        76.19
17C-11-6                        76.20
17C-11-7                        76.21
17C-11A-4                       76.26
17C-11A-5                       76.26
17C-11A-6                       76.26,
                                76.42
17C-11A-7                       76.99
17C-12-2                        72.146
17C-12-3                        72.147
17C-12-4                        72.148
17C-12-5                        72.160
17C-12-6                        72.161
17C-12-7                        72.162
17C-12-7a                       76.163
17C-12-8                        72.162,
                                72.163
17C-14-2                        72.002
17C-14-4                        72.003
17C-14-5                        72.004
17C-14-6                        72.005
17C-14-9                        72.006
17C-14-9a                       72.007
17C-14-10                       72.008
17C-14-12                       73.31
17C-15-1                        73.01
17C-15-2                        73.15
17C-15-3                        73.16
17C-15-4                        73.17
17C-15-5                        73.18
17C-15-6                        73.99
17C-15-14                       73.19
17C-15-15                       73.20
17C-15-16                       73.21
17C-15-17                       73.22
17C-15-18                       73.23
17C-15-19                       73.24
17C-15-20                       73.25
17C-15-21                       73.26
17C-15-22                       73.27
17C-15-24                       73.29
17C-15-25                       73.30
17C-15-26                       70.02,
                                73.31
17C-15-26(e)                    72.163
17C-15-27                       73.31
17C-15-31                       73.45
17C-15-32                       73.46
17C-15-33                       73.47
17C-15-35                       73.49
17C-15-36                       73.50
17C-15-36a                      73.60,
                                73.99
17C-15-37                       73.51
17C-15-41                       73.53
17C-15-42                       73.54
17C-15-44                       73.55
17C-15-45                       73.56
17C-15-46                       73.57
17C-15-48                       73.59
17C-15-49                       73.61
Art. 17C-16                     73.58
17C-16-9                        73.58
17C-17                          74.01,
                                74.03
17C-17-2                        74.03
17C-17-3                        74.02
17C-17-4                        74.03
17C-17-5                        74.03
17C-17-6                        74.04
17C-17-7                        74.05
17C-17-11b                      74.03
17C-19-3                        75.30
17C-23                          72.009
17D-2A                          72.021
17D-2A-9                        72.999
17E-1                           75.25
17E-1-3                         75.25
17E-1-4                         75.11,
                                75.26
17E-1-5                         75.27
17E-1-6                         75.27
17E-1-7                         75.28
17E-1-8                         70.02,
                                75.29
17E-1-9(d)                      75.25
17E-1-14                        75.30
17E-1-15                        75.30
17E-1-25                        75.99
17F                             76.01
29-22B-101 et seq.              152.024
30-6-4                          72.009
Ch. 47, Art. 20                 152.024
Ch. 47, Art. 21                 152.024
Ch. 50, Art. 50, § 2           52.039
59-2-1(c)                       76.99
Ch. 59, Art. 3                  32.26,
                                152.185
60-3A-12                        110.01
60-7-2                          91.03
60-7-6                          110.01
60-8-3                          110.01
Ch. 60A                         72.035,
                                134.04
60A-1-101(d)                    90.01
61-8-19                         90.99
61-8-19a                        90.05,
                                90.99
Ch. 62, Art. 11A                72.035
Ch. 62, Art. 11B                72.035
Art. 62-11B                     75.99
Ch. 62, Art. 11B, § 5          72.035
                                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
35       4-12-1966   94.55
                     34.20—
13       4-27-1971   34.29,
                     34.99
15       7-11-1972   TSO I
                     78.25—
18       11-28-1978  78.30,
                     78.99
                     112.01—
19       2-27-1979   112.08,
                     112.99
26       4-27-1982   35.01—
                     35.04
                     94.35—
11       8-23-1983   94.44,
                     94.99
                     151.01—
8        11-8-1983   151.16,
                     151.99
30       7-23-1985   94.01—
                     94.04
48       10-25-1988  TSO I
3        1-24-1989   33.01—
                     33.05
                     110.01,
49       2-26-1991   110.99,
                     111.01,
                     111.99
54       7-9-1991    TSO II
                     150.55—
42       1-28-1992   150.67,
                     150.99
56       8-25-1992   Ch. 79, Sch. I
31       5-24-1994   94.15—
                     94.20
                     90.01—
                     90.15,
1-G      3-12-1996   90.99,
                     93.01—
                     93.09,
                     93.99
                     113.01—
62       11-11-1997  113.06,
                     113.99
30       7-27-1999   94.01—
                     94.04
                     91.01—
-        3-12-2002   91.08,
                     91.99
                     96.01—
-        5-9-2006    96.06,
                     96.99
                     150.15—
47       6-27-2006   150.18,
                     150.99
-        11-14-2006  152.051
                     92.01—
16       4-8-2008    92.08,
                     92.99
                     50.20,
-        11-26-2008  50.21,
                     50.99
-        2-10-2009   32.40—
                     32.45,
                     34.01—
-        2-10-2009   34.08,
                     34.99
-        5-26-2009   53.01—
                     53.13
-        12-11- 2012 51.25—
                     51.36
27       3-24-2015   30.01
52       6-28-2016   150.01
34       7-26-2016   32.20—
                     32.28
                     150.30—
-        10-10-2017  150.40,
                     150.99
                     70.01,
                     70.02,
                     70.15—
                     70.17,
                     70.30—
                     70.35,
                     70.99,
                     71.01—
                     71.08,
                     71.99,
                     72.001—
                     72.023,
                     72.035—
                     72.037,
                     72.050—
                     72.053,
                     72.065—
                     72.076,
                     72.090—
                     72.095,
                     72.110—
                     72.113,
                     72.125—
                     72.130,
-        12-28-2017  72.145—
                     72.148,
                     72.160—
                     72.164,
                     72.999,
                     73.01,
                     73.15—
                     73.31,
                     73.45—
                     73.62,
                     73.99,
                     74.01—
                     74.05,
                     75.01—
                     75.11,
                     75.25—
                     75.30,
                     75.99,
                     76.15—
                     76.26,
                     76.40—
                     76.42,
                     76.99,
                     77.01—
                     77.09,
                     77.99
                     78.01—
9        2-13-2018   78.12,
                     78.99
-        3-13-2018   36.01
                     52.001,
                     52.015—
                     52.018,
                     52.030—
                     52.047,
                     52.060—
                     52.071,
                     52.085—
                     52.088,
25       3-13-2018   52.100,
                     52.115,
                     52.116,
                     52.130,
                     52.145,
                     52.160,
                     52.161,
                     52.175—
                     52.182,
                     52.999
-        3-13-2018   36.01
29       3-27-2018   95.01—
                     95.06
-        7-9-2018    TSO III
                     50.01—
32       7-10-2018   50.08,
                     50.99
17       8-14-2018   32.01—
                     32.08
-        11-27-2018  34.45—
                     34.59
-        - - 2019    51.01—
                     51.13
                     51.25,
-        3-12-2019   51.36,
                     51.55—
                     51.58
27       8-27-2019   30.01
                     152.001—
                     152.005,
                     152.020—
                     152.025,
                     152.040—
                     152.050,
                     152.065,
                     152.080 
                     152.095,
                     152.110—
21       1-14-2020   152.113,
                     152.130—
                     152.136,
                     152.150—
                     152.156,
                     152.170—
                     152.173,
                     152.200—
                     152.203,
                     152.220—
                     152.225,
                     152.999
                     51.25—
-        2-9-2021    51.37,
                     51.55—
                     51.59
-        4-13-2021   76.01—
                     76.04
-        4-13-2021   150.15—
                     150.18
-        4-21-2021   50.07
-        4-27-2021   110.01,
                     112.03
-        5-30-2021   50.07
                     92.01,
                     92.02,
-        1-25-2022   92.04,
                     92.06,
                     92.08
-        5-10-2022   130.01
-        - -2022     150.16
-        11-8-2022   92.01,
                     92.02
-        12-13-2022  51.01—
                     51.13
                     51.25—
-        2-28-2023   51.29,
                     51.36
-        4-11-2023   90.06,
                     90.07
                     51.01—
-        4-23-2024   51.01,
                     51.12
                     51.25—
-        5-28-2024   51.29,
                     51.34,
                     51.36
-        6-11-2024   50.07,
                     50.09
-        5-13-2025   150.01
-        6-10-2025   32.60—
                     32.62
-        7-8-2025    30.02
                    
 
