Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the Town
of Lost Creek. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained in PDF
format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2024,
please contact the Town of Lost Creek.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
Ordinances
Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord_--   3-5-24    Adopting West Virginia State Building Code
Ord_--   10-1-24   Regulation of all terrain vehicles, utility vehicles and
                   other motorized recreational apparatus
                   Amending Building Permit Fees
Ord_--   12-4-24    
                   150.06
                  
                  
                  
                  
 
 
 
TOWN OF LOST CREEK, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. -, passed 3-5-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
(2024)
MAYOR
Dave Oliverio
RECORDER/CLERK
Kathryn Goldsmith
COUNCIL
Joanie Oliverio
Jerry Hebb
Sharon Smith
Greg Foster
Darrick Leeson
TOWN INSPECTOR
Vincent Smith
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Catchlines and headings
   
10.04   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.05   Ordinances repealed
   
10.06   Effect of repeal of ordinance
   
10.07   Effect of revisions
   
10.08   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Powers and duties with respect to ordinances and ordinance procedures
   
10.11   Printed copies certified may be read in evidence
   
10.12   Code copies available in Recorder’s office
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances of the municipality of a general and permanent nature, as
codified and revised herein, are ordained as general ordinances and adopted as
“The Lost Creek Municipal Code,” hereinafter referred to as the “Town Code” or
“this code.”
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Council of the Town of Lost Creek, West
Virginia.
      COUNTY. The County of Harrison, West Virginia.
      FISCAL YEAR. The FISCAL YEAR for the town and all bodies or officers
collecting or disbursing funds shall begin on July 1 and expire with the
expiration of the next following June 30.
      FOLLOWING. The next after.
      MAY. The word MAY is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Lost Creek, West Virginia.
      OATH or SWORN. A solemn affirmation shall be the equivalent to an oath in
all cases unless otherwise expressly provided, and the word OATH shall be
deemed to include an affirmation, and the word SWEAR or SWORN to be complied
with if the person referred to makes solemn affirmation.
      OWNER. As applied to any property, any part owner, joint owner, tenant in
common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the
whole or of a part of such property.
      PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, society, club or
any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual unless restricted
within the context.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Goods and chattels, real and personal, money, credits,
investments and the evidence thereof.
      PRECEDING. The next before.
      PREMISES. When used as applicable to real property, shall include land
and buildings.
      PROPERTY. Real, personal and mixed property.
      REAL PROPERTY, REAL ESTATE, LAND or LANDS. Lands, buildings, tenements
and hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein, except chattel
interests.
      REASONABLE TIME. In all cases where provision is made for an act to be
done or notice to be given within a REASONABLE TIME, it shall be construed to
mean only such time as may be necessary, under the circumstances then and there
existing, for the prompt performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
      SHALL. The word SHALL is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline or, where there is
no curb, the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians. If there is no public area between the
lateral lines of the roadway and the abutting property line, then that area
immediately abutting the street line shall be considered a SIDEWALK AREA.
      SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK. A mark made by a signer or subscriber
who cannot write, such signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the
mark by a witness, who shall write his or her own name near the signer’s or
subscriber’s name.
      STATE. The State of West Virginia.
      STATE CODE. References to the State Code, or W. VA. Code, shall be to the
official West Virginia Code, as amended and currently in effect.
      STREET. An alley, avenue, boulevard, highway, road, lane, viaduct, bridge
and approaches thereto, and all other public thoroughfares in the town, and the
entire width thereof between abutting property lines; also, a sidewalk or
footpath unless the contrary is expressed or unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the intent of the Town Council.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, any person holding a
written or oral lease to or who occupies the whole or part of such building or
land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Lost Creek, West Virginia.
      TOWN CODE or THIS CODE. The code of the Town of Lost Creek, West
Virginia, as amended and currently in effect.
      YEAR. A calendar year. The word YEAR alone shall be equivalent to the
expression YEAR OF OUR LORD.
      WRITING. Includes any form of recorded message comprehensible by ordinary
visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is required or
authorized by this code or other ordinances or resolutions of the town, it
shall be made in writing in the English language unless it is expressly
provided otherwise.
   (B)   Rules of construction. In the construction of this code, the following
rules of construction shall be observed unless it shall be expressly provided
otherwise by any section, ordinance or resolution, unless inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Town Council or unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
      (1)   General interpretation. All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the Town Council may be fully carried out. Words and phrases shall
be taken in their usual sense, but technical words having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
      (2)   Officers, departments and the like. Officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees referred to in this code shall mean officers,
departments, boards, commissions and employees of the town unless the content
clearly indicates otherwise.
      (3)   Authority of officers. Whenever authority is conferred on or an act
is required to be performed by a town officer, such authority may be exercised
or performed, at the instance of such officer, by a deputy, agent or
subordinate unless such authority cannot lawfully be deputed.
      (4)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such joint authority to a
majority of such persons or officers and not to any lesser number.
      (5)   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only may be construed
to include the feminine and neuter as well as the masculine.
      (6)   Number. A word importing the singular number only may be applied to
several persons or things as well as to one person or thing; a word importing
the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well as to
several.
      (7)   Tenses. The present tense includes the past and future tenses; the
future includes the present.
      (8)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, or, if the
last day is Sunday or a holiday, it shall also be excluded, but this provision
shall not be deemed to change any rule of law applicable to bills of exchange
or negotiable instruments; provided, that if time is expressed in hours, the
whole of any Sunday or holiday shall be excluded unless the clear intent of the
Town Council is to the contrary.
§ 10.03 CATCHLINES AND HEADINGS.
   The chapter, subchapter, section and division headings of this code are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents thereof and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles thereof nor as any part thereof; nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such chapters,
subchapters, sections or divisions, including the headings or catchlines, are
amended or reenacted.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of statutes, see W. Va. Code §§ 2-2-10(3) and 2-2-12
§ 10.04 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   Insofar as the provisions of this code are the same as those of ordinances
existing and in force at its effective date, said provisions shall be
considered to be continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.05 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature not contained in this code
are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of said code, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.06 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The repeal provided for in §
10.05 of this chapter shall not affect any offense or act committed or done, or
any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or
accruing before the effective date of this code; nor shall such repeal affect
any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for
the municipality, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of said municipality
or any evidence of said municipality’s indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by said municipality; nor shall it affect any rights or
franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution of the municipality or any
person, firm or corporation; nor shall it affect any prosecution, suit or other
proceeding pending or any judgment rendered on or prior to the effective date
of said code; nor shall it affect any ordinance annexing territory to the
municipality.
   (B)   When any ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed,
the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that
effect.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Effect of repeal or expiration of statutes, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-8
   Repeal of an act repealing a statute, see W. Va. Code § 2-2-9
§ 10.07 EFFECT OF REVISIONS.
   Immediately upon adoption of this code, it shall be reproduced in loose-leaf
form. The governing body, by motion or resolution, shall fix and change from
time to time, as considered necessary, the prices to be charged for copies of
this code and revisions thereto. After the adoption of this code, each general
ordinance shall be adopted as amending, adding or deleting a numbered section
or sections of said code; immediately thereafter, those affected pages of the
code shall be revised to reflect such amended, added or deleted material and
shall be distributed to town officers and employers having copies of said code
and to other persons who have requested and paid for current revisions. Notes
shall be inserted at the end of amended or new sections referring to the date
and number of ordinances making the amendments or adding the new sections, and
such references shall be cumulative if a section is amended more than once in
order that the current copy of this code will contain references to all
ordinances passed since the adoption of the original town code. One copy of
this code as originally adopted and one copy of each amending ordinance
thereafter adopted shall be mailed to the state’s Council of Towns and Cities
immediately upon final passage and adoption.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.08 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(W. Va. Code § 29B-1-1)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see W. Va. Code §§ 29B-1-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town as published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.09 SEVERABILITY.
   Each section of this code, including the codes and ordinances adopted by
reference, is hereby declared to be separable and severable, and the invalidity
of any section, part, paragraph, sentence, phrase or work in this code shall
not affect the validity of any other part of said code, and only any part
declared to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deleted
therefrom.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.10 POWERS AND DUTIES WITH RESPECT TO ORDINANCES AND ORDINANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   To carry into effect the powers and authority conferred upon any
municipality or its governing body by the provisions of this chapter or any
past or future act of the legislature of the state, the governing body has
plenary power and authority to:
      (1)   Make and pass all needful ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts,
resolutions, rules and regulations not contrary to the constitution and laws of
this state; and
      (2)   Prescribe reasonable penalties for violation of its ordinances,
orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions, rules and regulations in the form of fines,
forfeitures and confinement in the county or regional jail or the place of
confinement in the town, if there is one, for a term not exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   The fines, forfeitures and confinement shall be recovered, imposed or
enforced under the judgment of the Mayor or the individual lawfully exercising
the Mayor’s functions, or the Police Court Judge or Municipal Court Judge, if
there is one, and may be suspended upon reasonable conditions as may be imposed
by the Mayor, other authorized individual or Judge.
   (C)   The town may also maintain a civil action in the name of the town in
the Circuit Court of the county in which the municipality or the major portion
of the territory of the municipality is located to obtain an injunction to
compel compliance with, or to enjoin a violation or threatened violation of,
any ordinance of the municipality, and the Circuit Court has jurisdiction to
grant the relief sought. A certified transcript of a judgment for a fine
rendered by a municipal court may be filed in the office of the Clerk of the
Circuit Court and docketed in the judgment lien book kept in the office of the
Clerk of the County Commission in the same manner and with the same effect as
the filing and docketing of a certified transcript of judgment rendered by a
magistrate court as provided for in W. Va. Code § 50-6-2. The judgment shall
include costs assessed against the defendant.
   (D)   In addition to any other costs which may be lawfully imposed, an
additional cost shall be imposed in an amount of not less than $42 for a
traffic offense constituting a moving violation, regardless of whether the
penalty for the violation provides for a period of incarceration, and for any
other offense for which the ordinance prescribing the offense provides for a
period of incarceration. Of the $42 imposed as an additional cost, $2 are
administrative costs, to be retained by the municipality, and $40 shall be paid
into the Regional Jail and Correctional Facility Development Fund in the State
Treasury in accordance with division (A)(1) above.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 8-11-1
§ 10.11 PRINTED COPIES CERTIFIED MAY BE READ IN EVIDENCE.
   Any printed copy of this code certified prior to the facsimile signature of
the Town Recorder shall be held to be a true and correct copy of such
codification and may be read in evidence in the Town Court without further
proof of the provisions contained therein.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.12 CODE COPIES AVAILABLE IN RECORDER’S OFFICE.
   Three copies of this code, maintained currently up to date, shall be kept
available in the Recorder’s office (hereinafter used to include and mean Clerk)
for public use and inspection at all reasonable times.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Wherever in this code, including the codes and ordinances adopted by
reference, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever in this code the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation
of any such provision of this code shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $200 for each separate violation; provided, however, that the infliction
of a fine under the provisions of this section shall not prevent the revocation
of any permit or license or the taking of other punitive or remedial action
where called for or permitted under the provisions of this code or other
applicable law.
(Ord. passed 10-2-1983)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
34.   FINANCES, REVENUE AND TAXES
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Mayor
   
30.02   Recorder or Clerk; bond and duties
   
30.03   Records kept by Town Council
   
30.04   Compensation of municipal authorities
Elections
   
30.15   Town governed by state laws
   
30.16   Eligibility
   
30.17   Candidate filing fees
   
30.18   Elections biennial; term
   
30.19   Vacancies
   
30.20   Registration records and poll books
   
30.21   Election Board duties
   
30.22   Polling hours
   
30.23   Opening and closing polls
   
30.24   Voter residency requirements
   
30.25   Mode of voting
   
30.26   Voting procedure
   
30.27   Absentee voters
   
30.28   Absentee ballots
   
30.29   Voting only once
   
30.30   Challenges
   
30.31   Procedures after polls closed
   
30.32   Counting votes
   
30.33   Certificate of tabulation
   
30.34   Board of Canvassers; ascertaining results
   
30.35   Ballot preservation and destruction; cost of recounts
   
30.36   Certification of election results
   
30.37   Tie vote procedures; contested elections
   
30.38   Correction of returns
   
30.39   Payment of election officials
Meetings
   
30.50   Regular meetings; time and place
   
30.51   Special meetings
   
30.52   Order of business
   
30.53   Rules of order
   
30.54   Passing ordinances on first reading
   
30.55   Councilpersons required to attend
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall have general supervision of all the affairs of the
municipality and may require such reports from the various officers and
employees of the municipality as he or she may reasonably deem necessary to
carry out his or her executive responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 30.02 RECORDER OR CLERK; BOND AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Bond. The Recorder or Clerk shall be bonded in the sum of $5,000 with
surety acceptable to the governing body before assuming the duties of this
office.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
   (B)   Keeping minutes and the like. The Recorder or Clerk shall keep the
minutes of all meetings of the governing body and shall preserve the original
copy of all ordinances in a separate ordinance book.
(Prior Code, § 1-402)
   (C)   General administrative duties and the like.
      (1)   The Recorder or Clerk shall perform all administrative duties for
the governing body and for the municipality which are not expressly assigned by
the town ordinances or this code to another corporate officer. He or she shall
also have custody of and be responsible for maintaining all corporate bonds,
records and papers in such fireproof vault or safe as the municipality shall
provide.
      (2)   In the absence from the town of, or in case of the sickness of, the
Mayor or during any vacancy in the office of mayor, the Recorder or Clerk shall
perform the duties of the Mayor and be vested with all his or her powers.
(Prior Code, § 1-403)
§ 30.03 RECORDS KEPT BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Council shall keep or cause to be kept and preserved in the custody of
reliable persons its records as follows:
   (A)   A well-bound and indexed book called the “Lost Creek Code of
Ordinances,” in which shall be kept up to date the general ordinances passed
and adopted by the Council;
   (B)   A well-bound and indexed book called the “Minutes of the Town of Lost
Creek,” in which shall be kept up to date all the proceedings, special
ordinances or orders and resolutions passed and adopted by the Council, both of
which books shall be open to inspection by the public at reasonable hours;
   (C)   A well-bound and indexed book called the “Docket” shall be kept up to
date in the office of the Mayor, in which shall be noted each case brought
before or tried by him or her, together with the proceedings therein, the
return, the fact of appearance or nonappearance, the posting of bond, the
defense, the hearing, the judgment, the costs, and in case the judgment be one
of conviction, the amount in payment of or on the same, and the disposition of
the bond and any appeal shall be noted. The record of each case shall be signed
by the Mayor;
   (D)   A well-bound, three-column book called the “Ledger” shall be kept up
to date, in which shall be entered all amounts received by the town or which
the town pays out, with dates of such receipts or payments, and from, to whom
and for what purpose, and shall be kept in such a manner that it will show in
the third column the financial condition of the town expressed as a credit
balance or a deficit. This book shall be kept available and shall be laid
before the Council at every regular meeting; and
   (E)   Any correspondences or copies of correspondences of such a nature that
should be preserved shall be kept, and checkbook stubs, letter files and
receipt files, and such other records as the Council may designate from time to
time, shall be kept.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
§ 30.04 COMPENSATION OF MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Salaries of the municipal authorities of the town shall be as follows.
      (1)   The salary of the Mayor shall be $550 per month, to be paid the
first of each month, for the duties performed as Mayor.
      (2)   The salary of the Recorder shall be $150 per month, to be paid each
month, for duties performed as Recorder.
      (3)   The salary of each Councilperson shall be $60 per month, total
($720) to be paid annually, for duties performed as a Councilperson.
      (4)   The salary of Clerk shall be $525 per month, to be paid the first
of each month, for duties performed as Clerk.
   (B)   This section shall take effect, provided that no salaries under this
section shall be increased or diminished during the term of office, from and
after the next general election of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-501) (Ord. passed 3-7-2000; Ord. passed 2-7-2006; Ord. passed
11-6-2007; Ord. passed 3-6-2012; Ord. passed 3-3-2020)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 TOWN GOVERNED BY STATE LAWS.
   The town government shall be conducted and administered in accordance within
the laws of the state governing municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
§ 30.16 ELIGIBILITY.
   No person shall be eligible to the office of Mayor, Recorder or
Councilperson of said town unless, at the time of his or her election, he or
she is a resident of said town and entitled to vote in the town election for
members of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
§ 30.17 CANDIDATE FILING FEES.
   (A)   Every person who becomes a candidate for nomination for office in any
town primary election shall, at the time of filing the certificate of
announcement as required, pay a filing fee to the Recorder as follows.
 
Office                                   Filing Fee
Candidate for Mayor                      $50
Candidate for member of the Town Council $15
Candidate for Recorder                   $25
 
   (B)   All money received by the Recorder from such fees shall be credited to
the General Revenue Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-809)
§ 30.18 ELECTIONS BIENNIAL; TERM.
   At the said biennial election for town officers, there shall be elected a
Mayor, Recorder and five Councilpersons, whose terms of office shall commence
on the first day of July following such election and shall be for two years and
until their successors are elected and qualified, unless sooner removed in the
manner hereinafter specified.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)
§ 30.19 VACANCIES.
   When a vacancy shall occur from any cause in the office of Mayor, Recorder
or in the Council, the vacancy shall be filled by appointment, until the next
succeeding election, by the Town Council from among the citizens of said town
eligible to the said office under these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)
§ 30.20 REGISTRATION RECORDS AND POLL BOOKS.
   (A)   Registration records. The Recorder, not less than three days prior to
every election within the town other than primary elections, shall procure from
the Clerk of the County Commission the registration records from the municipal
precinct file in said Clerk’s office which are necessary for the conducting of
the municipal election. Within ten days after the date of such municipal
election, the Recorder shall return said records to the office of the Clerk of
said Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1-811)
   (B)   Poll books.
      (1)   Every poll book shall bear on the first page thereof the following
heading.
 
Names of all persons voting the municipal corporation of the Town of Lost Creek
and the County of Harrison, at the election held on the day of ____________.
 
      (2)   Two of such poll books with the names of all persons voting shall
be kept at every election held in said town.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
§ 30.21 ELECTION BOARD DUTIES.
   The Council shall, before the biennial election for town officers, appoint
seven voters to act as Commissioners of Election and poll clerks as hereinafter
specified, and it shall be the duty of the persons so appointed to attend at
the place of voting and to superintend the election to be held in said town and
return the results there of as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-806)
§ 30.22 POLLING HOURS.
   At every election held in said town, the polls shall be opened on the day of
such election at 6:30 a.m. in the morning and be closed at 7:30 p.m. in the
evening, Eastern Standard Time or Daylight Savings Time, whichever shall
prevail in the community at the time.
(Prior Code, § 1-805)
§ 30.23 OPENING AND CLOSING POLLS.
   Before any voter is permitted to vote, the Receiving Commissioners of the
election shall cause to be proclaimed that such election is open. When the
polls are closed, a proclamation must be made of the fact by one of the
Receiving Commissioners of the election to the people outside in a loud and
audible tone of voice, and after such proclamation is made, no more votes shall
be received.
(Prior Code, § 1-815)
§ 30.24 VOTER RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons who have been bona fide residents of the territory included in
said town for 60 days next preceding any election held therein and who are
qualified voters under the constitution and laws of the state, and no others,
shall be entitled to vote at any election held in said town, but no person
shall be deemed a resident of said town by reason of being stationed therein
for any temporary purpose.
(Prior Code, § 1-807)
§ 30.25 MODE OF VOTING.
   In all elections by the people of said town, the mode of voting shall be by
ballot, but the voter shall be left free to vote by either open, sealed or
secret ballot, as he or she may elect.
(Prior Code, § 1-808)
§ 30.26 VOTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person offering to vote in an election shall, upon entering
the election room, clearly state his or her name and residence to the poll
clerk. If such person is found to be duly registered and qualified to vote, one
of the Receiving Commissioners shall present to him or her a poll slip, to be
signed by the voter and presented to the second Receiving Commissioner.
      (2)   When the voter’s signature is properly recorded, the second
Commissioner and the poll clerk shall each sign their own names in the place
indicated on the back of the official ballot and it shall be delivered to the
voter, to be voted by him or her then without leaving the election room, and in
no case shall either of said officials sign the name of the other.
   (B)   (1)   After preparing the ballot, the voter shall fold the same so
that the face shall not be exposed and so that the names of the election
officials thereon shall be seen. The voter shall then announce his or her name
and present his or her ballot to one of the Commissioners, who shall hand the
same to the other Commissioner, who shall deposit it in the ballot box if such
ballot is the official one and properly signed.
      (2)   The Commissioners of the election may inspect every ballot before
it is deposited in the ballot box to ascertain whether it is single but without
unfolding it or unrolling it so as to disclose its content.
   (C)   When the voter has voted, he or she shall retire immediately from the
election room and beyond the 60-foot limit thereof and shall not return except
by permission of the Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 1-813)
§ 30.27 ABSENTEE VOTERS.
   Any person who is duly registered and otherwise qualified to vote, but who
is unable to vote in person at the polls in said election by reason of illness,
injury or physical disability, or who is required to be absent from the
corporation during the entire time the polls are open in said election, may
apply to the Recorder’s office for an absent voter’s ballot.
(Prior Code, § 1-810)
§ 30.28 ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
   (A)   Voting by personal appearance.
      (1)   A person desiring to vote an absent voter’s ballot by personal
appearance may appear during regular business hours at the office of the Town
Recorder not more than 15 days before the election, and not any day thereafter
up to and including the Saturday next preceding the date of the election, and
shall make application to vote by absentee ballot. Said application shall be in
writing and shall contain the voter’s sworn statement that he or she is a duly
registered and qualified voter and giving the specific reason for his or her
required absence.
      (2)   Upon determination by the Town Recorder that the applicant is
entitled to vote an absentee voter’s ballot by personal appearance, the
Recorder shall hand to him or her one absentee voter’s ballot, one voter’s
ballot envelope No. 1, unsealed, and one absent voter’s ballot envelope No. 2,
unsealed. The voter shall then retire to the place provided in said Recorder’s
office and there mark his or her ballot. The voter shall then enclose the same
in envelope No. 1 and seal it; enclose envelope No. 1 in envelope No. 2 and
seal it; and transmit possession of such sealed envelope to the Town Recorder.
      (3)   Upon receipt of such sealed envelope, the Town Recorder shall enter
the required information into the record of the person applying for voting by
an absent voter’s ballot and shall place such sealed envelope in a secure
location in his or her office, there to remain until delivered to the polling
place in accordance with the provisions of the Election Laws of the state,
being W. Va. Code Ch. 3.
   (B)   Voting by mail.
      (1)   Any person desiring to vote an absent voter’s ballot by mail may
not more than 60 days prior to the date of the election, and on any day
thereafter up to and including the fourth day preceding the election, make
application by mail to the Town Recorder for an absent voter’s ballot to be
voted at such election.
      (2)   Upon determination by the Town Recorder that the applicant is
entitled to vote an absentee voter ballot by mail, the Recorder shall, between
the twentieth day and the fourth day next prior to the election, mail the
applicant one absent voter’s ballot and one absent voter’s ballot envelope No.
2. After the voter has voted his or her absent voter’s ballot, he or she shall
enclose the absent voter’s ballot in absent voter’s ballot envelope No. 2 and
seal that envelope, and mail, postage prepaid, said sealed envelope.
      (3)   The Recorder shall, upon receipt of such sealed envelope, enter the
required information into a record of persons applying for voting by an absent
voter’s ballot and shall place such sealed envelope in a secure location in his
or her office, there to remain until delivered to the polling place in
accordance with the provisions of the Election Laws of the state, being W. Va.
Code Ch. 3.
(Prior Code, § 1-814)
§ 30.29 VOTING ONLY ONCE.
   No person shall vote more than once in the same election, even if he or she
may not have voted the first time for as many persons as he or she might have
lawfully voted for.
(Prior Code, § 1-818)
§ 30.30 CHALLENGES.
   The Commissioners holding the election at the place of voting shall permit
all persons to vote entitled to do so and reject the votes of all persons not
entitled to vote at said election, and shall, in all respects, have the poll
taken fairly according to law. They shall swear and examine any person (or the
person examined may affirm) regarding his or her right to vote at said election
whenever such right to vote is questioned by any person. If the vote of any
person offering to vote be rejected, his or her name, if required by him or her
or by any candidate at said election, shall be entered on a separate list to be
kept for that purpose; and if any person be permitted to vote whose vote is
challenged, the word “challenged” shall be written on the poll book opposite
his or her name.
(Prior Code, § 1-817)
§ 30.31 PROCEDURES AFTER POLLS CLOSED.
   As soon as possible after the polls are closed, the names entered on the
poll books shall be counted by the Receiving Commissioners and the clerk and
the number thereof set down in words at length, and also in figures, at the
foot of the lists, which shall there be signed by the Commissioners and clerk.
The Receiving Board shall then join the Counting Board in counting, tabulating
and summarizing the votes in the manner provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-821)
§ 30.32 COUNTING VOTES.
   (A)   Commencement of counting. When the time to begin counting the votes
arrives, the County Board shall take charge of the first ballot box as
heretofore provided, and shall proceed to ascertain the result of the election
in the manner hereinafter specified, and shall not adjourn nor delay until the
votes are all counted, the result ascertained, the memorandum made and copies
thereof delivered and posted as hereinafter required.
(Prior Code, § 1-819)
   (B)   Counting procedures.
      (1)   When the Counting Board has retired to the place provided for the
counting of the votes, the ballot box shall be opened and one of the Counting
Commissioners, taking therefrom one ballot at a time in the presence of the
other officers, shall read therefrom the designation of the office to be filled
and the names of the persons voted for to fill each office and hand the ballot
to the other Counting Commissioner, who, if satisfied that it was correctly
read, shall deposit it in the locked ballot box provided for this purpose. The
contents of the ballots, as they are read, shall be entered by the counting
clerks separately, under the supervision of the Counting Commissioners, on
tally papers for that purpose by suitable marks in ink opposite to or under the
name of each person voted for.
      (2)   If two or more ballots be found folded or rolled together and the
names thereon be the same, one of them only shall be counted, but if the names
thereon be different in any particular, neither of them shall be counted,
except if it be manifest what was intended by the voter, and in either case,
the Commissioners shall, in writing in ink, place a common number on said
ballots and state thereon that they were folded or rolled together when voted.
(Prior Code, § 1-820)
§ 30.33 CERTIFICATE OF TABULATION.
   (A)   As soon as the results are ascertained, the Commissioners and clerks
of the election shall make out and sign two certificates thereof in the
following form or to the following effect: “We, the undersigned, who acted as
Commissioners and clerks of election held at the Community Building, the
municipal corporation of Lost Creek and County of Harrison, on the ____ day of
________, do certify that, having been first duly sworn, we have fairly and
impartially held the said election according to law and the result thereof is
as follows: For the office of Mayor, _____________ received _____ votes,
_____________ received _____ votes,” and so on throughout, stating the name of
every person voted for, for every office, and in words at length and also in
figures the number of votes he or she received for the same, and concluding as
follows: “Given under our hands this ____ day of ________.”
   (B)   The said two certificates shall contain complete returns of the polls
taken for every office to be filled. When said certificates are signed, the
ballots shall be enclosed by the Commissioners in an envelope, which they shall
seal up where it is sealed, and endorse in ink on the outside of said envelope
as follows: “Ballots of the election in the municipal corporation of the Town
of Lost Creek, County of Harrison, the ____ day of ________.” The ballots
sealed in said envelope shall be returned to the ballot box together with the
tally sheets, poll books and certificates, and all shall be locked therein. The
Receiving Board poll clerk shall take charge of and, within 12 hours after said
completion, shall deliver said ballot box with its contents intact, and the
ballot box keys, to the Recorder, to be preserved by him or her and delivered
to the Board of Canvassers as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-822)
§ 30.34 BOARD OF CANVASSERS; ASCERTAINING RESULTS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall be ex-officio a Board of Canvassers and, as
such, shall keep in the minute book a complete record of all its proceedings in
ascertaining and declaring the result of every election in said town. Said
Council shall convene as such Canvassing Board at the Mayor’s office on the
fifth day (Sunday excepted) after every election held for said town, and the
Recorder shall lay the ballots, poll books, tally sheets and certificates
before it.
   (B)   The Council may, if deemed necessary, required the attendance of any
of the Commissioners, poll clerks or other persons present at the election to
appear and testify respecting the same, and make such others as shall seem
proper to procure correct returns and ascertain the true result of said
election in said town, but in such case, all of the questions to the witnesses
and all the answers thereto, and the evidence, shall be taken down in full and
spread upon the record or a transcript thereof filed and made a part of the
record. All orders made shall also be spread upon the record. The Council may
adjourn from time to time, but not longer than absolutely necessary, and when a
majority of the Council is not present, its meeting shall stand adjourned until
the next day, and so on from day to day, until a quorum be present.
   (C)   The Council, before proceeding to canvass the returns of the election,
shall open the sealed package of ballots therein so laid before them and count
the number and enter the same number upon the record. The ballots therein shall
then be again sealed up carefully in a new envelope, and each member of the
Council present shall write his or her name across the place where said
envelope is sealed. After canvassing the returns of the election, the Council
shall, upon the demand of any candidate voted for at such election, open and
examine the sealed package of ballots and recount the same, but in such a case,
they shall seal the same again along with the envelope above named, and the
Recorder and each member of the Council shall write his or her name across the
place or places where it is sealed and endorse in ink, on the outside: “Ballots
of the election in the municipal corporation of the Town of Lost Creek, County
of Harrison, on the ____ day of ________.”
(Prior Code, § 1-823)
§ 30.35 BALLOT PRESERVATION AND DESTRUCTION; COST OF RECOUNTS.
   (A)   When the Council has made its certification and declared the result as
hereinafter provided, it shall deposit the sealed package of ballots, poll
books, tally sheets and certificates with the Recorder, who shall carefully
preserve the same for 60 days.
      (1)   If there be no contest pending as to any such election, said
ballots, poll books, tally sheets and certificates shall be destroyed, by fire
or otherwise, without opening the sealed package of ballots.
      (2)   If there be such contest pending, then they shall be so destroyed
as soon as said contest is ended.
   (B)   If the result is not changed by such recount, the cost and expense
thereof shall be paid by the party at whose instance the same was made.
(Prior Code, § 1-824)
§ 30.36 CERTIFICATION OF ELECTION RESULTS.
   (A)   When an election is held in said town for the offices of Mayor,
Recorder and Councilperson, the Town Council or a quorum thereof, under the
regulations prescribed in §
30.34 of this chapter, shall carefully and impartially ascertain the result of
said election and shall record the same in the minute book in the following
form, or to the following effect.
 
The Town Council of the Town of Lost Creek, having carefully and impartially
examined the returns laid before it of the election held in said town on the
____ day of ________, the members of said Council in attendance at this meeting
do hereby certify that in said town for the office of Mayor, _____________
received _____ votes, etc.; for the office of Recorder, _____________ received
_____ votes, etc.; and it appearing from said returns that _____________
received the highest number of votes cast for Mayor, that _____________
received the highest number of votes for Recorder, and that _____________,
etc., received the highest number of votes cast for the five Councilpersons,
the said _____________ is declared duly elected Mayor, the said _____________
is declared duly elected Recorder, and the said _____________ , etc., are
declared duly elected Councilpersons of said town for the term of two years,
beginning on the first day of July ______.
 
   (B)   In said certificate shall be set forth, according to the truth, the
full name of every person voted for and, in words at length and in figures, the
number of votes he or she received for any office, and when the same is entered
on record, the members of said Council shall affix their signatures thereto on
said record. A copy of said certificate shall also be delivered by mail or by
hand to each newly elected officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-825)
§ 30.37 TIE VOTE PROCEDURES; CONTESTED ELECTIONS.
   After the votes are canvassed and the results certified, if two or more
persons shall have received an equal number of votes for the same office in
said election held in said town, if such number be the highest in said election
held in said town for such office, the Canvassing Board shall notify such
candidates to appear before said Board within 72 hours of said certification.
At this time, in their presence, the Canvassing Board shall decide by lot which
of them shall be returned elected and shall make their return accordingly. All
contested elections shall be heard and decided by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-826)
§ 30.38 CORRECTION OF RETURNS.
   Though illegal votes be received or legal votes be rejected, the returns of
the votes taken in such election shall not be set aside for that cause, but it
may be shown, by proper evidence before the Council, for whom such illegal
votes, or any of them, were cast or for whom the legal votes which were
rejected would have been given, and the returns shall be corrected only to the
extent that it is so shown.
(Prior Code, § 1-827)
§ 30.39 PAYMENT OF ELECTION OFFICIALS.
   Every Commissioner and clerk of election appointed under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be paid the sum of $15 for training, and $150 for the day
of election, and $50 for the Counting Board, making the total pay for election
workers $215 a person.
(Prior Code, § 1-828) (Ord. passed 7-1-2003; Ord. passed 4-5-2016; Ord. passed
6-7-2022)
MEETINGS
§ 30.50 REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The governing body shall hold regular monthly meetings at 7:30 p.m., hour
specified from time to time by an order of the Council, on the first Tuesday of
each month at the Community Building.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 30.51 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, when he or she deems it necessary, may call a special meeting of
the Council by giving its members and the Recorder notice of not less than 12
hours next prior to such meeting, and any two members of the Council, when they
deem it necessary, may call such a meeting by giving such notice as aforesaid
to the Mayor, Recorder and other members of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 30.52 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   At each meeting of the governing body, the following regular order of
business shall be observed unless dispensed with by a majority vote of the
members present:
   (A)   Call to order by the Mayor;
   (B)   Roll call by the Recorder or Clerk;
   (C)   Reading of the minutes of the previous meeting by the Recorder or
Clerk and approval of corrections;
   (D)   Grievance of citizens;
   (E)   Communications from the Mayor;
   (F)   Reports from committees, members of the governing body and other
officers;
   (G)   Old business;
   (H)   New business; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1-103)
§ 30.53 RULES OF ORDER.
   The rules of order and parliamentary procedure contained in Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised, shall govern the transaction of business by and before the
governing body at its meetings in all cases to which they are applicable and in
which they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the town ordinances and
this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
§ 30.54 PASSING ORDINANCES ON FIRST READING.
   The Council may pass any pending ordinance, other than those whose
requirements as to readings are otherwise set out in the state statutes, for
the town on its first reading before a meeting of the Council and without
posting or publication by the Council, and the same shall become effective
forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 1-605)
§ 30.55 COUNCILPERSONS REQUIRED TO ATTEND.
   When there is not a quorum present at any meeting, regular or special, the
Mayor, in order to secure a quorum, may give a forthwith notice, in writing, to
any absent member or members to forthwith attend such meeting, whereupon such
member or members so notified shall at once attend the meeting unless excused
by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person offending against the provision of §§
30.15 through
30.39 of this chapter shall, notwithstanding his or her having been in custody,
be liable to any penalty or punishment for his or her offense prescribed by
law; and any person who, being thereto commanded by the Commissioners, either
verbally or in writing, shall fail or refuse to assist to the utmost of his or
her power in whatever may be necessary or proper to prevent intimidation,
disorder or violence at the polls shall forfeit not less than $5 nor more than
$50.
(Prior Code, § 1-816)
   (C)   Any person who fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of §
30.55 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge, be punished by a fine not to exceed
$100, and such failure or refusal shall be grounds for removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Officials
   
31.01   Town Attorney
Commissions and Committees Generally
   
31.15   Required structural form
   
31.16   Authority of Mayor
   
31.17   Commissioners appointed by Mayor
   
31.18   Commissioner duties
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
31.30   Board of Park Commissioners; membership and terms
   
31.31   Superintendent of Parks and Recreation
   
31.32   Powers and duties
   
31.33   Funds
OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney shall be the legal advisor and counselor of the town and
for all officers of the town. He or she shall represent the town in all courts
and all proceedings in which the town, or any town officer or employee, in his
or her official capacity, is a party, and he or she shall perform all such
duties incidental to his or her office as may be required of him or her by the
Town Council and Mayor. The Town Attorney shall receive such regular
compensation and such fees for special services as may be agreed upon by the
Town Council and the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-1401)
COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES GENERALLY
§ 31.15 REQUIRED STRUCTURAL FORM.
   The purpose of this section is to set forth a structural form which may be
used in regard to enacting the enabling ordinance creating commissions. This
should address itself to the following:
   (A)   Created; composition; appointment, terms and compensation of members;
filling vacancies;
(Prior Code, § 1-501)
   (B)   Purpose;
(Prior Code, § 1-502)
   (C)   Officers; rules; meetings; records;
(Prior Code, § 1-503)
   (D)   Powers and authority generally; budget; annual report; and
(Prior Code, § 1-504)
   (E)   Duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-505)
§ 31.16 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor is vested with the sole authority to remove a commissioner from
his or her respective committee, appoint a new commissioner to a committee or
disband or add committees as he or she sees fit.
(Res. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 31.17 COMMISSIONERS APPOINTED BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall appoint one Councilperson of the Town Council as a
commissioner of the following committees:
   (A)   Streets;
   (B)   Parks and Recreation;
   (C)   Building and Property Maintenance;
   (D)   Marketing, Media and Promotions; and
   (E)   Fire and Law Enforcement.
(Res. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 31.18 COMMISSIONER DUTIES.
   (A)   Each commissioner appointed in §
31.17 of this chapter shall have the responsibility of providing an update at
each regular meeting of the Town Council or at any special meeting where an
update is requested by the Mayor
   (B)   Each commissioner appointed in §
31.17 of this chapter shall investigate any complaint made by any citizen that
encroaches upon the subject of his or her respective committee.
(Res. passed 7-7-2020)
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 31.30 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS; MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Board of Park Commissioners heretofore created and now existing
shall be continued. As authorized under the provisions of Ch. 91, Acts of the
Legislature, regular session, 1939, as amended, being W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art.
21, the Town Council shall, by ordinance, provide that the Board shall consist
of five members and shall also provide that the members shall be appointed by
the Council. Of the four members first appointed after the membership has been
increased from three to five, two shall be appointed for terms of two years and
two for terms of six years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of
six years.
   (B)   The members of the Board in office on the date this subchapter becomes
effective shall, unless sooner removed, continue to serve until their
respective terms expire and their successors have been appointed.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1987)
§ 31.31 SUPERINTENDENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Board shall appoint a Superintendent of Parks and Recreation, who shall
be a person of proved executive and administrative ability with experience or
professional training in physical education and community recreation. At the
time of his or her appointment, he or she need not be a resident of the town or
state, but during his or her tenure of office, he or she shall reside in the
county.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1987)
§ 31.32 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the powers and shall perform the duties conferred and
required by general law. More particularly, the Board shall be charged with the
responsibility of providing public parks, playgrounds, athletic fields,
swimming pools and other recreational facilities and of providing an adequate
recreational program for the inhabitants of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1987)
§ 31.33 FUNDS.
   (A)   The Council shall provide and allocate in the annual town budget
sufficient funds for the operation and maintenance of an adequate system of
town parks and recreational facilities and of an adequate recreational program.
   (B)   As provided by law, the Board may in its own name accept and disburse
any funds it may receive by gift, bequest or devise for park or recreational
purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-5-1987)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
32.01   Town Court established
   
32.02   Disposition of persons arrested
   
32.03   Town Judge
   
32.04   Maintaining docket
   
32.05   Issuing arrest warrants
   
32.06   Issuing summons
   
32.07   Issuing subpoenas
   
32.08   Appearance bonds authorized
   
32.09   Bond amounts, conditions and forms
   
32.10   Imposition, remission of fines and costs
   
32.11   Disposition, report of fines and costs
   
32.12   Disturbance of proceedings
   
32.13   Appeals
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 TOWN COURT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a court, which shall be called the Town Court.
The Town Judge shall preside over said Court, or appointed Councilpersons.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
§ 32.02 DISPOSITION OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by law, when any person is arrested for
any offense other than one involving drunkenness, he or she shall be brought
before the Town Court for immediate trial or allowed to post bond. When the
arrested person is drunk, the police officer will refer to code set by the laws
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-906)
   (B)   Every person charged with violating a municipal ordinance shall be
entitled to an immediate trial and disposition of his or her case, provided the
Town Court is in session or the Town Judge is reasonably available. However,
the provisions of this section shall not apply when the alleged offender, by
reason of drunkenness or other incapacity, is not in a proper condition or is
not able to appear before the Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-1007)
§ 32.03 TOWN JUDGE.
   The Mayor is to handle judicial matters within the municipality, and shall
preside over the Town Court, and shall be known as the Town Judge.
Alternatively, pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-10-2, the Mayor
may appoint a qualified person to the office of the Town Judge. The Town Judge
and Town Court shall have jurisdiction, exercise the powers and perform the
duties specified for mayors, municipal courts and municipal judges,
respectively, in W. Va. Code § 8-10-1, as last amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
§ 32.04 MAINTAINING DOCKET.
   The Town Judge shall keep a complete docket of all matters coming before him
or her in his or her judicial capacity. The docket shall include for each
defendant such information as his or her name, warrant or summons numbers,
alleged offense, disposition, fines and costs imposed, and whether collected,
whether committed to jail and all other information that may be relevant.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
§ 32.05 ISSUING ARREST WARRANTS.
   In addition to the Town Judge, the Mayor and the Town Recorder shall have
the authority as herein set forth to issue warrants for all offenses committed
against this code and its amendments hereinafter adopted.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
§ 32.06 ISSUING SUMMONS.
   When a complaint of an alleged ordinance violation is made to the Town
Judge, or such other official as specified in §
32.05 of this chapter, the Judge may, in his or her discretion, in lieu of
issuing an arrest warrant, issue a summons ordering the alleged offender to
personally appear before the Town Court at a time specified therein to answer
to the charges against him or her. The summons shall contain a brief
description of the offense charged but need not set out verbatim the provisions
of the ordinance alleged to have been violated. Upon the failure of any person
to appear before the Town Court as commanded in a summons lawfully served on
him or her, the cause may be proceeded with ex parte and the judgment of the
Court shall be valid and binding, subject to the defendant’s right of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
§ 32.07 ISSUING SUBPOENAS.
   The Town Judge, or those officials as specified in §
32.05 of this chapter, may subpoena as witnesses all persons whose testimony he
or she believes will be relevant and material to matters coming before his or
her court, and it shall be unlawful for any person lawfully served with such a
subpoena to fail or neglect to comply therewith.
(Prior Code, § 1-1006) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.08 APPEARANCE BONDS AUTHORIZED.
   When the Town Judge is not available or when an alleged offender requests
and has reasonable grounds for a delay in the trial of his or her case, he or
she may, in lieu of remaining in jail pending disposition of his or her case,
be allowed to post an appearance bond with the Town Judge or, in the absence of
the Judge, with the ranking police officer on duty at the time, provided such
alleged offender is not drunk or otherwise in need of protective custody.
(Prior Code, § 1-1008)
§ 32.09 BOND AMOUNTS, CONDITIONS AND FORMS.
   (A)   An appearance bond in any case before the Town Court shall be in such
amount as the Town Judge shall prescribe and shall be conditioned that the
defendant shall appear for trial before the Town Court at the stated time and
place.
   (B)   An appearance bond in any case shall be in the sum of not less than
$100 and shall be conditioned that if the Circuit Court shall find against the
appellant, the fines and all costs of the trial and appeal shall be promptly
paid by the defendant or his or her sureties.
   (C)   An appearance or an appeal bond, in any case, may be made in the form
of a cash deposit, or by any corporate surety company authorized to do business
in the state, or by two private persons who individually own real property
located within the county. No other types of bond shall be acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 1-1011)
§ 32.10 IMPOSITION, REMISSION OF FINES AND COSTS.
   All fines and costs shall be imposed and recorded by the Town Judge on the
Town Court docket in open court. After any fine and costs have been so imposed
and recorded, the Town Judge shall have no power to remit or release the same,
or any part thereof, except when necessary to correct an error.
(Prior Code, § 1-1009)
§ 32.11 DISPOSITION, REPORT OF FINES AND COSTS.
   All funds coming into the hands of the Town Judge in the form of fines,
costs and forfeitures shall be recorded by him or her and paid over daily to
the municipality. At the end of each month, he or she shall submit to the
governing body a report accounting for the collection or non-collection of all
fines and costs imposed by his or her court during the current month and to
date for the current fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-1012)
§ 32.12 DISTURBANCE OF PROCEEDINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance of any trial
before the Town Court by making loud or unusual noises, by using indecorous,
profane or blasphemous language, or by any distracting conduct whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 1-1013) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.13 APPEALS.
   Any defendant who is dissatisfied with any judgment of the Town Court
against him or her, within the ten days next after such judgment is rendered,
Sundays and legal holidays excepted, may appeal to the next term of the Circuit
Court upon posting an appeal bond as set forth in §
32.09 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1010)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any section of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $50 for each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-1014)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY AND EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   County Hazard Mitigation Plan adopted
   
33.02   National Incident Management System adopted
Fire Department
   
33.15   Establishment
   
33.16   Membership
   
33.17   Officers
   
33.18   Fire Chief duties
   
33.19   Department equipment, supplies and machinery
   
33.20   Unlawful actions against Fire Department
Police Department
   
33.35   Chief of Police
   
33.36   Police officer duties
   
33.37   Officers to wear uniforms, be armed
   
33.38   Officer training requirements; certification
   
33.39   Probationary period for officers
   
33.40   When arrests made by officers
   
33.41   Officers may require assistance
   
33.42   Department records
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the county’s Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. passed 3-21-2006)
§ 33.02 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ADOPTED.
    The town hereby establishes the National Incident Management System (NIMS)
as the town standard for incident management.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2005)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A fire company is hereby organized for the purposes and in accordance with
the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 15, to be known as “Lost Creek Fire
Company No. 1.”
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947)
§ 33.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   It shall consist of not less than 20 nor more than 64 members, who
shall reside in the town.
   (B)   Membership in the Company shall be by election by a majority of the
members of the Company present at any meeting.
   (C)   The members of the Company may incorporate in a nonprofit, non-stock-
issuing corporation under the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947)
§ 33.17 OFFICERS.
   The officers of the Company shall be a Commander and two assistants, who
shall be the sole officers responsible to the Council of the town, and such
other officers as the Company may elect under such regulations and bylaws as it
may, from time to time, adopt.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947)
§ 33.18 FIRE CHIEF DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commander of the Company shall be designated by the members of the
Fire Company and the Council as the Fire Chief of the town and, as such, shall
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of fire chiefs and shall, with the
consent of the Council and members of the Fire Company, formulate rules and
regulations for the Fire Company and for carrying out the purposes of fire
prevention and extinguishment, shall make inspections and reports required by
law and shall do generally all things required of fire chiefs.
   (B)   The Commanders of the Fire Company shall exercise the authority of a
fire chief at all fires and shall designate any person or persons to act as an
assistant or assistants.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947)
§ 33.19 DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES AND MACHINERY.
   All equipment, supplies and machinery used by the Company in and about the
prevention and extinguishment of fires shall be the property of the town and
shall be housed in a suitable building or buildings by the town.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947)
§ 33.20 UNLAWFUL ACTIONS AGAINST FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Ride on any firefighting equipment unless authorized to do so by the
Commander;
   (B)   Use any firefighting equipment, supplies or machinery for private
purposes or remove or take away any such equipment, machinery or supplies from
the place the same is kept by the town, or have any of the same in his or her
possession, unless authorized to do so by the Commander;
   (C)   Knowingly sound a false fire alarm;
   (D)   Drive any vehicle over, on or across a fire hose unless authorized to
do so by the Commander;
   (E)   Park a car or other vehicle within 20 feet of any fire hydrant or
water storage area;
   (F)   Obstruct the entrance to or exit from the building or buildings
wherein fire equipment supplies and machinery are kept;
   (G)   Park any vehicle within 300 feet of a fire unless authorized to do so
by the Commander or any police officer of the town; or
   (H)   Willfully destroy, deface, damage or injure any firefighting
equipment, supplies or machinery.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947) Penalty, see §
33.99
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.35 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The office of the Chief of Police is hereby established. The Chief of Police
shall be the commanding officer of the Police Department, and the Chief of
Police will be under the direction of the Mayor. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible to the Mayor and to the Town Council for the general administration
of his or her Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
§ 33.36 POLICE OFFICER DUTIES.
   (A)   All police officers shall obey and comply with such orders and
administration rules and regulations as the Chief of Police may officially
issue.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
   (B)   Police officers shall preserve law and order within the municipality.
They shall patrol the municipality and shall assist the Town Court during the
trial of cases. Police officers shall also promptly serve any legal process
issued by the Town Court.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
§ 33.37 OFFICERS TO WEAR UNIFORMS, BE ARMED.
   All police officers shall wear such uniform and badge as the governing body
shall authorize and shall carry a service pistol and billy club at all times
while on duty unless otherwise expressly directed by the Chief for a special
assignment.
(Prior Code, § 1-909)
§ 33.38 OFFICER TRAINING REQUIREMENTS; CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any person who is employed as a law enforcement officer on the
effective date of this section must have approved training:
      (1)   The state’s basic police training course;
      (2)   The state’s Department of Public Safety cadet training program; or
      (3)   Other approved law enforcement training academy.
   (B)   To receive certification, the person shall make written application
requesting certification. The Governor’s Committee shall review the applicant’s
relevant scholastic records and, upon determining that the applicant has met
the requirements for certification, shall forward to the applicant
documentation of certification.
(Prior Code, § 1-910)
§ 33.39 PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR OFFICERS.
   On the hiring of a new police officer, he or she shall be subject to a 90-
day probationary period. At the end of such probationary period, the officer’s
work record will be reviewed by the Town Council and a recommendation shall be
made at that time as to whether the officer should be retained or released.
(Prior Code, § 1-911)
§ 33.40 WHEN ARRESTS MADE BY OFFICERS.
   Unless otherwise authorized or directed in this code or other applicable
law, an arrest of the person shall be made by a police officer in the following
cases:
   (A)   Whenever he or she is in possession of a warrant for the arrest of the
person;
   (B)   Whenever an offense is committed or a breach of the peace is
threatened in the officer’s presence by the person; and
   (C)   Whenever a felony has in fact been committed and the officer has
reasonable cause to believe the person has committed it.
(Prior Code, § 1-904)
§ 33.41 OFFICERS MAY REQUIRE ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse to aid a police
officer in making a lawful arrest when such person’s assistance is required by
the police officer and is reasonably necessary to effect the arrest.
(Prior Code, § 1-905) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.42 DEPARTMENT RECORDS.
   The Police Department shall keep a comprehensive and detailed daily record
in permanent form showing:
   (A)   All known or reported offenses and crimes committed within the
corporate limits;
   (B)   All arrests made by a police officer; and
   (C)   All police investigations made, funerals convoyed, fire calls and
other miscellaneous activities of the Police Department within the corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-908)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
33.20 of this chapter shall, upon conviction before the Town Judge or such
other officer as may have jurisdiction, pay a fine of not less than $10 and not
more than $100.
   (C)   A violation of §§
33.35 through
33.42 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for
each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-912)
(Ord. passed 5-6-1947)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES, REVENUE AND TAXES
Section
Funds
   
34.01   Receiving, collecting and depositing funds
Business and Occupation Tax
   
34.15   Definitions
   
34.16   Interstate and foreign commerce revenue excluded in measuring tax
   
34.17   Administration and construction
   
34.18   Imposition of privilege tax
   
34.19   Tax year
   
34.20   Tax cumulative
   
34.21   Production of coal and other natural resource products
   
34.22   Manufacturing, compounding or preparing products; processing of food
excepted
   
34.23   Business of selling tangible property; sales exempt
   
34.24   Public service or utility business
   
34.25   Business of contracting
   
34.26   Business of operating amusements
   
34.27   Service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed
   
34.28   Business of furnishing property for hire
   
34.29   Small loan and industrial loan business
   
34.30   Banking and other financial business
   
34.31   Exemptions
   
34.32   Tax credit for industrial expansion; regulations
   
34.33   Computation of tax; remittance
   
34.34   Return and remittance by taxpayer
   
34.35   Erroneous computation
   
34.36   Failure to make return; assessment by Recorder when believed deficient
   
34.37   Jeopardy assessment
   
34.38   Notice of assessment; petition for reassessment; hearing
   
34.39   Appeal, correction of assessments; injunction
   
34.40   Payment
   
34.41   Lien of tax due and unpaid
   
34.42   Enforcement of collection
   
34.43   Payment when person sells out or quits business; lien liability of
successor
   
34.44   Recording of tax liens
   
34.45   Collection by distraint; suite to enforce lien
   
34.46   Offenses
   
34.47   Town Council authority to revoke licenses
 
   
34.99   Penalty
FUNDS
§ 34.01 RECEIVING, COLLECTING AND DEPOSITING FUNDS.
   (A)   A bank account in the name “Town of Lost Creek” shall be opened and
maintained in a bond designated by the Council, and it shall be the duty of the
Recorder or Clerk to receive all monies received by the town and deposit the
same in said bank with reasonable promptness. The Recorder shall pay out monies
only for and when required to do so by the Council, and payments shall be made
by check only, the same to be properly stubbed when written and signed by the
town by the Mayor and Recorder.
   (B)   The Recorder and Mayor, and all other officers or employees of the
town who handle public funds or property, shall give bond as required by the
law of this state.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX
§ 34.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANKING BUSINESS or FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION. Any bank, banking association,
trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company or licensee,
building and loan association, savings and loan association, credit union,
finance company, investment company, investment broker or dealer and any other
similar business organization at least 90% of the assets of which consists of
intangible personal property and at least 90% of the gross receipts of which
consists of dividends, interest and other charges derived from the use of money
or credit.
   BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in with
the object of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect. BUSINESS
shall not include a casual sale by a person who is not engaged in the business
of selling the type of property involved in such casual sale. BUSINESS shall
include the production of natural resources or manufactured products and shall
include the activities of a banking business or financial organization.
   COMPANY. Used interchangeably with PERSON.
   CONTRACTING. Includes the furnishing of work, of both materials and work, in
the fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration, repair,
decoration or improvement of a new or existing building or structure, or any
part thereof, or for the alteration, improvement or development of real
property.
   GROSS INCOME or GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES.
      (1)   GROSS INCOME is the gross receipts of the taxpayer, other than a
banking or financial business, received as compensation for personal services
and the gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from trade, business, commerce
or sales and the value proceeding or accruing from the sale of tangible
property (real or personal), or service, or both, and all receipts by reason of
the investment of the capitol of the business engaged in, and including all
rentals, royalties, fees, reimbursed costs or expenses or other emoluments,
however designated, and including all interests, carrying charge fees or other
like income, however denominated, derived by the taxpayer from the repetitive
carrying of accounts in the regular course and conduct of his or her business
and the extension of credit in connection with the sale of any tangible
personal property or service, and without any deduction on account of the cost
of property sold, the cost of materials used, labor costs, taxes, royalties
paid in cash or in kind or otherwise, interest or discount or any other
expenses whatsoever. The GROSS INCOME of a banking or financial business is
specified in §
34.30 of this chapter.
      (2)   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES is the value, whether in money or other
property, actually proceeding from the sale of tangible property without any
deductions on account of the cost of property sold or expenses of any kind.
      (3)   The terms GROSS INCOME and GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES shall not be
construed to include:
         (a)   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
         (b)   The proceeds of the sale of goods;
         (c)   The amount allowed as “trade in value” for any article accepted
as part payment for any article sold;
         (d)   Excise tax imposed by this state; or
         (e)   Money or other property received or held by a professional
person for the professional person for the sole use and benefit of a client or
another person, or money received by the taxpayer on behalf of a bank or other
financial institution for the repayment of a debt of another.
   PERSON or COMPANY. Herein used interchangeably; includes any individual,
firm, copartnership, joint adventure, association, corporation, trust or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, and the plural as well as the
singular number, unless the intention to give a more limited meaning is
disclosed by the context.
   SALE, SALES or SELLING. Includes any transfer of ownership of, or title to,
property, whether for money or in exchange for other property.
   SELLING AT WHOLESALE or WHOLESALE SALES. Includes:
      (1)   Sales of any tangible personal property for the purpose of resale
in the form of tangible personal property;
      (2)   Sales of machinery, supplies or materials which are to be directly
consumed or used by the purchaser in the conduct of any business or activity
which is subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter; and
      (3)   Sales of any tangible personal property to the United States of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities or to this state, its institutions
or political subdivisions.
   SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING.
      (1)   Includes all activities engaged in by a person for other persons
for a consideration which involve the rendering of a service as distinguished
from the sale of tangible property, but shall not include the services rendered
by an employee to his or her employer.
      (2)   The term shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Persons engaged in manufacturing, compounding or preparing for
sale, profit or commercial use articles, substances or commodities which are
owned by another or others;
         (b)   Persons engaged as independent contractors in producing natural
resold products which are owned by another or others as personal property
immediately after the same are severed, extracted, reduced to possession and
produced; and
         (c)   The repetitive carrying of accounts in the regular course and
conduction of business and the extension of credit in connection with the sale
of any tangible property or service, except as to persons taxed pursuant to the
provisions of §
34.30 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.16 INTERSTATE AND FOREIGN COMMERCE REVENUE EXCLUDED IN MEASURING TAX.
   The measure of tax assessed in this subchapter shall not include gross
income derived from commerce between this state and other states of the United
States or between this state and foreign countries.
(Prior Code, § 5-402) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.17 ADMINISTRATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The administration of this subchapter is vested in and shall be
exercised by the Town Recorder, who shall prescribe forms and reasonable rules
or procedures in conformity with this subchapter, subject to the approval of
the Town Council, for the making of returns and for the ascertainment,
assessment and collection of the taxes imposed herein, and the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this subchapter in any of the counties of the state
shall be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Town Recorder, who shall
require the assistance of and act through the Town Attorney.
   (B)   This subchapter is based upon the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 11,
Art. 13, and it is intended that the sections of this subchapter be construed
with the light of said law so far as the premises admit hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-403) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.18 IMPOSITION OF PRIVILEGE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and shall be collected annual privilege taxes
against the persons, on account of the business and other activities, and in
the amounts to be determined by the application of rates against values or
gross income, as set forth in §§
34.21 through
34.30, inclusive, of this chapter.
   (B)   If any person liable for any tax under §§
34.21 through
34.30 of this chapter shall ship or transfer his or her products or any part
thereof out of the town without making sale of such products, the value of the
products in the condition or form in which they exist immediately before
transportation out of the town shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax
imposed in these sections. The Town Recorder shall prescribe equitable and
uniform rules for ascertaining such value.
   (C)   In determining value, however, as regards sales from one to another of
the affiliated companies or persons, or under other circumstances where the
relationship between the buyer and seller is such that the gross proceeds from
the sales are not indicative of the true value of the subject matter of the
sale, the Town Recorder shall prescribe uniform and equitable rules for
determining the value upon which such privilege tax shall be levied,
corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the sale of
similar products of like quality or character where no common interest exists
between the buyer and the seller, but the circumstances and conditions are
otherwise similar.
   (D)   Gross income included in the measure of the tax under §
34.30 of this chapter, except in the case of the production of natural gas,
shall neither be added nor deducted in computing the tax levied under the other
sections of this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   A person exercising any privilege taxable under §§
34.21 through
34.30 of this chapter and engaging in the business of selling his or her
natural resources or manufactured products at retail in this town shall be
required to make returns of the gross proceeds of such retail sales and pay the
tax imposed in §
34.23 of this chapter for the privilege of engaging in the business of selling
such natural resources or manufactured products at retail in this town.
      (2)   Any person exercising any privilege taxable under §§
34.21 through
34.30 of this chapter and engaging in the business of selling his or her
natural resources or manufactured products, or manufacturers, wholesalers or
jobbers, and in the case of limestone, sand, gravel or other mineral products,
to commercial consumers, shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in §
34.23 of this chapter for the privilege of selling such natural resource
products or manufactured products at wholesale.
   (F)   Manufacturers exercising any privilege taxable under §
34.22 of this chapter shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in §
34.23 of this chapter for the privilege of selling their manufactured products
for delivery outside of the town, but the gross income derived from the sale of
such manufactured products outside of the town shall be included in determining
the measure of the tax imposed on such manufacturers in §
34.23 of this chapter.
   (G)   A person exercising privileges taxable under the other sections of
this subchapter producing coal, oil, natural gas, minerals, timber or other
natural resource products the production of which is taxable under §
34.21 of this chapter, and using or consuming the same in his or her business,
shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of mining and producing coal,
oil, natural gas, minerals, timber or other natural resource products for sale,
profit or commercial use and shall be required to make returns on account of
the production of the business, showing the gross proceeds or equivalent in
accordance with uniform and equitable rules, responding as nearly as possible
to the gross proceeds from the sale of similar products of like quality or
character by other taxpayers, which rules the Town Recorder shall prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 5-404) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.19 TAX YEAR.
   The assessment of taxes herein made and the returns required therefor shall
be for the year ending on December 31. If the taxpayer, in exercising a
privilege taxable under this subchapter, keeps the books reflecting the same on
a basis other than such year, he or she may, with the consent of the Town
Recorder, make his or her annual returns and pay taxes for the year covering
his or her accounting period as shown by the method keeping his or her books.
(Prior Code, § 5-424) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.20 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   (A)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be in addition to all other
licenses and taxes levied by this code and other town ordinances as a condition
precedent to engaging in any business, trade and calling.
   (B)   A person exercising a privilege taxable under this subchapter, subject
to the payment of all licenses and charges which are a condition precedent to
exercising the privilege taxed, may exercise the current tax year upon the
condition that he or she shall pay the tax accruing under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-425) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.21 PRODUCTION OF COAL AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business of producing for sale, profit or commercial use any natural resource
products, the amount of such tax is to be equal to the value of the articles
produced as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer, except as hereinafter provided, multiplied by the respective rates as
follows.
 
Coal                                                    Two-tenths of 1%
Limestone or sandstone, quarried or mined               Six-tenths of 1%
Natural gas, in excess of the value of $1,250           1.2%
Oil                                                     Six-tenths of 1%
Other natural resource products                         Four-tenths of 1%
Sand, gravel or other mineral products, not quarried or 0.3%
mined
Timber                                                  Three-tenths of 1%
 
   (B)   The measure of this tax is the value of the entire production of this
town regardless of the place of sale or the fact that delivery may be made to
points outside of the town; provided, that for the purposes of the production
of oil classification and the production of natural gas classification as set
forth in this section, multiple co-owners of oil or natural gas in place,
lessees thereof or others being vested with title and ownership to part or all
of the oil and gas as personal property, immediately after severance,
extraction, reduction to possession and production, except royalty recipients,
in kind, shall be deemed to be a “group” or combination acting as a “unit” and
one “person” as defined in §
34.15 of this chapter, if not otherwise defined therein, whenever engaged in
the business of producing, or natural gas through common use by joint or
separately executed contracts, of the same independent contractor, driller or
operator’s services; and not withstanding the provisions of private contracts
for separate deposits of gross receipts in separate members’ accounts or for
members of such group or combination to take, in kind, any proportionate part
of such natural resources.
   (C)   Lessees, sublessees or other denominated lessees are considered to be
producers of all of the oil or natural gas produced regardless of any payment
in kind to lessors, sublessors or other denominated lessors of a part of such
natural resources as rents or royalties. Recipients of royalties or rents in
kind, in cash or otherwise, are taxable on their gross income pursuant to the
provisions of §
34.23 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-405) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.22 MANUFACTURING, COMPOUNDING OR PREPARING PRODUCTS; PROCESSING OF FOOD
EXCEPTED.
   (A)   (1)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this town in the
business of manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others, in whole or
part, any article or articles, substance or substances, commodity or
commodities or electric power produced by public utilities or others, and not
taxed under other provisions of this chapter, substances, commodities or
electric power manufactured, compounded or prepared for sale, as shown by the
gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the manufacturer or person
compounding or preparing the same, except as hereinafter provided, multiplied
by a rate of one and one-half-tenth of 1%.
      (2)   The measure of this tax is the value of the entire product
manufactured, compounded or prepared in this town for sale, profit or
commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or the fact the deliveries may
be made to points outside the town.
   (B)   However, the dressing and processing of food by a person, firm or
corporation, which food is to be sold on a wholesale basis by such person, firm
or corporation, shall not be considered as manufacturing or compounding, but
the sale of these products on a wholesale basis shall be subject to the same
tax as is imposed on the business of selling at wholesale as provided in §
34.23 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-406) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.23 BUSINESS OF SELLING TANGIBLE PROPERTY; SALES EXEMPT.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this town in the business of
selling any tangible property whatsoever, real or personal, including the sale
of food, and the services incident to the sale of food in hotels, restaurants,
cafeterias, confectioneries and other public eating houses, except sale by any
person engaging or continuing in the business of horticulture, agriculture or
grazing, or selling stock, bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, there is
likewise hereby levied, and shall be collected, a tax equivalent to one-tenth
of 1% of the gross income of the business, except that in the case of selling
at wholesale (or jobber), the tax shall be equal to three one-hundredths of 1%
of the gross income of the business.
(Prior Code, § 5-407) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.24 PUBLIC SERVICE OR UTILITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Upon any person engaging or continuing within this town in any public
service or utility business, except railroad, railroad car, express, pipeline,
telephone and telegraph companies, water carriers by steamboat or steamship and
motor vehicle carriers, there is likewise hereby levied and shall be collected
taxes on account of the business engaged in equal to the gross income of the
business multiplied by the respective rates as follows.
 
Type of Business         Rate
All other public service 1%
or utility businesses
                         4% on sales and demand charges for domestic purposes
Electric light and power and commercial lighting and 3% on sales and demand
companies                charges for all other purposes; except as to income
                         from municipally owned plants producing or purchasing
                         electricity and distributing the same
                         3% on the gross income from all sales to consumers
Natural gas companies    the amount of the tax paid by the taxpayers under §
                         34.21 of this chapter
Street and interurban    Five-tenths of 1%
electric railways
Toll bridge companies    3%
Water companies          2%; except as to income from municipally owned water
                         plants
 
   (B)   (1)   The measure of this tax shall not include gross income derived
from commerce between this state and other states of the United States or
between this town and other localities.
      (2)   The measure of the tax under this section shall include only gross
income received from the supplying of public services.
   (C)   The gross income of the taxpayer from any other activity shall be
included in the measure of the tax imposed upon the appropriate section or
sections of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-408) (Ord. passed 6-1-1993; Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.25 BUSINESS OF CONTRACTING.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this town in the business of
contracting, the tax shall be 2% of the gross income of the business.
(Prior Code, § 5-409) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.26 BUSINESS OF OPERATING AMUSEMENTS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this town the business of
operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville, amusement
park, dance hall, skating rink, race track, radio broadcasting station or any
other place at which amusements are offered to the public, the tax shall be
equal to one-tenth of 1% of the gross income of the business.
(Prior Code, § 5-410) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.27 SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY TAXED.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this town in any service a
business or calling not otherwise taxed under this subchapter, there is
likewise hereby levied and shall be collected a tax equal to two-tenths of 1%
of the gross income of any such business.
(Prior Code, § 5-411) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.28 BUSINESS OF FURNISHING PROPERTY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this city in the
business of furnishing any real or tangible personal property which has a tax
situs in this city, or any interest therein, for hire, loan, lease or
otherwise, the tax shall be two-tenths of 1% of the gross income of any such
activity.
   (B)   The term TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY, as used herein, shall not include
money or public securities.
(Prior Code, § 5-412) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.29 SMALL LOAN AND INDUSTRIAL LOAN BUSINESS.
   Every person engaging or continuing within this town in the business of
making loans of money, credit goods or things in action who, because of such
activity, is required under the provisions of W. Va. Code § 46A-4-102, to
obtain a license from the Commissioner of Banking of the state, and each and
every industrial loan company, shall be subject to the provisions of and shall
pay the taxes specified in §
34.30 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-413) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.30 BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within this town in the
business of a banking or financial business, the tax shall be equal to five-
tenths of 1% of the gross income received from interest, premiums, discounts,
dividends, service fees or charges, commissions, fines, rents from real or
tangible personal property, however denominated, royalties, charges for
bookkeeping or data processing, receipts from check sales, charges for fees and
receipts from the sale of tangible personal property; provided, that gross
income shall not include:
      (1)   Interest received on obligations of the United States, its agencies
and instrumentalities;
      (2)   Interest received on the obligations of this or any other state,
territory or possession of the United States or any political subdivision of
any of the foregoing or of the District of Columbia; or
      (3)   Interest received on investments or loans primarily secured by
first mortgages or deeds of trust on residential property occupied by non-
transients; provided further, that all interest derived on activities exempt
under this division (A)(3) shall be reported as to amounts on the return of a
person taxable under the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Persons taxed pursuant to the provisions of this section shall not be
taxed under §§
34.21 through
34.29, inclusive, of this chapter.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby finds and declares that it is the intent of
the Council to subject national banking associations and other financial
organizations to the tax imposed by this subchapter in accordance with the
authorization contained in 12 U.S.C. § 548.
(Prior Code, § 5-414) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.31 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be an exemption in every case of $5 in the amount of tax
computed under the provisions of this subchapter. A person exercising a
privilege taxable hereunder for a fractional part of a tax year shall be
entitled to an exemption of the sum bearing the proportion of $5 that the
period of time the privilege is exercised bears to the whole year. Only one
exemption shall be allowed to any one person, whether exercised one or more
privileges taxable hereunder.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Insurance companies which pay to the state a tax upon premiums;
provided, that such exemption shall not extend to that part of a gross income
of insurance companies which is received for the use of real property, other
than property in which any such company maintains its office or offices in this
town, whether such income be in the form of rentals or royalties;
      (2)   Nonprofit cemetery companies organized and operated for the
exclusive benefit of their members;
      (3)   Fraternal societies, organizations and associations organized and
operated for the exclusive benefit of their members and not for profit;
provided, that this exemption shall not extend to that part of the gross income
arising from the sale of alcoholic beverages, food and related services of such
fraternal societies, organizations and associations which are licensed as
private clubs under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 7;
      (4)   Corporations, associations and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious or charitable purposes;
      (5)   Production and credit associations organized under the provisions
of the federal Farm Credit Act of 1933, being 12 U.S.C. §§ 2000 et seq.; or
      (6)   Any credit union organized under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch.
31C or any other chapter of the state statutes; provided, that the exemptions
of this section shall to apply to corporations or cooperative associations
organized under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 19, Art. 4.
(Prior Code, § 5-415) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.32 TAX CREDIT FOR INDUSTRIAL EXPANSION; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be allowed as credit against the tax imposed by this
subchapter the amount determined under W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 13C, relating
to tax credit for industrial expansion.
   (B)   The Town Recorder shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary
to carry out the purposes of this section and the above-cited state law as it
may be applicable within this town.
(Prior Code, § 5-416) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.33 COMPUTATION OF TAX; REMITTANCE.
   (A)   The taxes levied hereunder shall be due and payable in quarterly
installments on or before the expiration of one month from the end of the
quarter in which they are accrued.
   (B)   The taxpayer shall, within one month from the expiration of each
quarter, make out an estimate of the tax for which he or she is liable for such
quarter and sign and mail it, together with the remittance, in the form
required by §
34.37 of this chapter, of the amount of tax to the office of the Town Recorder.
In estimating the amount of tax due for each quarter, the taxpayer may deduct
one- fourth of the tax credit for industrial expansion allowable for the
taxable year and one-fourth of the total exemption allowed for the year. When
the total tax for which any person is liable under this subchapter does not
exceed the sum of $100 in any year, the taxpayer may pay the same quarterly as
aforesaid or, with the consent in writing of the Town Recorder, at the end of
the month next following the close of the tax year.
   (C)   Any other provision of this section not withstanding, the Town
Recorder, if he or she deems it necessary to ensure payment of the tax, may
require return and payment under this section for periods of shorter duration
than quarter-year periods.
(Prior Code, § 5-417) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.34 RETURN AND REMITTANCE BY TAXPAYER.
   (A)   On or before the expiration of one month after the end of the tax
year, each taxpayer shall make a return for the entire year showing the gross
proceeds of sales or gross income of business, trade or calling and compute the
amount of tax chargeable against him or her in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter and deduct the amount of quarterly payments (as provided in
§ 34.33 of this chapter), if any, and transmit with his or her report a
remittance in the form required by §
34.23 of this chapter covering the residue of the tax chargeable against him or
her to the office of the Town Recorder.
   (B)   Such return shall be signed by the taxpayer, if made by an individual,
or by the president, vice president, secretary or treasurer of a corporation if
made on behalf of a corporation. If made on behalf of a partnership, joint
adventure, association, trust or any other group or combination acting as a
unit, any individual delegated by such firm, copartnership, joint venture,
association, trust or any other group or combination acting as a unit shall
sign the return on behalf of the taxpayer.
   (C)   The Town Recorder, for good cause shown, may extend the time for
making the annual return on the application of any taxpayer and grant such
reasonable additional time within which to make the same as may, by him or her,
be deemed advisable.
(Prior Code, § 5-418) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.35 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   (A)   If the taxpayer shall make any error in computing the tax assessment
against him or her, the Town Recorder shall correct such error or reassess the
proper amount of taxes and notify the taxpayer of his or her action by mailing
to him or her promptly a copy of the corrected assessment, and any additional
tax for which such taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within ten days after
the receipt of such statement.
   (B)   If the amount already paid exceeds that which should have been paid on
the basis of the tax so recomputed, the excess so paid shall be immediately
refunded to the taxpayer upon the requisition of the Town Recorder and shall be
payable out of any funds available for the purpose. The taxpayer may, at his or
her election, apply an overpayment credit subsequently accruing hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-419) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.36 FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; ASSESSMENT BY RECORDER WHEN BELIEVED DEFICIENT.
   (A)   If any person shall fail or refuse to make a return, either in whole
or in part, or if the Town Recorder has reasonable grounds to believe that any
return is so deficient as not to form the basis of a satisfactory assessment of
the tax, he or she may proceed as he or she deems it best to obtain information
on which to base the assessment of the tax. The Town Recorder may, in person or
by duly appointed agent, make examination of the books, records and papers, and
audit the accounts of such person, and may take the evidence, on oath, of any
person whom he or she may believe shall be in possession of any relevant
information.
   (B)   As soon as possible after procuring such information as the Town
Recorder may be able to obtain as to any person failing or refusing to make a
return, he or she shall proceed to assess the tax and shall notify the person
assessed of the amount of the tax. The assessment of the tax by the Town
Recorder shall be final as to any person who refused to make a return.
(Prior Code, § 5-420) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.37 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If the Town Recorder believes that the collection of any tax which he
or she is required to administer will be jeopardized by delay, he or she shall
thereupon make an assessment of the tax immediately due and payable. Unless the
taxpayer against who a jeopardy assessment is made petitions for reassessment
within 20 days after the service of notice of the jeopardy assessment, such an
assessment becomes final.
   (B)   A petition for reassessment by a person against whom a jeopardy
assessment has been made must be accompanied by such security as the Town
Recorder may deem necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-421) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.38 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; PETITION FOR REASSESSMENT; HEARING.
   (A)   The Town Recorder shall give to the taxpayer written notice of any
assessment made pursuant to this subchapter. Unless the taxpayer to whom a
notice of assessment is directed shall, within 30 days after thereof (except in
the case of jeopardy assessments), either personally or by certified mail file
with the Town Recorder a petition in writing, verified under oath by said
taxpayer or his or her duly appointed agent having knowledge of the facts,
setting forth with definiteness and particularity the items of the assessment
objected to, together with the reason for such objections, such assessment
shall become and be deemed conclusive and the amount thereof shall be payable
at the end of the 30-day period.
   (B)   In every case where a petition for reassessment as described in
division (A) above is filed, the Town Recorder shall assign the time and place
for the hearing thereof and shall notify the petitioner of such hearing by
written notice at least 20 days in advance thereof, and such hearing shall be
held within 60 days from the filing of the petition for reassessment unless
continued by agreement or by the Town Recorder for good cause.
   (C)   The hearing shall be informal and may be conducted by an examiner
designated by the Town Recorder. At such hearing, evidence may be offered to
support the assessment or to prove that it is incorrect. After such hearing,
the Town Recorder shall, within a reasonable time, give notice in writing of
the decision.
   (D)   Unless an appeal is taken within 30 days from service of this notice,
the Town Recorder’s decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 5-422) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.39 APPEAL, CORRECTION OF ASSESSMENTS; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   If any person, having made the return and paid the tax as provided by
this subchapter, feels aggrieved by the assessment so made upon him or her for
any year by the Town Recorder, he or she may apply to the Town Council by
petition, in writing, within 30 days after notice is mailed to him or her by
the Town Recorder, for a hearing and correction of the amount of the tax so
assessed upon him or her by the Town Recorder, in which petition shall be set
forth the reasons why such hearing should be granted and the amount such tax
should be reduced. The Town Council shall promptly consider such petition and
may grant such hearing or deny it.
   (B)   If denied, the petitioner shall be forthwith notified thereof; if
granted, the Town Council shall notify the petitioner of the time and place
fixed for such hearing. After such hearing, the Council may make such order in
the matter as may appear to it just and lawful and shall furnish a copy of such
order to the petitioner. Any person improperly charged with any tax required to
be paid by him or her may recover the amount so paid, together with interest,
in any proper action or suit against the town as may be authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-423) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.40 PAYMENT.
   Every remittance of taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be made by bank
draft, certified check, money order or certificate of deposit to the Town
Recorder, who shall issue his or her receipt therefor to the taxpayer and pay
the money into the Town Treasury, to be kept and accounted for as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 5-426) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.41 LIEN OF TAX DUE AND UNPAID.
   A tax due and unpaid under this subchapter shall be a debt to the town. It
shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien upon the
property of the taxpayer; provided, that no such tax lien shall be enforceable
against a purchaser (including lien creditor) for valuable consideration
without notice unless docketed in the office of the county court of such
county.
(Prior Code, § 5-427) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.42 ENFORCEMENT OF COLLECTION.
   The town may use any means for the collection of the taxes imposed by this
subchapter as are provided by law for the enforcement and collection of similar
taxes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-428) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.43 PAYMENT WHEN PERSON SELLS OUT OR QUITS BUSINESS; LIEN LIABILITY OF
SUCCESSOR.
   (A)   Any person exercising any privilege taxable under this subchapter who
shall sell out his or her business or stock of goods, or shall cease doing
business, shall file a return prescribed by §
34.34 of this chapter and remit the entire tax that may be chargeable against
him or her because of all business done within 30 days after selling out his or
her business or stock of goods or ceasing to do such business.
   (B)   The successor in business of any such person shall withhold so much of
the purchase money as will satisfy the taxes and penalty which may be due until
the former owner shall produce a receipt from the Town Recorder evidencing the
payment of such taxes and penalty. If the purchase of a business or stock of
goods shall fail to withhold purchase money as above provided and the taxes and
penalty shall remain unpaid after expiration of the 30-day period allowed for
payment thereof, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of all
such taxes and penalty, and the same shall be recoverable by the Town Recorder
as provided by §
34.42 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-429) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.44 RECORDING OF TAX LIENS.
   The Town Recorder, for the more effective collection of the tax, may file
with the clerk of the appropriate county court a certified copy of an
assessment of taxes under this subchapter for recordation. Upon payment of the
taxes delinquent under this subchapter, the lien of which shall have been
recorded, the Town Recorder shall certify in duplicate the fact and amount of
payment and the balance due, if any, and shall forward the certifications, one
to the taxpayer and one to the clerk of the county court of the county in which
such lien has been recorded. From the date that such certification is admitted
to record, the land of the taxpayer in the town shall be free from any lien for
taxes under this subchapter accrued to the date that the certification was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-430) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.45 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT; SUITE TO ENFORCE LIEN.
   The Town Recorder may distrain upon any goods, chattels or intangibles
represented by negotiable evidences of indebtedness of any taxpayer delinquent
under this subchapter for the amount of all taxes and penalties accrued and
unpaid hereunder. The lien created by this subchapter on real estate may be
enforced by suit in equity and other means provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-431) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 34.46 OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to make any return required to
be made by §§
34.15 through
34.47 of this chapter, or to make false or fraudulent return or false statement
in any return with intent to defraud the town or to evade the payment of the
tax, or any part thereof, implied by §§
34.15 through
34.47; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade the
payment of the tax, or any part thereof, imposed by §§
34.15 through
34.47; or for the president, vice president, secretary or treasurer of any
corporation to make or permit to be made for any corporation or association any
false return or any false statement in any return required in §§
34.15 through
34.47, with the intent to evade the payment of any tax hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-432) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.47 TOWN COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO REVOKE LICENSES.
   In addition to the penalties provided in §
34.99 of this chapter, the failure of the taxpayer to make any required return
to pay the tax imposed upon him or her by this subchapter, either or both,
within five days following the prescribed date for the filing of such return or
the payment of such tax shall constitute good cause for the Town Council to
revoke or to refuse to renew, either or both, the municipal business license of
such taxpayer to engage in the business taxed under this subchapter, as with
any other town business license held by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-433) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   If any taxpayer fails to make the return required by §
34.40 of this chapter, or makes his or her return but fails to remit, in whole
or in part, the proper amount of tax, there shall be added to the amount of tax
unpaid a penalty in the amount of 5% of the tax for the first month and 1% for
each succeeding month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency; provided, that if
such failure is due to reasonable cause, the Town Recorder may waive or remit,
in whole or in part, these penalties.
      (2)   If the failure to pay is due to fraud or intent to evade §§
34.15 through
34.47 of this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
there shall be added an additional penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties.
      (3)   The penalties so added shall be collected at the same time and in
the same manner and as a part of the tax.
(Prior Code, § 5-426)
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
34.46 of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$1,000 or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days, or punished by both fine and
imprisonment, at the discretion of the Court, within the limits aforesaid. Any
corporation for which a false return or a return containing a false statement,
as aforesaid, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 5-432)
(Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Outgoing officers to turn over town property
   
35.02   Reward for providing evidence
   
35.03   Acceptance of forfeiture for failure to appear
9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping Program
   
35.15   Scope
   
35.16   Participation in state addressing and mapping project
   
35.17   County 9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping Ordinance applies
   
35.18   Addressing Coordinator; duties
   
35.19   Mapping Coordinator; duties
   
35.20   Effect on existing addresses
   
35.21   Noncompliance
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 OUTGOING OFFICERS TO TURN OVER TOWN PROPERTY.
   At the expiration or termination of the term of office of any member of the
municipal authorities or other person who has custody or care of any records,
books, funds or other property belonging to the town, outgoing officers are
required to turn over the town’s property.
(Prior Code, § 1-604) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.02 REWARD FOR PROVIDING EVIDENCE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to offer a reward in the name of the town,
not to exceed $50, to anyone who shall give or furnish evidence which shall
lead to the conviction of any person who has violated any statute of the state
or any ordinance of the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-602)
§ 35.03 ACCEPTANCE OF FORFEITURE FOR FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   The Mayor and the Recorder are hereby authorized to accept a forfeit of such
amount as they deem sufficient from any person for his or her appearance before
the Mayor for a hearing or trial, and upon failure of the person to so appear,
forfeit and pay over the same to the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
9-1-1 ADDRESSING AND MAPPING PROGRAM
§ 35.15 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to all areas of the town, except as
may be expressly set forth below.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
§ 35.16 PARTICIPATION IN STATE ADDRESSING AND MAPPING PROJECT.
   Pursuant to the emergency rules of the state’s Statewide Addressing and
Mapping Board on file with the office of the Secretary of State, 169 CSR 2, the
town hereby elects to participate in the state’s Statewide Addressing and
Mapping Project, except as to any exceptions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
§ 35.17 COUNTY 9-1-1 ADDRESSING AND MAPPING ORDINANCE APPLIES.
   All provisions of the 9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping Ordinance of the County
Commission dated September 23, 2004, including the penalties for noncompliance,
hereby apply within the town as if fully set forth herein, except as set forth
in §§
35.20 and
35.21 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
§ 35.18 ADDRESSING COORDINATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Addressing Coordinator for the town shall cooperate with the
County Addressing Coordinator, the state’s Statewide Mapping and Addressing
Board, the Board’s Project Manager, the County 9-1-1 Director, the state’s
Enhanced 9-1-1 Council, the County Assessor’s office, municipal corporations
within the county, the United States Postal Service and other interested
agencies and persons in order to accomplish, within the town, town-type
addressing and other systems essential to the prompt and accurate dispatch of
emergency service providers, or other emergency services or 9-1-1 purposes, and
for such other goals of the state’s Statewide Addressing and Mapping Project;
provided, however, that the Addressing Coordinator shall coordinate principally
through the County Addressing Coordinator for the purposes of the
implementation of the state’s Statewide Addressing and Mapping Project within
the town.
   (B)   The Addressing Coordinator may not take any official action not
expressly authorized in this subchapter, or in the 9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping
Ordinance of the county dated September 23, 2004, without the approval of the
Town Council.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
§ 35.19 MAPPING COORDINATOR; DUTIES.
   The County Mapping Coordinator shall act as the Mapping Coordinator for the
town. The Mapping Coordinator may not, however, take any official action not
expressly authorized in this subchapter, or in the 9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping
Ordinance of the county dated September 23, 2004, without the approval of the
Town Council.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
§ 35.20 EFFECT ON EXISTING ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter affects existing town-type addresses which
are satisfactory for 9-1-1 and emergency services purposes. To the extent that
any existing addresses are inconsistent with the Statewide Addressing and
Mapping Project or otherwise do not comply with the rules and regulations of
the state’s Statewide Addressing and Mapping Board, the County Addressing
Coordinator shall recommend changes to the town to aid in the accomplishment of
the goals of the state’s Statewide Addressing and Mapping Project and his or
her duties as set forth in the county’s 9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping Ordinance,
§ 3.
   (B)   However, nothing herein shall be construed so as to permit the County
Addressing Coordinator to take any official action with respect to any such
inconsistencies without the express authorization of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
§ 35.21 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Section 10.1 of the county’s 9-1-1 Addressing and Mapping Ordinance shall
apply, except that after 30 days of noncompliance from the time of written
notification, the violation of any section of this subchapter shall be deemed a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to comply with, or who violates the
provisions of, §
35.01 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, be punished by a fine not
to exceed $100.
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
   (C)   The town may issue an order of injunctive relief against any person
violating §§
35.15 through
35.21 of this chapter, as set out in §
35.21 of this chapter, requiring compliance with the same and assessing as a
fine for such the costs of any such injunctive proceedings, including any court
costs, legal fees and any monetary fine between $25 and $500 for each day that
said violation continues, each violation constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2005)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Restrictions on Personnel Generally
   
36.01   Business dealings
   
36.02   Use of position
   
36.03   Acceptance of gratuities
   
36.04   Outside employment
   
36.05   Political activity
   
36.06   Strikes and unions
Social Security
   
36.20   Policy and purpose
   
36.21   Necessary agreements executed by Mayor
   
36.22   Withholdings from salaries and wages
   
36.23   Appropriations for employer’s contributions
   
36.24   Records and reports to be made
Vacation and Sick Leave
   
36.35   Applicability
   
36.36   Vacation leave
   
36.37   Sick leave
   
36.38   Leave records
 
   
36.99   Penalty
RESTRICTIONS ON PERSONNEL GENERALLY
§ 36.01 BUSINESS DEALINGS.
   Except for the receipt of such compensation as may be lawfully provided for
the performance of his or her municipal duties, it shall be unlawful for any
municipal officer or employee to be privately interested in, or to profit
directly or indirectly from, business dealings with the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-201) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.02 USE OF POSITION.
   No municipal officer or employee shall make or attempt to make private
purchases, for cash or otherwise, in the name of the municipality, nor shall he
or she otherwise use or attempt to use his or her position to secure
unwarranted privileges or exemptions for himself, herself or others.
(Prior Code, § 1-206) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.03 ACCEPTANCE OF GRATUITIES.
   No municipal officer or employee shall accept any money or other
consideration or favor from anyone other than the municipality for the
performance of an act which he or she would be required or expected to perform
in the regular course of his or her duties; nor shall any officer or employee
accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity or favor of any kind which
might reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to influence his or her actions
with respect to town business.
(Prior Code, § 1-202) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.04 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   No full-time officer or employee of the town shall accept any outside
employment without written authorization from the Mayor. The Mayor shall not
grant such authorization if the work is likely to interfere with the
satisfactory performance of the officer’s or employee’s duties, or be
incompatible with his or her municipal employment, or is likely to cast
discredit upon or create embarrassment for the town.
(Prior Code, § 1-203) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.05 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   Municipal officers and employees may individually exercise their right to
vote and privately express their political views as citizens. No municipal
officer or employee shall solicit political campaign contributions or engage in
or actively participate in any political campaign. These restrictions shall not
apply to elective officials.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.06 STRIKES AND UNIONS.
   No municipal officer or employee shall participate in any strike against the
municipality, nor shall he or she join, be a member of or solicit any other
municipal officer or employee to join any labor union which authorizes the use
of strikes by government employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-207) Penalty, see §
36.99
SOCIAL SECURITY
§ 36.20 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of this municipality to
provide for all eligible employees and officials of the municipality, whether
employed in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, the
benefits of the system of federal old-age and survivors insurance. In pursuance
of said policy, and for that purpose, the municipality shall take such action
as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
§ 36.21 NECESSARY AGREEMENTS EXECUTED BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to execute all the necessary
agreements and amendments thereto with the state executive direction of old-age
insurance, as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and officials as
provided in §
36.20 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1102)
§ 36.22 WITHHOLDINGS FROM SALARIES AND WAGES.
   Withholdings from the salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purpose provided in §
36.20 of this chapter are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at
such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations and shall be paid over to the state or federal agency designated by
said laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103)
§ 36.23 APPROPRIATIONS FOR EMPLOYER’S CONTRIBUTIONS.
   There shall be appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for
employer’s contributions, and the same shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
§ 36.24 RECORDS AND REPORTS TO BE MADE.
   The municipality shall keep such records and make such reports as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-1105)
VACATION AND SICK LEAVE
§ 36.35 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all full-time (those working 40 hours per
week) municipal officers and employees, except those operating in the
jurisdiction of a school, utility or other separate board or commission.
(Prior Code, § 1-1301)
§ 36.36 VACATION LEAVE.
   All officers and employees shall be given one week of vacation leave with
pay for each full calendar year of employment. Such vacation leave shall be
taken at a time approved by the Mayor or such other officer as he or she may
designate. At no time shall a person’s total credit for vacation leave exceed
three weeks.
(Prior Code, § 1-1302)
§ 36.37 SICK LEAVE.
   All officers and employees shall be given a credit of one working day of
sick leave with pay for each full calendar month of employment. Sick leave
shall be taken only when approved by the Mayor or by such other officer as he
or she may designate. Sick leave up to the number of days accrued shall be
approved for all officers and employees whose absence from duty is due to
illness, bodily injury, exposure to contagious disease or death in the
immediate family of the officer or employee. However, the Mayor may, in his or
her discretion, require doctor’s certificates or other satisfactory evidence
that absences are properly chargeable as sick leave. The maximum credit for
accrued sick leave under the provisions of this section shall be 12 days.
(Prior Code, § 1-1303)
§ 36.38 LEAVE RECORDS.
   The Mayor shall cause to be kept, for each officer and employee, a record
currently up to date at all times showing credits earned and sick leave taken
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-1304)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   A violation of any section of §§
36.01 through
36.06 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for
each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Premises to be kept clean
   
50.03   Disposal at undesignated sites
   
50.04   Storage of refuse
   
50.05   Location of containers
   
50.06   Disturbing containers
   
50.07   Collection of refuse
   
50.08   Collection vehicles
   
50.09   Rates for collection
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage, rubbish and refuse as those terms are generally
defined, except that dead animals and fowls, body wastes, hot ashes, rocks,
concrete, bricks and similar materials are expressly excluded therefrom and
shall not be stored therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 50.02 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   All persons within the municipality are hereby required to keep their
premises in a clean and sanitary condition, free from accumulations of refuse,
except when stored as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL AT UNDESIGNATED SITES.
   The disposal of refuse in any quantity by any person in any place, public or
private, other than at the site or sites designated for refuse disposal by the
governing body is expressly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 STORAGE OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Each owner, occupant or other responsible person using or occupying
any building or other premises within this municipality where refuse
accumulates or is likely to accumulate shall provide and keep covered an
adequate number of metal refuse containers.
      (1)   The refuse containers shall each have a capacity of not less than
20 nor more than 32 gallons, except that this maximum capacity shall not apply
to larger containers which the municipality handles mechanically.
      (2)   Furthermore, except for containers which the municipality handles
mechanically, the combined weight of any refuse container and its contents
shall not exceed 75 pounds.
   (B)   No refuse shall be placed in a refuse container until such refuse has
been drained of all free liquids.
   (C)   Tree trimmings, hedge clippings and similar materials shall be cut to
a length not to exceed four feet and shall be securely tied in individual
bundles weighing not more than 75 pounds each, and being not more than two feet
thick, before being deposited for collection.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Where alleys are used by the municipal refuse collectors, containers
shall be placed on or within six feet of the alley line in such a position so
as not to intrude upon the traveled portion of the alley. Where streets are
used by the municipal refuse collectors, containers shall be placed adjacent to
and back of the curb, or adjacent to and back of the ditch or street line if
there be no curb, at such times as shall be scheduled by the municipality for
the collection of refuse therefrom.
   (B)   As soon as practical after such containers have been emptied, they
shall be removed by the owner within, or to the rear of, his or her premises
and away from the street line until the next scheduled time for collection.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 DISTURBING CONTAINERS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, ruffle, rifle, pilfer, dig into, turn
over or in any other manner disturb or use any refuse container belonging to
another. This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of public
refuse containers for their intended purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 COLLECTION OF REFUSE.
   All refuse accumulated within the corporate limits shall be collected,
conveyed and disposed of under the supervision of such officer as the governing
body shall designate. Collections shall be made regularly in accordance with an
announced schedule.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
§ 50.08 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   The collection of refuse shall be by means of vehicles with beds constructed
of impervious materials which are easily cleanable and so constructed that
there will be no leakage of liquids draining from the refuse onto the streets
and alleys. Furthermore, all refuse collection vehicles shall utilize closed
beds or such coverings as will effectively prevent the scattering of refuse
over the streets or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 RATES FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Residential rates shall be as follows: $10 per month.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial or institutional rates shall be as follows: $20
per month.
(Ord. passed 3-6-1991)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Sanitary sewage disposal facilities; when required
   
51.02   Responsibility for facility installation and maintenance
   
51.03   Septic tanks; when required
   
51.04   Sewage and surface water draining on property of another
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Any building or structure wherein people live, are employed or congregate
must be equipped with such sanitary facilities for sewage disposal as are
prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-201) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 RESPONSIBILITY FOR FACILITY INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any property required by this chapter to have sanitary
facilities for sewage disposal shall be responsible for the proper installation
of such facilities.
   (B)   The occupant or person having immediate use and control of such
property shall be responsible for maintaining the facilities in a sanitary and
usable condition unless, by contractual arrangement between the parties, the
owner expressly agrees to retain such responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 51.03 SEPTIC TANKS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   As this municipality, at this time of updating the town code, does not
have a sewage system, all new buildings constructed and new facilities added to
old structures hereinafter will be required to have a septic tank approved by
the County Health Department or to run sewage to existing sewage lines.
   (B)   Buildings and structures located outside the fire limits but on land
abutting on a street or other public way with no sanitary sewer must be
equipped with sanitary sewage disposal facilities connected to an approved
septic tank.
(Prior Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SEWAGE AND SURFACE WATER DRAINING ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   No person shall permit any sewage or surface water to drain or run off from
his or her property onto the property of any other person within the corporate
limits of the town, or dig, alter or change any ditch, drain or gully, or lay
any pipe line or lines, or construct any dam or other obstruction, so as to
cause sewage or surface drainage to be diverted to or lead onto the property of
any other person without his or her consent; excepted, however, that such
drainage were already existing water courses, ditches or drains or pipe lines,
where not obnoxious or detrimental to public health. Nothing in this chapter,
however, shall be construed so as to prevent the property owners concerned from
entering into a contract or agreement between themselves about the use of
property for the purpose of drainage or sewage disposal.
(Prior Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of an offense against the town and, upon conviction before the Town Judge
thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Connections, intakes and bypasses regulated
   
52.03   Statement required
   
52.04   Compliance; violations
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be
secured from a source other than that normally used.
   BYPASS. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the public water
supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain conduit, pool, storage
reservoir or other device which normally contains sewage or other waste or
liquid which would be capable of importing contamination to the public water
supply.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is
connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either
inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of
water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation
of valves, or because of ineffective check or back-pressure valves, or because
of any other arrangements.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including an individual
firm or association, and any municipal or private corporation organized or
existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The waterworks system furnishing water to the town for
general use, and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the
state’s Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 52.02 CONNECTIONS, INTAKES AND BYPASSES REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, bypass or interconnection to be made, or allow one to exist, for any
purpose whatsoever unless the construction and operation of the same have been
approved by the state’s Department of Health and the operation of such cross-
connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection is at all times under
the direct supervision of the Superintendent of the waterworks of this
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   Any person whose premises are supplied with water from the public water
supply, and who also has on the same premises a separate source of water
supply, or stores water in an uncovered or unsanitary storage reservoir from
which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping system, shall
file with the Superintendent of the waterworks a statement of the nonexistence
of unapproved or unauthorized cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses or
interconnections, and an agreement that such will be permitted upon the
premises until the construction and operation of the same have received the
approval of the state’s Department of Health and the operation and maintenance
of the same have been placed under the direct supervision of the Superintendent
of the waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 7-303)
§ 52.04 COMPLIANCE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who now has cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, bypasses
or interconnections in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
allowed a reasonable time within which to comply with such provisions.
   (B)   After a thorough investigation of existing conditions and an appraisal
of the time required to complete the work, the amount of time to be allowed
shall be designated by the Superintendent of the waterworks. In addition to, or
in lieu of, any fines and penalties that may be judicially assessed for
violations of this chapter, the Superintendent of the waterworks shall
discontinue the public water supply service at any premises upon which there is
found to be a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, bypass or interconnection,
and services shall not be restored until such cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, bypass or interconnection has been discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 7-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Scope of applicability
   
70.03   Enforcement
   
70.04   Public officers and employees
   
70.05   Persons engaged in highway surface work
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.07   Persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.08   No interference with rights of owners of real property
Driver and Passenger Requirements
   
70.20   Obstructing driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
70.21   Passengers in seat with operator
   
70.22   Passengers on running boards
   
70.23   Following authorized emergency vehicles; parking within block
Vehicle and Equipment Requirements
   
70.35   Unsafe or improperly equipped vehicles; additional parts and
accessories
   
70.36   Application to farm and road equipment
   
70.37   Lamp lighting requirements
   
70.38   Visibility distance and mounted height of lamps
   
70.39   Head lamps
   
70.40   Tail lamps
   
70.41   Child passenger safety device requirements; exception
Electronic Communication Device Use
   
70.55   Definitions
   
70.56   Use without handheld features prohibited
   
70.57   Violation an offense
   
70.58   Points on driver’s record for violations
   
70.59   Exceptions
   
70.60   Posting of signs giving notice
   
70.61   Seizure of device by enforcement agency not authorized
   
70.62   Liability coverage not affected by violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of a fire department, duly chartered
rescue squad, police department, ambulance service, state, county or municipal
agency and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers, flag car
services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles, service
vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow removal
equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of members of
ambulance services and Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue
squads and all other EMERGENCY VEHICLES as are designated by the agency
responsible for the operation and control of these persons or organizations.
“Class A vehicles” are as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1. “Agency
authorization” and “emergency equipment” are defined in W. Va. Code § 17C-15-
26. Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle
permits may promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of
permits for EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   AUTOCYCLE. A fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that is equipped with
safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror, automotive seating, a
steering wheel and equipment otherwise required on a motorcycle and which has
not more than three wheels in contact with the roadway at any one time.
   AXLE GROUP. An assemblage of two or more consecutive axles considered
together in determining their combined load effect on a bridge or pavement
structure. The determination of what constitutes an AXLE GROUP may include any
or all the axles on the vehicle or combination of vehicles.
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels, either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
   CONNECTING MECHANISM. An arrangement of parts interconnecting two or more
consecutive axles to the frame of a vehicle in such a manner so as to equalize
the load between axles.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such a
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any substance classified under the provisions of W.
Va. Code §§ 60A-1-101 through 60A-11-6, the Uniform Controlled Substances Act,
and includes all substances listed in W. Va. Code §§ 60A-2-203 through 60A-2-
212, as revised.
   CROSSWALK. Includes:
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DIGGER OR DERRICK LINE TRUCK. A truck which is specifically designed and
used for transporting and setting utility poles.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as set forth in W. Va. Code § 60A-1-101, the
Uniform Controlled Substances Act, that when taken into the human body can
impair the ability of a person to operate a vehicle safely and in compliance
with traffic regulations and the laws of the road.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE or EPAMD. A self-balancing, two
non-tandem-wheeled device designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with an average power of 750 watts (one horsepower),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
   INTERSECTION. Includes:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles,
or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at
any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal and other local board or body
having authority to enact laws relating to traffic under the Constitution and
laws of this state.
   METAL TIRE. Every tire the surface of which is in contact with the highway
is wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, unless otherwise specified in
this Traffic Code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two-brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or
rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five-brake horsepower.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or, in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this code.
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
   PASSENGER VAN. Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business
or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of
children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus or school bus. PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to,
vehicles used by day care centers, after-school centers and nursery schools;
provided, that the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard to the
manner in which it is used.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in said area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation or athletic events while
attending school.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, means any STOPPING or STANDING
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for the purposes of vehicular travel.
   TANDEM AXLE. Any two or more consecutive axles whose centers are more than
40 inches but not more than 96 inches apart and are individually attached to or
articulated from a common attachment to the vehicle, including a connecting
mechanism designed to equalize the load between axles.
   TANDEM AXLE WEIGHT. The total weight transmitted to the road by two or more
consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel transverse
planes spaced more than 40 inches, and not more than 96 inches apart, extending
the full width of the vehicle.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in
this code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purposes of travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or non-motorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-1-2 through 17C-1-20, 17C-1-24,
17C-1-25, 17C-1-26, 17C-1-29 through 17C-1-44, 17C-1-50 through 17C-1-60 and
17C-1-62 through17C-1-69
§ 70.02 SCOPE OF APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways, as
defined in W. Va. Code § 17B-1-1, within the town, except where a different
place is specifically referred to in a given section.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-1
§ 70.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order or
direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by law
with the authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-3
§ 70.04 PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated
by the United States, this state or any county, city, town, district or any
other political subdivision of the state, except as provided in this Traffic
Code and subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this Traffic
Code with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4
§ 70.05 PERSONS ENGAGED IN HIGHWAY SURFACE WORK.
   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Traffic Code
shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while
actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway but shall apply to such
persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limit so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement of
turning in specified directions.
   (C)   (1)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any said vehicle, while in motion, sounds
an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably
necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing
lamp, as authorized by W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26, which is visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such
vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a warning light visible from in
front of the vehicle.
      (2)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-5
§ 70.07 PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Traffic Code, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-6
§ 70.08 NO INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this Traffic Code shall be construed to prevent the owner of real
property used by the public for the purposes of vehicular travel, by permission
of the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this Traffic Code, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such
owner.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-2-9
DRIVER AND PASSENGER REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.20 OBSTRUCTING DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   Drivers. No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to
interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   Passengers. No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in such
position as to interfere with the driver’s or operator’s view ahead or to the
sides, or to interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of
the vehicle or streetcar.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-4
§ 70.21 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons, including the operator, shall ride or be
permitted by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor
vehicle while said motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways
of this state; provided, that the limitation of this section shall not apply to
a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the occupancy of
four persons, including the operator, and so designated on the registration
card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-5
§ 70.22 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   No passenger shall ride, nor shall the operator permit any passenger to
ride, on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being
operated on the streets or highways of this state.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-6
§ 70.23 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PARKING WITHIN BLOCK.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, may not
follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm
or other emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle
within the block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm or other emergency.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 70.35 UNSAFE OR IMPROPERLY EQUIPPED VEHICLES; ADDITIONAL PARTS AND
ACCESSORIES.
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to drive or move, or for the owner
to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle
or combination of vehicles which is in such an unsafe condition so as to
endanger any person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this subchapter, or which is equipped in any manner
in violation of this subchapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required under this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1
§ 70.36 APPLICATION TO FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter, with respect to equipment on vehicles,
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors, except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor that is
equipped with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
70.37 of this chapter display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or
single-beam head lamps meeting the requirements of §
70.37 of this chapter and W. Va. Code §§ 17C-15-20 and 17C-15-22, respectively.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1
§ 70.37 LAMP LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements based on vehicle type.
      (1)   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle or moped operated upon a highway within this state at any time from
sunset to sunrise, or during fog, smoke, rain or other unfavorable atmospheric
conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500
feet ahead, shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating devices as
hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles, subject to
exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in W. Va. Code §
17C-15-15(c).
      (2)   Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the highway.
   (B)   LEDS and the like. Lighted lamps and other lighting devices that
consist of multiple light- emitting diodes (LEDs) or other illuminating
components that function as a single lighting unit are deemed to be functional
so long as at least 66% of the LEDs or other illuminating components are
functional; provided, that the lighted lamps or lighting devices must still
project sufficient illumination to satisfy all other requirements contained in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory references:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-2
§ 70.38 VISIBILITY DISTANCE AND MOUNTED HEIGHT OF LAMPS.
   (A)   Visibility distance. Whenever a requirement is herein declared as to
the distance from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible
or within which such lamps or devices shall be visible, said provisions shall
apply during the times stated in §
70.37 of this chapter in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a
straight, level, unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Mounted height of lamps. Whenever a requirement is herein declared as
to the mounted height of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of
such lamp or device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such
vehicle is without a load.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3
§ 70.39 HEAD LAMPS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, shall be equipped with at least two head lamps, with at least one on
each side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with
the requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps, which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this subchapter.
    (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches, to
be measured as set forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-4
§ 70.40 TAIL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as herein
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; provided, that in the case of a train of vehicles, only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches, to be measured as set forth in W.
Va. Code § 17C-15-3(b).
   (C)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-5
§ 70.41 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICE REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van or pickup truck, other than one operated for hire,
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or highway
of this state, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards. Provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   A violation of this section does not by virtue of the violation
constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative
negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (C)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE USE
§ 70.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CELL PHONE. A cellular, analog, wireless or digital telephone.
   DRIVING or OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE. Operating a motor vehicle with the
motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a
traffic-control device or other momentary delays, but does not include
operating a motor vehicle after the driver has moved the vehicle to the side
of, or off, a highway and halted in a location where the vehicle can safely
remain stationary.
   ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE.
      (1)   A cellular telephone, personal digital assistant, electronic device
with mobile data access, laptop computer, pager, broadband personal
communication device, two-way messaging device, electronic game or portable
computing device.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, an ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION
DEVICE does not include:
         (a)   Voice radios, mobile radios, land mobile radios, commercial
mobile radios or two-way radios with the capability to transmit and receive
voice transmissions utilizing a push-to-talk or press-to-transmit function; or
         (b)   Other voice radios used by law enforcement officers, emergency
services providers, employees or agents of public safety organizations, first
responders, Amateur Radio Operators (HAM) licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission and school bus operators.
   ENGAGING IN A CALL. When a person talks into or listens on an electronic
communication device, but shall not include when a person dials or enters a
phone number on a push-pad or screen to initiate the call.
   HANDS-FREE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic communication
device that has an internal feature or function, or that is equipped with an
attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of such electronic
communication device, by which a user engages in a call without the use of
either hand or both hands.
   HANDS-FREE EQUIPMENT. The internal feature or function of a hands-free
electronic communication device or the attachment or addition to a hands-free
electronic communication device by which a user may engage in a call or text
without the use of either hand or both hands.
   TEXTING.
      (1)   Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic communication device, and includes, but is not limited to, short
message service, emailing, instant messaging, a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry, for present or future communication.
      (2)   For the purposes of this subchapter, TEXTING does not include the
following actions:
         (a)   Reading, selecting or entering a telephone number, an extension
number or voicemail retrieval code or command into an electronic device by
pressing the device in order to initiate or receive a phone call or using voice
commands to initiate or receive a telephone call;
         (b)   Inputting, selecting or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         (c)   Using devices capable of performing multiple functions,
including fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smartphones, citizens
band radios or music players, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited in
this subchapter.
   USING A CELL PHONE OR OTHER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. Holding in a
person’s hand or hands an electronic communication device while:
      (1)   Viewing or transmitting images or data;
      (2)   Playing games;
      (3)   Engaging in a call; or
      (4)   Composing, sending, reading, viewing, accessing, browsing,
transmitting, saving or retrieving email, text messages or other electronic
data.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.56 USE WITHOUT HANDHELD FEATURES PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided in §
70.55 of this chapter, a person may not drive or operate a motor vehicle on a
public street or highway while texting or using a cell phone or other
electronic communication device unless the use is accomplished by hands-free
equipment.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.57 VIOLATION AN OFFENSE.
   (A)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway
while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense.
   (B)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway
while using a cell phone or other electronic communication device without
hands-free equipment shall be enforced as a primary offense for the purposes of
citation.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.58 POINTS ON DRIVER’S RECORD FOR VIOLATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, points may
not be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of Motor
Vehicles as a result of a violation of this subchapter, except for the third
and subsequent convictions of the offense, for which three points shall be
entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.59 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer, a firefighter, an emergency medical
technician, a paramedic or the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle in
the performance of his or her official duties;
      (2)   A person using an electronic communication device to report to
appropriate authorities a fire, a traffic accident, a serious road hazard or a
medical or hazardous materials emergency; or
      (3)   The activation or deactivation of hands-free equipment or a
function of hands-free equipment.
   (B)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-
3(a) or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor
vehicles prescribed by the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17E or federal law or
rule.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.60 POSTING OF SIGNS GIVING NOTICE.
   Within 90 days of the effective date of this subchapter, the Department of
Transportation shall cause to be erected signs upon any highway entering the
state on which a “Welcome to West Virginia” sign is posted, and any other
highway where the Division of Highways deems it appropriate, posted at a
distance of not more than one mile from each border crossing, each sign to bear
an inscription clearly communicating to motorists entering the state that
texting or the use of a wireless communication device without hands-free
equipment is illegal within this state.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.61 SEIZURE OF DEVICE BY ENFORCEMENT AGENCY NOT AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.62 LIABILITY COVERAGE NOT AFFECTED BY VIOLATIONS.
   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance shall
contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment of
any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this subchapter as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful and, unless otherwise declared in this Traffic Code
with respect to particular offenses, it is a misdemeanor for any person to do
any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this Traffic Code.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.20 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.21 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.22 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.23 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (F)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided for in §§
70.35 through
70.41 of this chapter, and except as otherwise provided in division (F)(2)
below, any person violating the provisions of §§
70.35 through
70.41 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall
be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall
be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17C-15-31 and
17C-15-32 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100, or confined in the county or regional jail for not
more than ten days, or both; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200, or confined in the county or
regional jail for not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500, or confined in the
county or regional jail not more than six months, or both.
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.41 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (H)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
70.55 through
70.62 of this chapter is guilty of a traffic offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall for a first offense be fined $100; for a second offense be fined
$200; and for a third or subsequent offense be fined $300. No court costs or
other fees shall be assessed for a violation of §§
70.55 through
70.62.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-2-2, 17C-14-4, 17C-14-5, 17C-14-
6, 17C-14-9, 17C-14-15, 17C-15-6 and 17C-15-46
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.001   Obedience to traffic-control devices; sign required for enforcement
   
71.002   Construction or maintenance site traffic-control instructions
   
71.003   Posted restrictions in construction zones
Speed
   
71.015   Speed limitations generally
   
71.016   Specific speed limitations
   
71.017   Special speed limitations
   
71.018   Speed when meeting or overtaking waste service vehicles
   
71.019   Speeding ten mph or less above the speed limit
   
71.020   Minimum speed regulations
   
71.021   Charging speed violations; rule in civil actions
   
71.022   Prima facie evidence of speed by microwave or reflected-light devices
Right-of-Way
   
71.035   Emerging from alleys or private driveways; stop required
   
71.036   Approaching or entering intersections
   
71.037   Turning left at intersections
   
71.038   Entering through highways or stop intersections
   
71.039   Entering highways from private roads or driveways
   
71.040   When authorized emergency vehicle approaches
Driving, Overtaking and Passing
   
71.055   Driving on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
71.056   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.057   Driving on divided highways
   
71.058   Driving on controlled-access roadways
   
71.059   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite direction
   
71.060   Passing vehicles, bicycles proceeding in same direction; passing on
the left generally
   
71.061   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.062   Further limitations on driving to the left of the center of the
roadway
   
71.063   No-passing zones
Turning
   
71.075   Required positions and methods for turning at intersections
   
71.076   Turning movements and required signals
   
71.077   Right turns
   
71.078   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
71.079   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
71.080   Turning on curve or crest of grade
 
   
71.999   Penalty
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.001 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; SIGN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle and the operator of any streetcar shall obey
the instructions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto
placed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter unless otherwise
directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to the exceptions granted to
the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
   (B)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective
even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4
§ 71.002 CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE SITE TRAFFIC-CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or person authorized by the Commissioner of Highways or
by proper local authorities to operate traffic-control devices, act as a
flagger or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of
an authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4a
§ 71.003 POSTED RESTRICTIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   Where street or highway construction work is being conducted, signs and
other traffic-control devices, as adopted in W. Va. Code § 17C-3-1, shall be
posted giving the location of the work and notifying all motorists as to the
speed limit and any other traffic restrictions.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4b
SPEED
§ 71.015 SPEED LIMITATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the actual and
potential hazards. In every event, speed shall be controlled as necessary to
avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or entering the
highways in compliance with the legal requirements and the duty of all persons
to use due care.
   (B)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as authorized in this
section is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified in this
section or established as authorized in this section is unlawful.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1
§ 71.016 SPECIFIC SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The following speed limits apply:
      (1)   School zones.
         (a)   In a school zone during school recess or while children are
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours, 15 mph. A SCHOOL
ZONE is all school property, including school grounds and any street or highway
abutting the school grounds and extending 125 feet along the street or highway
from the school grounds and, in the case of school property not abutting a
street or highway but accessed through a right-of-way granted for entrance to
school property, a SCHOOL ZONE established by an engineering study conducted by
the Division of Highways is all school property, including school grounds and
any property within the access right-of-way, and extending 125 feet along the
street or highway from the entrance to the access right-of-way;
         (b)   The state’s Division of Highways shall erect signage indicating
the place of entry and exit of each school zone. Upon a formal vote and a
written request by a county board of education to expand a school zone to a
road that is adjacent to school property or from the entrance to an access
right-of-way, the state’s Division of Highways shall expand the school zone by
erecting new signage indicating the expanded school zone’s location and the
speed limit within 90 days of receiving the request; provided, that the school
zone may not be expanded more than 125 feet along an adjacent road unless the
division determines that the additional extension is needed and necessary for
the safety of the school children; and
         (c)   The speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on a
controlled- access highway which is separated from the school or school grounds
by a fence or barrier approved by the Division of Highways.
      (2)   Business or residence districts. In any business or residence
district, 25 mph; and
      (3)   Open country highways. On open country highways, except as
otherwise provided by this subchapter, 55 mph.
   (B)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
§
71.015 of this chapter, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway and when a special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (C)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph, and the speed limits specified in §
71.015 of this chapter do not apply.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. VA. Code § 17C-6-1
§ 71.017 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure
when such structure is signposted as provided in this section.
   (C)   The Commissioner of Highways, upon request from any local authority
shall, or upon his or her own initiative may, conduct an investigation of any
bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if he
or she shall thereupon find that such structure cannot with safety to itself
withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible under this
subchapter, the Commissioner shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which such structure can withstand and shall cause or permit suitable
signs stating such maximum speed to be erected and maintained at a distance of
100 feet before each end of such structure.
   (D)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this section,
proof of said determination of the maximum speed by said Commissioner and the
existence of said signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of the maximum
speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-5
§ 71.018 SPEED WHEN MEETING OR OVERTAKING WASTE SERVICE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle and meet or overtake from either
direction a stopped waste service vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, WASTE SERVICE VEHICLE means any
garbage collection vehicle, including a vehicle collecting recyclables or yard
waste, which is used for curbside collection, makes frequent stops and is not
fully automated.
   (C)   The speed limitation set forth in division (A) above applies only
under the following circumstances.
      (1)   The waste service vehicle is identifiable as a waste service
vehicle based on the vehicle configuration or markings on the vehicle.
      (2)   The waste service vehicle operator is giving a visual signal by
means of a stationary sign to warn of the presence of workers or must use
flashing lights, as permitted in this code, to caution other drivers.
      (3)   The waste service vehicle is not located on a private driveway,
controlled-access highway, interstate highway, turnpike or road or highway with
a centerline and more than two lanes.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11
§ 71.019 SPEEDING TEN MPH OR LESS ABOVE THE SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   If an owner or driver is convicted under the provisions of this
section for the offense of driving above the speed limit on a controlled-access
highway or interstate highway of this state, and if the evidence shows that the
motor vehicle was being operated at ten mph or less above the speed limit, then
notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-3-4, a certified abstract
of the judgment on the conviction shall not be transmitted to the Division of
Motor Vehicles; provided, that the provisions of this division (A) do not apply
to the conviction of owners or drivers who have been issued a commercial
driver’s license as defined in W. Va. Code Ch. 17E if the offense was committed
while operating a commercial vehicle.
   (B)   If an owner or driver is convicted in another state for the offense of
driving above the maximum speed limit on a controlled-access highway or
interstate highway, and if the maximum speed limit in the other state is less
than the maximum speed limit for a comparable controlled-access highway or
interstate highway in this state, and if the evidence shows that the motor
vehicle was being operated at ten mph or less above what would be the maximum
speed limit for a comparable controlled-access highway or interstate highway in
this state, then notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-3-4, a
certified abstract of the judgment on the conviction shall not be transmitted
to the Division of Motor Vehicles, or if transmitted, shall not be recorded by
the Division unless, within a reasonable time after conviction, the person
convicted has failed to pay all fines and costs imposed by the other state;
provided, that the provisions of this division (B) do not apply to the
conviction of owners or drivers who have been issued a commercial driver’s
license as defined in W. Va. Code Ch. 17E if the offense was committed while
operating a commercial vehicle.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1
§ 71.020 MINIMUM SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Commissioner or local authorities, within their
respective jurisdiction, determine on the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation that slow speeds on any part of the highway consistently impede
the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Commissioner or such local
authority may determine and declare a minimum speed limit below which no person
shall drive a vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with law.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3a
§ 71.021 CHARGING SPEED VIOLATIONS; RULE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
   (A)   In every charge of violation of any speed regulation in this
subchapter, the complaint, and also the summons or notice to appear, shall
specify the speed at which the defendant is alleged to have driven and also the
speed applicable within the district or at the location, and in the event a
charge shall also be made of violation of any other provision of this Traffic
Code, the complaint and the summons or notice to appear shall also specify such
other offense alleged to have been committed.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter declaring speed limitations shall
not be construed to relieve the plaintiff in any civil action from the burden
of proving negligence on the part of the defendant as the proximate cause of an
accident.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-6
§ 71.022 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF SPEED BY MICROWAVE OR REFLECTED-LIGHT DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   The speed of a motor vehicle may be proven by evidence obtained
by use of any device designed to measure and indicate or record the speed of a
moving object by means of microwaves or reflected light when such evidence is
obtained by members of the state’s police, by police officers of incorporated
municipalities in Classes 1, 2 and 3, as defined in W. Va. Code § 8-1-3, by
police officers of incorporated Class 4 municipalities, except upon controlled-
access or partially controlled-access highways, and by the Sheriff and his or
her deputies.
      (2)   The evidence so obtained shall be accepted as prima facie evidence
of the speed of the vehicle; provided, that the evidence of speed is obtained
and detected by a certified law enforcement officer who has completed training
for the speed measuring device used to obtain the speed of the motor vehicle;
provided, however, that the Governor’s Committee on Crime, Delinquency and
Correction shall, on or before January 1, 2012, establish or certify an eight-
hour training and certification program and standards for speed-measuring
device training that certified law enforcement officers who utilize speed
measuring devices must complete or otherwise satisfy in order for any evidence
of speed detected by a speed-measuring device put forward by the officer to be
accepted as prima facie evidence. All certified law enforcement officers must
have completed or otherwise satisfied the requirements of this section prior to
January 1, 2013.
   (B)   In order to inform and educate the public generally that the speed of
motor vehicles operating within the state is being tested by radar or laser
mechanisms, the Division of Highways shall locate and place suitable and
informative stationary and movable signs at strategic points on and along
highways in each county of the state giving notice to the public that such
radar or laser mechanisms are in use.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-6-7
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.035 EMERGING FROM ALLEYS OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS; STOP REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk, or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said
roadway.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-12-6
§ 71.036 APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different highway at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (C)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) above are
modified at through highways and otherwise as herein stated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-9-1
§ 71.037 TURNING LEFT AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of- way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this chapter, may make such left turn, and the
drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite
direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-9-2
§ 71.038 ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAYS OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by W. Va. Code § 17C-
12-5 at the entrance to a through highway and shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles which have entered the intersection from said through highway or
which are approaching so closely on said through highway as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded, may proceed.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto, although not a part of a through highway, and shall
proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which are
within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an immediate
hazard, but may then proceed.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-9-3
§ 71.039 ENTERING HIGHWAYS FROM PRIVATE ROADS OR DRIVEWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a private
road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
said highway.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-9-4
§ 71.040 WHEN AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE APPROACHES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by W.
Va. Code § 17C-15-26 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from
a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle, other than a police
vehicle when operated as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver
is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell:
      (1)   The driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway, clear of any intersection, and
shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle
has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer; and
      (2)   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, as above
stated, the operator of every streetcar shall immediately stop such car clear
of any intersection and keep it in such position until the authorized emergency
vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-9-5
DRIVING, OVERTAKING AND PASSING
§ 71.055 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-1
§ 71.056 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as practicable, entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in a center lane which is clearly marked as a left-turn lane, except
in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is, at the time,
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-9
§ 71.057 DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-11
§ 71.058 DRIVING ON CONTROLLED-ACCESS ROADWAYS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-12
§ 71.059 PASSING VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having a width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-2
§ 71.060 PASSING VEHICLES, BICYCLES PROCEEDING IN SAME DIRECTION; PASSING ON
THE LEFT GENERALLY.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions and special
rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left of the
overtaken vehicle at a safe distance and may not again drive to the right side
of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (C)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-3
§ 71.061 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-5
§ 71.062 FURTHER LIMITATIONS ON DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF THE CENTER OF THE
ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such a distance so as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-6
§ 71.063 NO-PASSING ZONES.
   The Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to determine those
portions of any highway where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may, by appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway, indicate the beginning and end of such zones, and when
such signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-7-7
TURNING
§ 71.075 REQUIRED POSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-1
§ 71.076 TURNING MOVEMENTS AND REQUIRED SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
71.077 through
71.079 of this chapter and W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5, or turn a vehicle to enter a
private road or driveway or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course, or
move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until such movement can be made
with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other
traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (B)   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (C)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-8
§ 71.077 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-2
§ 71.078 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made
so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-3
§ 71.079 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-4
§ 71.080 TURNING ON CURVE OR CREST OF GRADE.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-8-6
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.001 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person failing to comply with the requirements of §
71.002 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.003 of this chapter by less than 15 mph is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $200.
   (E)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided in §
71.016 of this chapter, any person who violates the provisions of §
71.016 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall
be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction within
two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than $500; provided, that if the
third or subsequent conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
71.016 where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more, then,
upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $500, or confined in jail for not
more than six months, or both fined and confined.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.016(A)(1) of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided, that
if the conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
71.016(A)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more in
the presence of one or more children, then upon conviction, shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500, or confined in jail for not more than six
months, or both fined and confined; provided, however, that if the signage
required by §
71.016(A)(1) is not present in the school zone at the time of the violation,
then any person who violates said provision is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $25.
      (3)   Any person operating a commercial motor vehicle engaged in the
transportation of coal on the coal resource transportation road system who
violates §
71.016 shall, upon conviction, be subject to fines in triple the amount
otherwise provided in division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.017 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (G)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.018 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $300. If the person convicted
of violating §
71.018 exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more or caused serious injury or
death to a service vehicle worker, then the person shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $1,000, or confined in jail for not more than one year, or
both confined and fined.
   (H)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.020 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.035 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
71.036 through
71.040 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $300; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.055 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.056 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (M)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.057 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (N)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.058 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (O)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.059 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (P)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.060 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (Q)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.061 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (R)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.062 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $200.
   (S)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.063 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (T)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.076 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (U)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.077 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (V)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.078 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (W)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.079 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (X)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.080 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-3-4, 17C-3-4a, 17C-3-4b, 17C-6-1,
17C-6-3a, 17C-6-5, 17C-6-11, 17C-7-1, 17C-7-2, 17C-7-3, 17C-7-5, 17C-7-6, 17C-
7-7, 17C-7-9, 17C-7- 11, 17C-7-12, 17C-8-2, 17C-8-3, 17C-8-4, 17C-8-6, 17C-8-8,
17C-9-6 and 17C-12-6
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Upon highways outside of business or residence districts
   
72.02   Prohibited places to stop, stand or park
   
72.03   Moving vehicle of another to a prohibited place
   
72.04   Parking unlawfully on private property; removing unattended vehicles
   
72.05   Parking unlicensed automobiles or any part thereof
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 UPON HIGHWAYS OUTSIDE OF BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Upon any highway outside of a business or residence district, no
person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the highway when it is
practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of said
highway, but in every event, an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a
standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a
clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200
feet in each direction upon such highway.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a highway in such a
manner and to such an extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such a position.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-13-1
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PLACES TO STOP, STAND OR PARK.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   In a properly designated fire lane;
   (F)   On a crosswalk;
   (G)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
   (J)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly signposted);
   (L)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (M)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (N)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
   (O)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
   (P)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a carrier
using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries if the parking interferes with or
causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
   (Q)   On any controlled-access highway;
   (R)   At any place on any highway where the safety and convenience of the
traveling public is thereby endangered; or
   (S)   In front of a wheelchair-accessible ramp or curb cut which is part of
a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut is
properly marked with blue paint.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-13-3
§ 72.03 MOVING VEHICLE OF ANOTHER TO A PROHIBITED PLACE.
   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control into
any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-13-3
§ 72.04 PARKING UNLAWFULLY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REMOVING UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to stop, park or
leave standing unattended any vehicle on a private road or driveway or on
private property without having express or implied permission from the owner,
tenant or lessee of such land.
   (B)   The owner, tenant or lessee of such private road or driveway or
private property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked or left
standing unattended on his or her private road, driveway or private property,
as above prohibited, without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle,
nor shall he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done
to such vehicle in moving it unless the owner, tenant or lessee of such private
road or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing
the removal of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to
the persons removing such vehicle for paying all removal costs.
   (C)   Any person who removes any vehicle under the provisions of this
section shall notify the state police of such action and, if such vehicle is
removed within a municipality, shall, in addition, notify the police department
of such municipality.
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 17C-14-13
§ 72.05 PARKING UNLICENSED AUTOMOBILES OR ANY PART THEREOF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or owner of any real property abutting
upon any alley, street, road or highway within the town, or his or her lessee
or his or her agent, to park an unlicensed vehicle and remain thereon 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 7-412) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.01 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.02 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.03 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.04 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year
thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or subsequent
conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (F)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.05 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-412)
(Ord. 8, passed 8-18-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code §§ 17C-13-1, 17C-13-3 and 17C-14-13
CHAPTER 73: RAILROADS
Section
   
73.01   Speed through town limits
   
73.02   Cleaning of rail service
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 SPEED THROUGH TOWN LIMITS.
   Any and all trains running through the corporate limits of the town will not
travel at a speed to exceed 15 mph, or other motor driven vehicles that run on
a rail service.
(Prior Code, § 9-132) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 CLEANING OF RAIL SERVICE.
   Any excess wood, rails, spikes and any type of material used on the rails is
to be cleaned up and maintained within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-133) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation against any section of this chapter’s provisions shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 9-134)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Animals running at large
   
90.02   Keeping near residences or businesses
   
90.03   Keeping in clean and sanitary conditions
   
90.04   Adequate food, water, shelter and the like
   
90.05   Nuisance conditions
   
90.06   Cruel treatment
   
90.07   Seizure and impoundment; disposition of animals
   
90.08   Livestock causing damage to property of others
Dogs
   
90.20   County Dog Warden the town’s Dog Warden; authority
   
90.21   Annual head tax; registration tax and certificate
   
90.22   Exemptions from head tax
   
90.23   License tag removal, transferability
   
90.24   Dogs running at large
   
90.25   Vicious dogs
   
90.26   Duty upon dog biting any person
   
90.27   Muzzling dogs under proclamation of Mayor
   
90.28   Inducing dogs to fight or annoy
   
90.29   Seizing or enticing dogs; bringing dogs into town to impound or kill
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or being in charge of any cows,
swine, sheep, horses, mules or goats, or any chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or
other domestic fowl, cattle or livestock, to knowingly or negligently permit
any of them to run at large in any street, alley or unenclosed lot within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-101) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 KEEPING NEAR RESIDENCES OR BUSINESSES.
   No person shall keep an animal or fowl enumerated in §
90.01 of this chapter within 1,000 feet of any residence, place of business or
public street without a permit from the Health Officer. The Health Officer (the
Mayor or an appointed agent) shall issue a permit only when, in his or her
sound judgment, the keeping of such an animal in a yard or building under the
circumstances as set forth in the application for the permit will not
injuriously affect the public health.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING IN CLEAN AND SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   When animals or fowls are kept within the corporate limits, the buildings,
structures, corrals, pens or enclosures in which they are kept shall at all
times be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ADEQUATE FOOD, WATER, SHELTER AND THE LIKE.
   No animal or fowl of any kind shall be kept or confined in any place where
the food, water, shelter and ventilation are not adequate and sufficient for
the preservation of its health, safe conditions and wholesomeness of food, if
so intended.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   No animal or fowl shall be kept in such a place or condition so as to become
a nuisance, either because of noise, odor, contagious disease or other reasons.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 CRUEL TREATMENT.
   If any person shall cruelly, unnecessarily or needlessly beat, torture,
mutilate, kill or overload, overdrive or willfully deprive of necessary
sustenance any horse or other domestic animal, whether such horse or other
animal be his or her own or that of another person, or shall impound or confine
any such animal in any place and fail to supply the animal with a sufficient
quantity of good, wholesome food and water, or shall carry in or upon any
vehicle, or otherwise, any such animal in a cruel or inhumane manner, or
knowingly feed a cow on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk, or shall
abandon to die any maimed, sick, infirm or diseased animal, or shall be engaged
in or employed at cock fighting, dog fighting, bear battling or pitting one
animal to fight against another of the same or a different kind, or any similar
cruelty to animals, or shall receive money for the admission of any person or
shall knowingly purchase a dog or other animal for the purpose of seizing,
detaining or mistreating any other domestic animal, he or she shall be fined
and, in the discretion of the Court, may be imprisoned.
(Prior Code, § 3-106) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal or fowl found running at large or otherwise being kept in
violation of this chapter may be seized by the Health Officer or any police
officer and confined in a pound provided or designated by the governing body.
If the owner is known, he or she shall be given notice in person, by telephone
or by a postcard addressed to his or her last known address, and the animal or
fowl will be humanely destroyed or sold if not claimed within five days. If the
owner is not known, a notice describing the impounded animal or fowl will be
posted in at least three places publicly within the corporate limits. The
notice shall state that the impounded animal or fowl must be claimed within
five days by paying the pound costs or the same will be humanely destroyed or
sold.
   (B)   If not claimed by the owner within the specified period, the animal or
fowl will be sold, humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of as authorized by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-107) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 LIVESTOCK CAUSING DAMAGE TO PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   Any person living within the corporate limits of the town owning cattle,
horses or any type of livestock will be responsible for damages they may cause
to another property owner. If said livestock causes damages to another person’s
property and said person has reasonable proof of the owner of said livestock,
the owner of said livestock will be responsible for the damages incurred.
(Prior Code, § 7-422) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 COUNTY DOG WARDEN THE TOWN’S DOG WARDEN; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Dog Warden, appointed and employed from time to time by the
County Court pursuant to W. Va. Code § 19-20-6, is hereby designated as Dog
Warden of the town.
   (B)   The County Dog Warden shall have the authority, responsibilities and
duties within the town as set forth in W. Va. Code §§ 19-20-6 and 19-20-7 and
shall further have the authority and power to enforce all ordinances of the
town providing for the maintenance or keeping of dogs or the permitting of dogs
to run at large within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 90.21 ANNUAL HEAD TAX; REGISTRATION TAX AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed upon each person keeping within the town a dog
above the age of six months an annual head tax on each dog so kept by him or
her in the amount of $6 for each male or spayed female dog and $6 for each
unspayed female dog.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each person who keeps within the town a dog
above the age of six months to report such dog to the assessor of the county
wherein such dog is kept by him or her within the town at the time the annual
assessment of personal property is made; provided, that when any person within
the town acquires a dog above the age of six months, or when a dog kept by him
or her within the town attains the age of six months, such person shall then
report such dog to the assessor of the county wherein such dog is kept by him
or her within the town.
   (C)   Each person reporting a dog to a county assessor pursuant to division
(B) above shall pay to the assessor the amount of the head tax prescribed in
division (A) above for each dog he or she is required to report, and he or she
shall then attach to the collar of each dog the proper registration tag
furnished to him or her by the assessor and retain within his or her possession
the certificate of registration furnished to him or her by the assessor for
each such dog.
   (D)   The annual head tax on dogs imposed by division (A) above is for a
fiscal year rather than a calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEAD TAX.
   (A)   The head tax imposed by §
90.21(A) of this chapter shall not apply to dogs in a licensed kennel or
veterinary hospital.
   (B)   All seeing-eye dogs are exempted from the head tax imposed by §
90.21(A) of this chapter, but their owners or custodians shall annually apply
for and be issued dog license tags upon display of a proper rabies vaccination
or inoculation or vaccination certificate.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG REMOVAL, TRANSFERABILITY.
   No person shall attach a license tag to any dog to which it was not issued
or remove a license tag from the collar of any dog without the consent of the
owners.
(Prior Code, § 3-203) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No dog, whether wearing a license tag or not, shall be permitted, and it
shall be unlawful of any dog, to run at large within the town at any time. Any
dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be subject to
impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 3-204) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog known by him or her to be
vicious, dangerous or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, whether or
not such dog wears a tag or muzzle, and, upon satisfactory proof that such dog
is vicious, dangerous or in the habit of biting or attacking persons, the Dog
Warden or any police officer may cause such dog to be impounded and disposed of
in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-205) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 DUTY UPON DOG BITING ANY PERSON.
   Any dog, whether licensed or not, who bites any person shall be taken by its
owner or custodian forthwith to a veterinarian for confinement and observation
or shall be securely confined on the premises of its owner or custodian, and in
either case, the owner or custodian shall forthwith notify the health officer
of the county wherein his or her premises is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-206) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 MUZZLING DOGS UNDER PROCLAMATION OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be made to appear to the Mayor or Council that there
are good reasons for believing that any dog within the town is mad, he or she
may issue a proclamation requiring that all dogs shall, for a period to be
defined in the proclamation, wear good, substantial muzzles, securely put on,
so as to prevent them from biting or snapping.
   (B)   Any dog at large during the period defined by the Mayor without such a
muzzle shall be taken by the Dog Warden and impounded as provided in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-207) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 INDUCING DOGS TO FIGHT OR ANNOY.
   No person shall entice, induce, urge or cause any dog to engage in or
prolong a fight in the town, and no person shall induce or cause any dog to run
after, bark at, frighten or bite any person or animal lawfully passing along or
standing in or on any street or highway in the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 SEIZING OR ENTICING DOGS; BRINGING DOGS INTO TOWN TO IMPOUND OR KILL.
   Except for persons duly authorized herein, no person shall entice any
properly licensed dog into any enclosure for the purpose of taking off its
collar, harness or tag; or, for such purpose, decoy or entice any dog out of
the enclosure or house of its owner or possessor; or seize or molest any dog
which is held or led by any person; or bring any dog into the town for the
purpose of impounding or killing.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.08 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $100 for
each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
   (C)   As set out in §
90.06 of this chapter, any person shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than
$100 and, in the discretion of the Court, he or she may be imprisoned not
exceeding 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (D)   Any person who violates or fails or refuses to comply with any of the
provisions of §
90.08 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town and
shall, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, be fined not less than
$50 and not more than $100, and moreover, be liable to the injured party for
the damages sustained by said livestock.
(Prior Code, § 7-422)
   (E)   A violation of any provision of §§
90.20 through
90.29 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for
each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health Officer
   
91.02   Adulterated food, drugs or cosmetics
   
91.03   Stagnant water
   
91.04   Dead animals
   
91.05   Privies, hog pens and the like; location and sanitary regulations
   
91.06   Polluting creeks, streams, ditches or drains
   
91.07   Smoke, soot, cinders and the like
   
91.08   Burning matter in streets or on premises
   
91.09   Premises containing health and sanitation nuisances
   
91.10   Town Council may condemn or order property restored
Overgrown Vegetation
   
91.25   Definition
   
91.26   Grass and weed height restricted to eight inches
   
91.27   Cut vegetation to be removed
   
91.28   Notice issued upon violation
   
91.29   Abatement by town
   
91.30   Failure to pay constitutes a lien
Abandoned and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
91.45   Findings
   
91.46   Definitions
   
91.47   Authority of enforcement agency; jurisdiction
   
91.48   Criminal actions
   
91.49   Vehicles on private property
   
91.50   Vehicles on public property
   
91.51   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Health Officer shall be such municipal, county or state officer as the
governing body shall appoint or designate to administer and enforce health and
sanitation regulations within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
§ 91.02 ADULTERATED FOOD, DRUGS OR COSMETICS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to
violate within the town any provisions of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act, being 21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7-402) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly allow any pool of stagnant
water to accumulate and stand on his or her property.
(Prior Code, § 7-406) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DEAD ANIMALS.
   Any person owning or having possession of any dead animal not intended for
use as food shall promptly bury the same or notify the Health Officer and/or
Mayor and dispose of such animal in such manner as the Health Officer or Mayor
shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 7-408) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PRIVIES, HOG PENS AND THE LIKE; LOCATION AND SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   All privies or back houses, public urinals, toilets and water closets within
the town shall be constructed to meet the standards of the County Health
Department, and such privy, urinal, toilet or water closet, and all stables,
hog or pig pens, chicken houses, cow barns and dairies, shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition, and no privy urinal, stable, hog or pig pen,
chicken house, cow barn or dairy shall be constructed or be permitted to be
constructed and remain so close to another dwelling house so that the odors or
stench from the same will be obnoxious and uncomfortable to the occupants
thereof and render the occupation of the dwelling undesirable to persons of
ordinary sensibilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-416) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Sewer regulations, see Ch. 51
§ 91.06 POLLUTING CREEKS, STREAMS, DITCHES OR DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump, throw,
discharge or deposit or cause to be dumped, thrown, discharged or deposited
within the boundary limits of the town, or within one-half mile above the town,
into the waters of Lost Creek or its small branches or into any gutter or drain
within the town, or within one-half mile of the town, any dead animal or fowl
or any obnoxious vegetables, minerals or any substances, or tin cans in which
foods or liquids have been kept or preserved or any oil or petroleum; or to
dump, throw, discharge or deposit or cause or permit to be the aforesaid upon
any premises or property owned by or under the control of him or her, them or
it upon or near the edge of said streams or its branches or so near as to
permit the obnoxious substances to be washed or carried into said streams and
branches by rain or drainage and thereby tend to contaminate, pollute or impair
the quality of the water in said streams and branches in the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-414) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations, see Ch. 52
§ 91.07 SMOKE, SOOT, CINDERS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the escape of such
quantities of dense smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes or gases so as
to be detrimental to or endanger the health, comfort and safety of the public
or cause, or have a tendency to cause, injury or damage to property or
business.
(Prior Code, § 7-405) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 BURNING MATTER IN STREETS OR ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any
shavings, refuse, waste paper, rubbish or other matter in any street, road,
alley or highway within the town without the consent of the Mayor thereof, and
no person shall burn the same or cause or permit the same to be done upon his
or her premises so close to the dwelling house of another so that the dense
smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders will be in such quantity so as to
render the occupation of the dwelling uncomfortable to a person of ordinary
sensibilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-415) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 PREMISES CONTAINING HEALTH AND SANITATION NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any premises owned, occupied
or controlled by him or her to become or remain in a filthy condition, or
permit the use or occupation of the same in such a manner so as to create
noxious or offensive smells and odors in connection therewith, or to allow the
accumulation or creation of unwholesome and offensive matter or the breeding of
flies, rodents or other vermin on the premises to the menace of the public
health or the annoyance of people residing within the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 7-409) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 TOWN COUNCIL MAY CONDEMN OR ORDER PROPERTY RESTORED.
   The Town Council can condemn, or make property owners restore, properties
within the corporate limits. Such properties the Town Council feels are
eyesores, fire hazards or injurious to health and lives, in ruins or
thereabout, the landowners will be responsible for maintaining. No person,
firm, corporation or association owning real estate within the corporate limits
of the town, nor any leasee or subleasee thereof, shall suffer or permit such
real estate of any character to fall into such state of neglect or disrepair as
to be as aforesaid. If, in the opinion of the Council, such condition exists or
arises, the Council shall take prompt and appropriate legal action to cause
such condition to be corrected or abated as a public nuisance as provided in
this Title IX.
(Prior Code, § 7-421) Penalty, see §
91.99
OVERGROWN VEGETATION
§ 91.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Includes all rank vegetable growth which exhales unpleasant and
noxious odors and also high and rank vegetable growth that may conceal filthy
deposits.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 91.26 GRASS AND WEED HEIGHT RESTRICTED TO EIGHT INCHES.
   (A)   No owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises, or his or her
agent or employee, shall suffer or permit thereon any growth of weeds to the
height of more than eight inches, nor shall any such person suffer or permit
the growth of any weeds or grass on any part of any sidewalk abutting upon such
premises.
   (B)   All premises shall be maintained by the owners, occupants and persons
in charge thereof free of vegetation which affords a breeding place for
insects, reptiles or rodents, and upon all premises not devoted to agricultural
uses, the grass thereon shall be kept trimmed to a height of not more than
eight inches.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 CUT VEGETATION TO BE REMOVED.
   Grass, weeds and vegetation, when cut down, shall be removed from the
premises and disposed of in such a manner so as not to create a nuisance.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 NOTICE ISSUED UPON VIOLATION.
   The Code Enforcement Department or any officer of the County Sheriff’s
Department is hereby directed to notify, in writing by certified mail,
restricted delivery to addressee only, the owner, or the agent of the owner, of
any lot or parcel of land in the town to cut and destroy any noxious,
unhealthful or deleterious growth of vegetation and any grass or weeds that
exceed eight inches in height. Such notice shall be sent to the last known
address of the owner, or the agent of the owner, of such lot or parcel.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of the owner or agent notified under
this subchapter to cut and destroy any noxious, unhealthful or deleterious
growth of vegetation, or any weeds or grasses in excess of eight inches, within
ten days after the receipt of such notice or of service of the notice as
provided for in this subchapter, the town is hereby authorized to cut and
destroy said growth, weeds or grasses by using town forces.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 91.30 FAILURE TO PAY CONSTITUTES A LIEN.
   The charges established by this subchapter shall be imposed upon the owner
of the premises served, and if the fee, rate or charge for any of the foregoing
services shall not be paid within 30 days after becoming due, the amount
thereof may be recovered by the town in any appropriate action; and the fees,
rates and charges for the services mentioned above in this subchapter shall, if
not paid when due, constitute a lien upon the premises served, and which lien
may be foreclosed against the lot, parcel of land or building served in
accordance with the laws of the state relating to the foreclosure of liens on
real property. The town shall file in the office of the clerk of the county
court of the county in which the premises served is located an itemized
statement, duly verified by a proper officer of the town, for recording in the
judgment lien book in such county clerk’s office. Upon the failure to pay for
such service when due, the town may discontinue such service without notice.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020)
ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.45 FINDINGS.
   The Town Council hereby makes the following findings.
   (A)   The statutory provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(10) specifically
authorize municipalities to, by ordinance or resolution, as the case may
require, require the disposal of garbage, refuse, debris, waste ashes, trash
and other similar accumulations, whether on private or public property.
   (B)   The statutory provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(13) specifically
authorize municipalities, by ordinance or resolution, as the case may require,
and by appropriate action based thereon, to prevent injury or unwholesome acts.
   (C)   The statutory provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(22) specifically
authorize municipalities, by ordinance or resolution, as the case may require,
and by the appropriate action based thereon, to provide for the elimination of
hazards to public health and safety and to abate or cause to be abated anything
which, in the opinion of a majority of the governing body, is a public
nuisance.
   (D)   The statutory provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(43) specifically
authorize municipalities, by ordinance or resolution, as the case may require,
and by appropriate action based thereon, to protect and promote the public
morals, safety, health, welfare and good order.
   (E)   The statutory provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(57) specifically
authorize municipalities, by ordinance or resolution, as may require, and by
appropriate action based thereon, to provide penalties for offenses and
violations of law in W. Va. Code § 8-12-5, as amended.
   (F)   The statutory provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17-24A-1 et seq.
specifically address abandoned and junked motor vehicles, including the
opportunity of municipal enforcement agencies, such as the Town Inspector, Code
Enforcement Officer or police officers of the town, to take certain actions to
take custody and possession of such vehicles.
   (G)   The Town Council deems the parking or storage of any motor vehicle
that has been abandoned, or which otherwise is in a wrecked, junked, partially
dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition, upon any public property
situated within the corporate limits of the town for any period of time, and
upon any private property situated within the town limits for a period
exceeding 30 days, to constitute a violation of W. Va. Code § 8-12-5(10), (13),
(22) and (43), as amended, unless such vehicle is stored completely within an
enclosed building located upon private property only, or further, unless such
vehicle is so stored or parked on private property only in connection with a
duly licensed business or commercial enterprise operated and conducted pursuant
to law when such parking or storage of vehicles is necessary to the operation
of the business or commercial enterprise.
   (H)   The Town Council further finds that the keeping of abandoned or junked
motor vehicles reflects negatively upon the appearance and image of the
community, impairing property values and damaging neighborhood harmony.
   (I)   The Town Council further deems it to be reasonable and appropriate to
establish specific warning notice provisions for those violating the provisions
of this subchapter by storing abandoned or junked motor vehicles upon private
property prior to the issuance of any citation that could result in the
imposition of penalties, which include possible fines and the imposition of
fees, costs and expenses incurred by the town, against persons convicted of
violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or substantial part thereof,
that is functionally or legally inoperative and that has been left unattended,
discarded or deserted on either public or private property, other than such a
vehicle that is kept or maintained within a fully enclosed building or within a
licensed salvage yard, vehicle auction establishment or licensed and
appropriately zoned vehicle repair establishment. To avoid any possible
misunderstanding, a FUNCTIONALLY INOPERATIVE VEHICLE is one that cannot be
driven from its stored location, and a LEGALLY INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE
specifically includes any vehicle that is not currently licensed, inspected or
registered, and in either case, is not kept or maintained within a fully
enclosed building, licensed salvage yard, vehicle auction establishment or
licensed and appropriately zoned vehicle repair establishment or in the actual
possession of the demolisher or repair enterprise.
   CITATION. Any written order issued by the Town Inspector, Code Enforcement
Officer or a police officer requiring the cited person to appear before the
Town Municipal Court at a later date.
   ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by connected and intersecting
walls, or one continuous wall, and having a roof enclosing the entire
structure, and includes a permanent appendage thereto.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or part thereof, other than an on-
premises farm utility vehicle, that is discarded, wrecked, ruined, scrapped or
dismantled and cannot pass the state inspection required by W. Va. Code §§ 17C-
16-1 et seq., as amended.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is or was self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, any automobile, truck, bus, motorcycle or all-terrain vehicle
(ATV).
   MUNICIPAL COURT. The Municipal Court of the town or the Judge thereof.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association or
society, and the plural as well as the singular.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any nonpublic, real property owned or occupied by any
person whomsoever.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public street, alley, sidewalk or other property not
privately owned.
   WARNING NOTICE. A 30-day notice, described and set forth pursuant to the
statutory provisions of W. Va. Code § 17-24A-3, that requires the enforcement
agency to give the private property owner and the owner of the subject
abandoned or junked motor vehicle, if ascertainable, a 30-day written NOTICE,
by registered or certified mail, that the action will be taken unless the motor
vehicle is restored to a functional use and legally operative condition, or
further pursuant to this subchapter, the subject motor vehicle is otherwise
brought into compliance by proper removal or being moved within an enclosed
building.
   ZONING AND CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The duly appointed Zoning and/or Code
Enforcement Officer of the town.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 91.47 AUTHORITY OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The officers of the town’s enforcement agency, that is, the Town
Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer or a police officer, are specifically
authorized hereby to undertake all measures permitted to be taken by an
enforcement agency pursuant to the statutory provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17-
24A-1 et seq., as amended, as thought those measures were set forth fully
herein without limitation, and additionally, said officers are empowered to
issue citations for violations of this subchapter, pursuant to division (B)
below and §
91.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Municipal Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and
decide all matters pertaining to violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 91.48 CRIMINAL ACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store, keep or maintain
any abandoned or junked motor vehicle upon any public or private property
situated within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise possessing
private property to permit any parking, storing, keeping or maintaining of any
abandoned or junked motor vehicles upon any of his or her private property
situated within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   For the purposes of administering this subchapter, a separate citation
may be issued for each abandoned or junked vehicle.
   (D)   Further, for the purposes of administering this subchapter, each
ensuing seven-day period following the date of issuance of any citation
hereunder shall be deemed to constitute a new, separate offense under this
subchapter, for which additional citations may thereafter be issued.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.49 VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prior to any removal of any permitted or junked motor vehicle from
private property only by the enforcement agency as permitted pursuant to W. Va.
Code §§ 17-24A-1 et seq., as amended, and further, prior to the issuance of any
citation authorized to be issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter,
there shall first be given to the private property owner or other possessor of
the private property who is not the owner, such as the lessee, and the owner of
the motor vehicle, if ascertainable, a 30-day written warning notice either:
      (1)   Sent by registered or certified mail; or
      (2)   Served personally by the Town Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer
or a police officer.
   (B)   Said notice shall provide that the removal action will be taken and a
citation issued unless the motor vehicle is otherwise brought into compliance
by proper removal, or being moved within an enclosed building, or otherwise
being brought into compliance. All 30-day warning notices shall be prepared by
the Town Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer or a police officer, and the form
warning notice shall be filed with and approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   The 30-day warning notice period shall be deemed to commence with
either the receipt date or service date of the warning notice.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.50 VEHICLES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The provisions of §
91.49 of this chapter shall not be deemed to apply to any abandoned or junked
motor vehicle located upon public property. To avoid any possible
misunderstanding, the enforcement agency, that is, the Town Inspector, Code
Enforcement Officer or a police officer, may immediately take custody and
possession of any abandoned or junked motor vehicle kept or maintained on
public property.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter was deemed effective by the Town Council beginning November
8, 2022.
(Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
91.05 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 7-417)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
91.06 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-414)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
91.08 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-415)
   (E)   The failure of any owner, or agent of such owner, so notified under §
91.28 of this chapter to comply with such notice or order to cut and destroy
any such vegetation, weeds or grasses within the prescribed time period is an
offense that shall be punished by a fine of $50 for the first office, and $100
for each subsequent offense, and the actual cost expended by the town in the
cutting or destroying of said growth, weeds or grasses as provided for in §§
91.25 through
91.30 of this chapter, whichever is greater. Each day of noncompliance with
such order is a separate offense.
   (F)   (1)   Any person convicted of any first offence under §§
91.45 through
91.51 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $200, in
the discretion of the Town Judge of the Municipal Court, plus any applicable
fees, costs and expenses incurred by the Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer or
town in the removal, storage or disposal of any vehicle pursuant to §§
91.45 through
91.51.
      (2)   Any person convicted of any second or subsequent offense under §§
91.45 through
91.51 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500, in
the discretion of the Town Judge of the Municipal Court, plus any applicable
fees, costs and expenses incurred by the Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer or
the town in the removal, storage or disposal of any vehicle pursuant to this §§
91.45 through
91.51.
(Ord. 7-407-B, passed 8-18-2020; Ord. 7-423, passed 11-1-2022)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Authority
   
92.03   Purpose
   
92.04   More stringent standards prevail
   
92.05   Jurisdiction
   
92.06   Definitions and interpretation
Procedures and Abatement
   
92.20   Filing complaint
   
92.21   Investigating complaint
   
92.22   Council determination to issue notice
   
92.23   Issuance of notice to show cause
   
92.24   Public hearing; disposition of complaint
   
92.25   Abatement of nuisance injunction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be titled and cited as the “Town of Lost Creek Nuisance
Ordinances.”
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted in W. Va. Code Ch.
16, Art. 3, as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
town residents by providing a procedure for identifying and removing public
nuisances.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.04 MORE STRINGENT STANDARDS PREVAIL.
   If any provision of this chapter conflicts with a provision of any other
town ordinance which establishes a more stringent standard for the protection
of the health and safety of town residents, such other ordinance shall prevail.
If any provision of this chapter conflicts with a provision of any other town
ordinance which establishes a less stringent standard for the protection of the
health and safety of town residents, this chapter shall prevail, and such other
provisions are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent they conflict with
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.05 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter applies to all buildings and land within the town and not
wholly within the boundaries of a municipal corporation, except for:
   (A)   Buildings or land owned by the United States government or any
department, division or agency thereof;
   (B)   Buildings or land owned by the state or any political subdivision,
agency or instrumentality thereof; and
   (C)   Buildings or land owned by a municipal corporation.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.06 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The duly elected Town Council.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Board of Health organized pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch.
16, Art. 2 or Art. 2A.
   MAY or SHALL.  MAY is permissive; SHALL is mandatory.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, corporation, unincorporated association,
chartered association, general partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, joint venture or joint stock company, club company, business
trust or any manager, agent, servant, officer or employee of any item.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The County Planning Commission created pursuant to W.
Va. Code Ch. 8A, Art. 2.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any thing, any act, any failure to act or any occupation or
use of property which shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health,
comfort or repose of the public at large, and shall be deemed to include, but
shall not be limited to, animals running at large; vessels or items holding
stagnant water in which mosquitoes can breed; carcasses of animals not buried
or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary manner; accumulations of manure non-
agriculturally related, or rubbish, which are breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes or vermin; the pollution of any body of water, stream, creek, pond
or river by sewage, industrial wastes or other substances; privy vaults and
garbage cans which are not air-tight; noxious weeds and other rank growths of
vegetation upon private property; any condition of the structure, including
appurtenances, considered an attractive nuisance to children, such as abandoned
wells, shafts, basements, excavations or unsafe open structures; any structure
that is unsafe for human habitation; any that is manifestly capable of being a
fire hazard or is manifestly unsafe or unsecured so as to endanger life, limb
or property; any structure in the state of dilapidation, deterioration, decay,
faulty construction, overcrowded, open, vacant or abandoned, or damaged by fire
to the extent so as not to provide shelter, or in danger of collapse or failure
and dangerous to anyone on or near the structure and surrounding premises; any
premises used for illegal possession, storage or delivery of or trafficking in
controlled substances, or other illegal drug activity, is hereby declared a
PUBLIC NUISANCE, and all other acts, omissions to act, occupations and uses of
property which are in fact a menace or detriment to the public health, safety
and welfare, create conditions of slum and blight or effect the quality of life
for the citizens and residents of the town.
   TOWN. Refers to the Town of Lost Creek, West Virginia.
   TOWN CLERK. The duly appointed Clerk of the town.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
PROCEDURES AND ABATEMENT
§ 92.20 FILING COMPLAINT.
   The County Sheriff and the Deputy Sheriff, the chief or any member of any
county or town fire department, any member of the Health Department, the
Executive Director or any member of the County Solid Waste Authority, the
Director, Inspector or any member of the Town Council or any person residing in
the town may file a complaint, verified under oath and penalty of perjury,
alleging the existence of a public health nuisance and request that such a
nuisance be removed. Such complaints shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.21 INVESTIGATING COMPLAINT.
   The Council shall refer any such complaint to the Clerk for investigation
and recommendation. The recommendation of the Clerk shall be in writing and
shall be returned to the Council not later than 14 days after the date of
reference.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.22 COUNCIL DETERMINATION TO ISSUE NOTICE.
   After receipt and review of the Clerk’s recommendation, the Council shall
make a determination by motion in public session as to whether sufficient
evidence exists to issue a notice to show cause why a public health nuisances
should not be abated.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.23 ISSUANCE OF NOTICE TO SHOW CAUSE.
   (A)   If the Council determines that sufficient evidence exists to issue a
notice to show cause why a public health nuisance should not be abated, the
Clerk shall cause written notice to be served upon the complainant and the
landowner or occupant to appear before the Council at a designated time and
show cause why a public health nuisance should not be abated. Such notice shall
be served as provided under Rule 4 of the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure, and
a copy of the complaint shall be attached to the notice served on the landowner
or occupant charged with the creation of such nuisance.
   (B)   The Clerk shall record on the file copy of the notice the method by
which service was made and the date of service, and if service was made by
personal service, shall cause the person making personal service to certify the
date on which and upon whom personal service was made.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.24 PUBLIC HEARING; DISPOSITION OF COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Pursuant to such notice to show cause, the Council shall conduct a
public hearing at which both the complainant and the landowner or occupant
charged with the creation of a public health nuisance, together with such
witnesses as they may produce, shall have an opportunity to be fully heard.
   (B)   A continuance of such hearing may be granted at the instance of either
party for proper cause shown.
   (C)   If the Council determines after such hearing that a public nuisance
exists which should be abated, it shall issue an order which shall require that
the landowner or occupant charged with the duty to remove such nuisance shall
do so not later than ten days after the date such order is entered.
   (D)   Such order shall be served upon the landowner or occupant charged with
the duty to remove such nuisance by the Clerk and shall be by United States
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
§ 92.25 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE INJUNCTION.
   The Council may apply to the Municipal Judge of the town for an injunction
to abate such nuisance if the landowner or occupant charged with the duty to
remove such nuisance does not do so within ten days after the date the Council
enters as order to remove such nuisance.
(Ord. passed 7-7-2020)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Displays require permit, bond, proof of financial responsibility
   
93.03   Days and times of allowed use
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances or articles prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy
canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, Roman candles, day-go bombs or other FIREWORKS of like construction
and any FIREWORKS containing any explosive or flammable compound or any tablets
or other devices containing any explosive substance.
      (2)   The term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and model rocket
engines designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero
models and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices
in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with United States
Department of Transportation regulations for the packing and shipping of toy
paper or plastic caps are used and toy paper or plastic caps manufactured as
provided therein, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
Each package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for retail sale shall
be labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
      (3)   The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered
FIREWORKS and require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to
sell, as provided in W. Va. Code § 11-12-86:
         (a)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols, provided
that the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed one-fourth of a grain
for each cap;
         (b)   Snakes and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a
pyrotechnic mixture that produce a large, snake-like ash when burning;
         (c)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
         (d)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to
surprise the user, and which include:
            1.   A PARTY POPPER, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of one-fourth of a grain of explosive mixture. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device, expelling
paper streamers and producing a small report;
            2.   A SNAPPER or DROP-POP, which is a small, paper-wrapped item
containing not more than one-fourth of a grain of explosive mixture coated on
small bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report; and
            3.   A STRING POPPER, which is a small tube containing not in
excess of one-fourth of a grain of explosive mixture with a string protruding
from both ends. The strings are pulled to activate the friction-sensitive
mixture, producing a small report.
         (e)   Wire sparklers consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition. These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
         (f)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and
sometimes a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or
explode, are handheld or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the air
and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not more
than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided, that sparklers
and sparkler devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to anyone below
the age of 16 years old.
(Ord. 9-135, passed 10-11-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DISPLAYS REQUIRE PERMIT, BOND, PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership or
corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks; provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the state’s Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police Chief and Fire
Chief and the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every
such display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as
to competency by the state’s Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character and so located, discharged or fired as, in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
   (B)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000, conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section and
W. Va. Code § 15A-11-3 and the regulations of the state’s Fire Commission;
provided, that the municipality shall not be required to file such bond.
   (C)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm or
corporation, or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character and
form as the state’s Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the protection
of the public.
(Ord. 9-135, passed 10-11-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DAYS AND TIMES OF ALLOWED USE.
   (A)   (1)   The use of projectile fireworks shall be limited to Independence
Day (as well as the Saturday before and the Saturday after Independence Day),
Labor Day and Memorial Day from 11:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m. and on New Year’s
Eve from 11:00 a.m. until 12:30 a.m. on New Year’s Day.
      (2)   Further, the celebration of Independence Day will permit the use of
fireworks on July 1 (or July 2 as the rain date) for the sole purpose of any
festival or celebration held by the town.
   (B)   This section applies to individuals as well as firms, businesses,
copartnerships and corporations, and includes, but is not limited to, all
residents and visitors of the town.
(Ord. 9-135, passed 10-11-2022) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person, firm, copartnership or corporation found to be in
violation of §
93.02 of this chapter shall be issued a fine of $75, plus all court costs
associated with said fine.
   (C)   (1)   Any individual, firm, business, copartnership or corporation in
violation of §
93.03 of this chapter is subject to the following schedule of fines.
 
Offense Number Fine
First offense  $50
Second offense $100
Third offense  $150
 
      (2)   Any and all court costs associated with a violation of §
93.03 of this chapter are to be borne by the offending party.
(Ord. 9-135, passed 10-11-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   STORES
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
114.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Conditions precedent to doing business in town
   
110.02   Application for license; payment of tax; issuance
   
110.03   Records maintained by Recorder
   
110.04   False statements
   
110.05   Confidential nature of returns; limitations on divulging information
   
110.06   Separate license for each fixed place and class of business
   
110.07   License year and expiration; renewal; prorating of tax
   
110.08   Display of license
   
110.09   License does not legalize unlawful acts
   
110.10   Collection by court proceedings
   
110.11   Prosecution for violations; town recourse to seek injunctions
   
110.12   Suspension, revocation of license; hearing upon appeal
Requirements for Specified Occupations or Activities
   
110.25   License and tax requirements imposed
   
110.26   Bowling lanes; billiard, pool and bagatelle tables
   
110.27   Coin-operated devices and vending machines
   
110.28   Contractors
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS IN TOWN.
   Payment in full of the proper tax or fee as required by the town, the
issuance of a municipal business license and the fulfillment of all terms and
conditions of such grant shall be precedent to the transaction of any business,
profession, calling, vocation, activity, trade or employment for which a
license is required.
(Prior Code, § 5-101) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each applicant for a municipal business license shall make an
application to the Town Recorder written and signed by hand. All businesses
within the town shall display a state certificate or license to the Recorder at
the time of making an application for a municipal business license.
   (B)   Upon the payment of such license, a tax or fee may be imposed by this
chapter, or elsewhere in this code or other ordinance, upon the municipal
business license for which the application is made.
   (C)   The Recorder shall issue the license applied for, provided that the
application is in proper form and that all requirements of state law, this
Title XI and other ordinances, and all conditions precedent to the issuance of
said license, appear to the Recorder to have been complied with; and provided
further, the application for licenses which are required to be issued by the
Town Council shall be referred by the Town Recorder to the Town Council at its
next meeting succeeding the date of filing thereof, and he or she shall not
issue any such license until authorized to do so by the Town Council, and in
any such case, the payment of any license tax or fee shall be deferred until
such application has been approved by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 110.03 RECORDS MAINTAINED BY RECORDER.
   The Recorder shall maintain on file all applications for municipal business
licenses and a record of each license issued, which shall set forth:
   (A)   The name and business address of the licensee;
   (B)   The date of issuance and the term for which issued;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   The amount of license tax to be paid;
   (E)   The number of the license; and
   (F)   Such additional information as may be pertinent to establish that all
requirements of law and ordinance have been complied with.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 110.04 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement in
any application for a municipal business license or on any tax return, report
or other statement relating to any activity licensed by the town and which is
required to be made to any town officer or agency.
(Prior Code, § 5-103) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF RETURNS; LIMITATIONS ON DIVULGING INFORMATION.
   All returns and tax statements made by taxpayers to the town officers shall
be regarded as confidential and, except in compliance with judicial order, or
as may be required by the proper administration hereof, the Recorder, his or
her agents and employees and former Town Recorders, agents and employees shall
not divulge facts and information obtained in the administration of this code.
(Prior Code, § 5-104) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH FIXED PLACE AND CLASS OF BUSINESS.
   Except as may be provided otherwise in this Title XI or other ordinance, any
person who, at more than one fixed place of business within the town, engages
in or prosecutes any business, profession, calling or vocation for which a
municipal business license is required shall obtain a separate license and pay
the prescribed tax or fee thereof for each such fixed place of business and for
each such business, profession, calling or vocation.
(Prior Code, § 5-105) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 LICENSE YEAR AND EXPIRATION; RENEWAL; PRORATING OF TAX.
   (A)   A license year shall begin on July 1 of each calendar year and shall
expire with the expiration of the next ensuing June 30, and licenses shall
expire at midnight on the last day of June subsequent to the date of issuance
and shall be renewable annually, except such licenses for which the tax or fee
is by the day, week, month or other period less than a year, and except as may
be provided otherwise in this Title XI or other ordinance.
   (B)   The license tax or fee for an initial license upon the commencement of
business shall be in proportion to the duration of such license to the annual
tax or fees; provided, that no license for any purpose or any length of time
shall be issued for less than $2. Any licensee may assign the expired term of
his or her license to another by endorsement of the assignment by the licensee
on the back of the license to the assignee, attested by the Town Recorder;
provided, that such license shall not be transferred to any other person, firm
or corporation except by authority of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-106) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each person to whom a municipal business license has been issued shall keep
such license conspicuously posted upon or within the premises to which such
license relates. Each licensee having no fixed place of business shall carry
his or her license upon his or her person at all times while engaging the
licensed business or any transaction incidental thereto and shall display such
license upon the request of any person with whom he or she is transacting
business or of any law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-107) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 LICENSE DOES NOT LEGALIZE UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   Nothing in this chapter, and no payment for or issuance of any municipal
business license under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any
act which otherwise may be in violation of law or to exempt any person from any
penalty prescribed for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 5-108) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 110.10 COLLECTION BY COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   The Town Recorder may collect any license tax, fee or penalty unpaid under
the provisions of this chapter by appropriate proceedings in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 5-110) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
§ 110.11 PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS; TOWN RECOURSE TO SEEK INJUNCTIONS.
   If any person engages in or prosecutes any business profession, calling or
vocation contrary to any of the provisions of this Title XI, whether without
first obtaining a license therefor or by continuing the same after the
termination of the effective period of any such license, or by any violation of
the terms and conditions of such license, he or she shall be subject to
immediate prosecution in the Municipal Court, and in addition, the Town
Attorney may, in the name of the town, seek such injunctive relief as may be
appropriate in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 5-112) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING UPON APPEAL.
   (A)   The Town Recorder, upon reasonable notice to the licensee, may
summarily revoke any license issued by him or her pursuant to the provisions of
this Title XI for any reason which would have been grounds for denial of such
license when first issued, for violation of any term or condition of such
license, for violation of any pertinent provision of state law, this code or
other ordinance or for the perpetration or attempted perpetration of fraud,
malpractice or malfeasance by the licensee, without prejudice to the
prosecution of such licensee by the town.
   (B)   Any person having an interest in any license so revoked and who feels
aggrieved thereby may request the Town Recorder to further investigate the
grounds for revocation and to reconsider his or her action, and if the Town
Recorder accedes to such request, he or she may suspend or reinstate the
license pending his or her final decision. If the Recorder refuses to accede to
such request, or if, upon reconsideration, he or she affirms his or her
revocation of the license, the party so aggrieved may appeal to the Town
Council, may appear in person or by counsel, may have the attendance of
witnesses, books and papers in his or her behalf and may testify in person. The
decision of the Town Council following such hearing shall be final, subject to
only such judicial review as may be provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-113) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIED OCCUPATIONS OR ACTIVITIES
§ 110.25 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED.
   No person shall, without a current valid municipal business license, engage
in or prosecute within the city any of the businesses, activities, trades or
employments named in the following sections of this subchapter. The license
taxes hereinafter specified are hereby levied on every person engaging in or
prosecuting within this town any such businesses, activities, trades or
employments.
(Prior Code, § 5-201) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 BOWLING LANES; BILLIARD, POOL AND BAGATELLE TABLES.
   (A)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain a bowling lane or a
billiard, pool or bagatelle table, or a table of like kind, for public use,
where any charge is made for the use thereof, shall be $25, but if more than
one of such lanes or tables be kept or maintained in the same building by the
same person, the fee shall be $15 for each additional table.
   (B)   The licensee, his or her agents or employees shall not permit any
person in any manner to bet or wager anything of value upon any game played
upon such lanes or tables. Such licensee, his or her agents or employees shall
not permit anyone to bring any intoxicating liquors of any kind into such
building or other place where such lanes or tables are located.
   (C)   Persons keeping or maintaining billiard, pool or bagatelle tables, or
other tables of like kind, in an establishment where intoxicating liquor or
nonintoxicating beer is sold shall not permit persons under the age of 21 years
to play at such tables or to remain or loiter in the room where such tables are
located.
(Prior Code, § 5-202) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.27 COIN-OPERATED DEVICES AND VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   Persons owning and operating coin-operated merchandise, service,
amusement or music devices or vending machines shall obtain annual licenses and
pay the fees prescribed in this section on or before July 1 of each year.
   (B)   The liability for the licensee to operate any type of coin-operated
merchandise, service, amusement or music device or vending machine shall be
upon the owner of the machine. The leasing of such machine shall not be
considered as a transfer of ownership of the machine, and where a lessor-lessee
relationship exists, the lessor shall be liable for the applicable license and
fees.
   (C)   The owner of such machines shall identify each machine by installing
on each device an identification label, plainly legible and visible, in such a
manner that the machine need not be moved to observe the identification label,
and the identification label shall contain the name of the owner, his or her
telephone number, town license number and address.
   (D)   The annual license fee to own and operate any type of coin-operated
merchandise, service, amusement or music device or vending machine shall be a
flat fee of $250.
   (E)   The fee herein prescribed is on an annual basis, commencing on July 1
of each year and expiring the following year on June 30 at midnight, and is not
prorated if obtained during the license year, nor shall fees paid be refundable
if a license is revoked or suspended or business ceases during the license
year.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any pay
telephone, postage stamp vending machine or currency-changing machine operated
on the coin-in-slot principle.
   (G)   Except where the principal business of the operation of the store is
the operation of such machines or devices, no license fee shall be required of
persons keeping or maintaining such machines or devices owned by them in their
own licensed stores; provided, that any person exempt from such license shall
obtain from the Town Recorder a license receipt, at a cost not to exceed $250,
showing that he or she is so exempt, which shall be effective for the period as
provided for annual licenses in this chapter, but to obtain such license
receipt or other evidence of exemption, he or she shall make an affidavit and
produce such other evidence as to the facts entitling him or her to such
exemption as the Town Recorder, in his or her discretion, may require, which
shall be on a form to be prescribed by the Recorder.
   (H)   The proprietor or owner of the business conducted in the place where
any such machine is kept or maintained is liable for the payment of such
license fee, and upon his or her refusal or failure to pay such fee, the
Recorder or his or her agents may take such machine or device into possession
and deliver it to law enforcement officials, or law enforcement on their own
initiative or upon order or device shall impound such devices until such
license fee is paid; in the event the license fee and penalties are not paid
within ten days and after the date of such impounding, then law enforcement
officials shall sell such machine or device in the manner provided by law for
the sale of personal property for taxes and from the proceeds thereof shall
discharge and pay the license fee due on such machine or device and his or her
costs, including the costs of impounding, storage, penalties and other fees due
to the town, and the balance, if any there is, shall be forfeited to the town.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 CONTRACTORS.
   Any person, firm or corporation doing any form of construction on any
properties within the corporate limits of the town shall be required to
purchase a contractor’s license from the Town Recorder at the fee of $2 per
$100.
(Prior Code, § 4-804) (Ord. passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business, professional
calling or vocation contrary to the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.12 of this chapter, whether without obtaining a municipal business license
therefor before commencing the same or by continuing the same after the
termination of the effective period of any such municipal business license,
may, in addition to paying the prescribed license tax or fee, be liable for a
penalty of $50 for each year or fraction thereof during which has been a
default of such payment.
(Prior Code, § 5-109)
      (2)   Except as may herein be expressly provided otherwise, any person
violating any provisions under §§
110.01 through
110.12 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both fined and
imprisoned, and each day or part thereof that any violation shall continue
shall be deemed to constitute a distinct and separate offense and shall be
punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 5-111)
   (C)   Any person who knowingly violates §
110.28 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town,
and upon conviction before the Town Court, shall be fined not less than $50 and
nor more than $100 for each separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-805)
(Ord. passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 111: STORES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions; exclusion
   
111.02   License required; where obtainable; exemptions
   
111.03   Annual license tax
   
111.04   License tax for half a year or less
   
111.05   Expiration and renewal of licenses
Provisions by Store Type
   
111.20   Collection agencies
   
111.21   Employment agencies
   
111.22   Nurses registries
   
111.23   Fortune telling
   
111.24   Resident junk dealing within town limits
   
111.25   Pawnbrokers
   
111.26   Trading stamps
   
111.27   Laundromats or car washes
   
111.28   Circuses, carnivals and the like
   
111.29   Electronic or video games
   
111.30   Garage businesses
   
111.31   Hotels
   
111.32   Restaurants
   
111.33   Beauty shops, shoe shops, meat shops and filling stations
   
111.34   Medical doctors
   
111.35   Dentists
   
111.36   Physical therapists
   
111.37   Optometrists
   
111.38   Pharmacies and feed supplies
   
111.39   Beer distributors
   
111.40   Pharmaceutical distributors
   
111.41   Fairs and festivals
   
111.42   Gambling and lottery establishments
   
111.43   Liquor and wine
   
111.44   Class A—social, fraternal or private clubs
   
111.45   Class B—beer sales in convenience or general stores
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GENERAL STORE. Includes any store or stores, or any mercantile
establishment or establishments, in which goods, wares or merchandise of any
kind are purchased, ordered, sold or offered for sale, either at retail or
wholesale.
      PERSON. Includes any group or combination acting as a unit, individual,
committee, guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, partnership,
copartnership, joint venture, association, trust, firm or corporation, either
domestic or foreign, which is controlled or directed by one management or
association of ultimate management.
      SPECIAL STORE. Includes any store or stores of any mercantile
establishment or establishments in which goods, wares or merchandise of any
kind, except cigarettes, tobacco products and soft drinks, are purchased, sold
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which contains no coin-
operated device or devices owned and operated by the store proprietor.
   (B)   Exclusion. For the purpose of this chapter, no coin-operated device or
devices shall be constructed to be a STORE.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; WHERE OBTAINABLE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain
any general store or special store in the town without first having obtained a
municipal business license to do so from the office of the Town Recorder.
   (B)   The establishment, operation or maintenance of stores by the following
shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this chapter:
      (1)   The United States of America, this state and its political
subdivisions;
      (2)   Religious and charitable organizations; and
      (3)   Any person or persons engaged within the town in the business of
producing agricultural products who, individually or collectively, sell in such
store any agricultural products which he, she or they have produced.
(Prior Code, § 5-302) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   Every person establishing, operating or maintaining one or more general
stores within the town under the same general management, supervision or
ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $20 for each such store.
(Prior Code, § 5-303) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.04 LICENSE TAX FOR HALF A YEAR OR LESS.
   Each license issued for the fiscal year shall be charged the full rate.
(Prior Code, § 5-304) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.05 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All licenses shall be so issued as to expire on June 30 of each year.
   (B)   On or before July 1 of each year, every person having a license shall
apply to the Town Recorder for a renewal for the license year next ensuing
unless such person has ceased to operate such store or does not propose to
continue operation of the store during the year next ensuing.
   (C)   Each application for a renewal shall be accompanied by a filing fee of
$1 for each license requested by the license tax as prescribed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-305) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
PROVISIONS BY STORE TYPE
§ 111.20 COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   Persons owning and operating a collection agency shall hereinafter be taxed
$100 annually.
(Prior Code, § 5-306) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.21 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES.
   Persons owning and operating an employment agency shall hereinafter be taxed
$200 annually.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.22 NURSES REGISTRIES.
   Persons owning and operating a nurses registry shall hereinafter be taxed
$25 annually.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.23 FORTUNE TELLING.
   The act of fortune teller, palmist, phrenologist, spiritualist, medium,
clairvoyant, mind reader or any other person who performs the art or profession
of telling the past or future shall hereinafter be taxed $200 annually.
(Prior Code, § 5-309) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.24 RESIDENT JUNK DEALING WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   Hereinafter, a resident junk dealer within the town limits or a nonresident
junk dealer not living in the town limits shall be taxed an annual fee of $125.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.25 PAWNBROKERS.
   Persons owning or operating a pawn shop within the town limits will be taxed
an annual fee of $100.
(Prior Code, § 5-311) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.26 TRADING STAMPS.
   The annual license fee to pass out trading stamps through current businesses
in the town will hereinafter be $175 for each separate business by the same
person.
(Prior Code, § 5-312) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.27 LAUNDROMATS OR CAR WASHES.
   Persons owning and operating coin-operated devices, such as laundromats or
car washes, on or before July 1 of each year will be taxed an annual fee of
$250. The liability for the licensee to operate any type of coin-operated
device shall be upon the owner of the machine or machines. The leasing of such
a machine or machines shall not be considered as a transfer of ownership of the
machine, and where a lessor-lessee relationship exists, the lessor shall be
liable for the applicable license and fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-313) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.28 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Municipalities are authorized to impose a license tax on circuses,
menageries and various other shows which are itinerant in nature and which are
not exhibited in theaters or other permanent places for public shows. A daily
license fee for circuses, carnivals and the like is $5 for each transport
vehicle, $5 for each concession stand and $5 for each skill game.
   (B)   Further, no “fortune teller” is permitted at any circus, show or
street carnival.
(Prior Code, § 5-314) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 ELECTRONIC OR VIDEO GAMES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ELECTRONIC OR VIDEO GAME.
         (a)   Includes games which, for a fee, allow the player to manipulate
characters, paddles, weapons or the like upon a video screen or playing
surface.
         (b)   Those particular games constituted as ELECTRONIC OR VIDEO GAMES
shall be determined in the sound discretion of the Town Recorder.
   (B)   Fee. The annual license tax to operate or maintain an electronic or
video game shall be a flat fee of $250.
   (C)   Liability; exemption.
      (1)   The lessor of such a machine shall be liable for the license tax if
a leasing or rental arrangement is involved; otherwise, the owner of such
machine shall be liable for the license tax.
      (2)   This section shall exempt public corporate bodies which are owners
or act as lessors of such games from the payment of the license tax.
(Prior Code, § 5-315) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.30 GARAGE BUSINESSES.
   The annual license tax shall be $20 to maintain and operate a garage
business.
(Prior Code, § 5-316) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.31 HOTELS.
   To keep or maintain a hotel where rooms are kept for transient guests, there
shall be an annual license tax of $20.
(Prior Code, § 5-317) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.32 RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   To keep or maintain a restaurant or eating place not operated in
connection with any hotel or tavern, there shall be an annual license tax of
$20.
   (B)   For each lunch wagon (mobile food cart or food truck), there shall be
an annual license tax of $20.
(Prior Code, § 5-318) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.33 BEAUTY SHOPS, SHOE SHOPS, MEAT SHOPS AND FILLING STATIONS.
   To maintain and operate the aforesaid, there shall be an annual license tax
of $20.
(Prior Code, § 5-319) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.34 MEDICAL DOCTORS.
   To operate and maintain the practicing office of a doctor or surgeon, there
shall be an annual license tax of $25.
(Prior Code, § 5-320) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.35 DENTISTS.
   To operate and maintain the practicing office of a dentist, there shall be
an annual tax fee of $25.
(Prior Code, § 5-321) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.36 PHYSICAL THERAPISTS.
   To operate and maintain the practicing office of a physical therapist, there
shall be an annual tax fee of $25.
(Prior Code, § 5-322) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.37 OPTOMETRISTS.
   To operate and maintain the practicing office of an optometrist, there shall
be an annual tax fee of $25.
(Prior Code, § 5-323) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.38 PHARMACIES AND FEED SUPPLIES.
   To maintain and operate the aforesaid, there shall be an annual license tax
of $20.
(Prior Code, § 5-324) (Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.39 BEER DISTRIBUTORS.
   To operate and maintain the practice of beer distributor, there shall be an
annual license tax of $250.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.40 PHARMACEUTICAL DISTRIBUTORS.
   To operate and maintain the practice of distributor of pharmaceuticals,
there shall be an annual license tax of $100.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.41 FAIRS AND FESTIVALS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   To operate and maintain a fair or festival in the town, there shall
be an annual license fee of $20, and a professional vendor permit fee of $5 per
occasion, and a hobby permit fee of $0 per occasion.
      (2)   The fair or festival committee will be responsible for collecting
the fee from the vendor and paying such to the Town Recorder along with a list
of the vendor name, address and telephone number paying the permit fee, whereas
the Town Recorder then will issue the permit and furnish such to the fair or
festival committee to give to the vendor.
   (B)   Exception. The Lost Creek Community Fall Festival, at the Town
Council’s discretion, may be exempt from a municipal business license.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.42 GAMBLING AND LOTTERY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   To operate and maintain a gambling or lottery establishment within the town,
there shall be an annual license fee of $250.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.43 LIQUOR AND WINE.
   (A)   To operate and maintain an establishment within the town where liquor
or wine is sold or consumed in the establishment, there shall be an annual
license fee of $250.
   (B)   Further, no “strippers” or “exotic dancers” shall be permitted to
perform at such establishments.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.44 CLASS A—SOCIAL, FRATERNAL OR PRIVATE CLUBS.
   A Class A license shall be required to sell nonintoxicating beer and wine at
retail for consumption on the licensed premises where sold. A Class A license
shall cost $50.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 111.45 CLASS B—BEER SALES IN CONVENIENCE OR GENERAL STORES.
   For a convenience or general store that sells chilled and unchilled beer in
bottles, cans or other sealed containers only for consumption off the premises
to the public of a legal age, there shall be an annual license fee of $50.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
Alcoholic Beverages Generally
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Tax on intoxicating liquors sold in town; exception
Nonintoxicating Beer
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   License tax; display of license; nontransferability
   
112.17   Period of license; prorating
   
112.18   License classes and fees
   
112.19   Application
   
112.20   Restrictions and requirements
   
112.21   Revocation of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES GENERALLY
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases defined in W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-3, 60-1-5 and 60-7-2 shall
have the same meanings as therein defined wherever such words and phrases are
used in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 112.02 TAX ON INTOXICATING LIQUORS SOLD IN TOWN; EXCEPTION.
    Pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-13-7, there is hereby imposed
a tax of 6% on the purchase price of any and all intoxicating liquors sold
within the city; provided, that such tax shall not apply to intoxicating
liquors sold by or purchased from holders of private club licenses issued under
the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 7.
(Prior Code, § 2-102) Penalty, see §
112.99
NONINTOXICATING BEER
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person within the town shall manufacture for sale, sell or possess for
sale any nonintoxicating beer without a town license so to do as provided in
this subchapter; provided, that nothing contained in this subchapter, and no
license or payment under the provisions hereof, shall be taken to legalize any
act which otherwise may be in violation of law or exempt any person from any
penalty prescribed for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSE TAX; DISPLAY OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Every person licensed by the state pursuant to the provisions of W.
Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 16, whether as a retailer, private club, wholesaler or
brewer of nonintoxicating beer, and who does business as such within this town,
shall pay to the town an annual license tax as provided in this subchapter upon
the payment of such annual license corresponding to the state license, which
shall be displayed at all times in a conspicuous place upon the premises
thereby licensed.
   (B)   Town licenses under this subchapter shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 PERIOD OF LICENSE; PRORATING.
   There is hereby levied and imposed by an annual license tax upon all brewers
and dealers in or of nonintoxicating beer within this town, which license
period in or of shall begin on July 1 of each year and end on June 30 of the
following year, and if granted for a less period, the same shall be computed
quarterly in proportion to the remainder of the fiscal year, as set out in §
112.18 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 LICENSE CLASSES AND FEES.
   (A)   Retail dealers. Retail dealers shall be divided into two classes,
Class A and Class B.
      (1)   Class A. In the case of a Class A retail dealer, the annual license
fee shall be $50 for beer sales and $350 for wine and liquor sales for each
place of business; the license fee for social, fraternal or private clubs not
operating for profit and having been in continuous operation for two years or
more immediately preceding the date of application shall be $50 for beer sales
and $350 for wine and liquor sales. A Class A license issued for social,
fraternal or private clubs as herein provided shall authorize the licensee to
sell nonintoxicating beer at retail for consumption only on the licensed
premises where sold. All other Class A licenses shall authorize the licensee to
sell nonintoxicating beer at retail for consumption on or off the licensed
premises.
      (2)   Class B. In the case of a Class B retailer, there shall be two
types of Class B license. The fee for a Class B license authorizing the sale of
unchilled beer only shall be $50. The fee for a Class B license authorizing the
sale of both chilled and unchilled shall be $50. A Class B license shall
authorize the licensee to sell nonintoxicating beer at retail in bottles, cans
or other sealed containers only, and only for consumption off the licensed
premises. Sales under this license to any person at one time must be in less
quantities than five gallons. Such license may be issued only to the proprietor
or owner of a grocery store. For the purpose of this section, the term GROCERY
STORE means and includes any retail establishment, commonly known as a grocery
store or delicatessen, where food or food products are sold for consumption off
the premises.
   (B)   Wholesalers. In the case of a wholesaler, the license fee shall be $80
for each place of business.
   (C)   Brewers. In the case of a brewer with its principal place of business
located in this town, the license fee shall be $250 for each place of
manufacture.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 APPLICATION.
   All licenses under the provisions of this subchapter shall be issued by the
Town Recorder upon written application thereof verified by the applicant under
oath. Application forms shall be furnished by the town, designed to elicit all
information necessary for the Town Record to determine the eligibility of the
applicant for the license applied for; the amount of the license fee; the
location within the town of the premises to be licensed and whether or not such
premises and structures comply with all applicable provisions of state law,
this code and other [missing text]
(Prior Code, § 2-204) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
[missing text]
   (F)   For any licensee to transport, sell, deliver or purchase any beer or
product of the brewing industry upon which there shall appear a label or other
informative date which in any manner refers to the alcoholic content of such
beer or product of the brewing industry, or upon the label of which there
appear the word or words “strong,” “full strength,” “extra strength,” “prewar
strength,” “high tent” or other similar expressions bearing upon the alcoholic
content of such products of the brewing industry, or which refers in any manner
to the original alcoholic strength, extract or balling proof from which such
beverage was produced;
   (G)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises any lewd, immoral or
improper entertainment, conduct or practice;
   (H)   For any licensee, except the holder of a license to operate a private
club issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 7, to possess a
federal license, tax receipt or other permit entitling, authorizing or allowing
such licensee to sell liquor or alcoholic drink;
   (I)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his or her
premises by enclosure, drapes or any means which would prevent a plain view of
the patrons occupying such premises;
   (J)   All premises shall be properly lighted at all times;
   (K)   For any licensee to print, paint or place upon the door, window or in
any place public in or about the premises the word “saloon,” or similar words
to be used in any advertisement by the licensee;
   (L)   For any retail licensee to permit loud, boisterous or disorderly
conduct of any kind upon his or her premises or to permit loud music. No
licensee shall have in connection with his or her place of business any
loudspeaker located on the outside of the premises;
   (M)   For any person whose state licenses have been revoked as provided in
W. Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 16, to obtain employment with any retailer within the
period of one year from the date of such revocation, or for any retailer to
employ knowingly any such person within this time;
   (N)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport or distribute
beer, except in the original container;
   (O)   For any licensee to permit any act to be done upon the licensed
premises the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws of the
state;
   (P)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of beer upon his or
her licensed premises; and
   (Q)   For any licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees, or for any
licensee by or through such servants, agents or employees, to allow, suffer or
permit any person under the age of 21 years to loiter in or upon any licensed
premises; except, however, that the provisions of this division (Q) shall not
apply where such person under the age of 18 years is in or upon such premises
in the immediate company of his or her parents, or where and while such person
under the age of 21 is in or upon such premises for the purpose of and actually
making a lawful purchase of any items or commodities therein sold, or for the
purchase of and actually receiving any lawful service therein rendered,
including the consumption of any item of food, drink or soft drink therein
lawfully prepared and served or sold for consumption on such premises.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Town Council shall revoke the license granted to any licensee under this
subchapter, subject to an appeal of any licensee to a court of competent
jurisdiction, whenever such licensee has his, her or its license revoked by the
state’s Nonintoxicating Beer Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 11, Art. 16, as last amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-206) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   A violation of any section of §§
112.01 or
112.02 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for
each separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
112.20 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished for each offense by
a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $500, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the
Court.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Public Dance Halls
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Compliance with town ordinances
   
113.03   Sanitation and lighting
   
113.04   Intoxication, indecency or disorderly conduct
   
113.05   Admission of persons under 16 years
 
   
113.99   Penalty
PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any hall, room, place or space in which a public dance may be
held to which admission can be had by the payment of a fee, or by the purchase,
presentation or possession of a ticket or token, or in which a charge is made
for dancing, or in which is held any other dance to which the public generally
may gain admission or dance with or without the payment of a fee.
(Prior Code, § 9-123)
§ 113.02 COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN ORDINANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, agent or manager of any public
dance hall within the town to hold, or permit to be held, therein any dance at
any time unless the dance hall shall comply with and conform to all ordinances
and regulations of said town for the protection of the public from fires, and
unless said hall is properly ventilated and supplied with toilet conveniences
and is otherwise a safe and proper place for the purpose for which it shall be
used.
(Prior Code, § 9-123) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 SANITATION AND LIGHTING.
   All public dance halls shall be kept at all times in a clean, healthful and
sanitary condition, and said dance hall and all stairways and other passages
and all rooms connected with the dance hall shall be kept open and well lighted
at all times while dances are being held.
(Prior Code, § 9-123) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 INTOXICATION, INDECENCY OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, lessee, agent or manager of
any public dance hall, or the agents, employees or servants of any owner,
proprietor, lessee, agent or manager, to knowingly permit within said hall or
in any room, passage, stairway or entrance thereto or exit therefrom any
violation of any of the ordinances of the town; or to permit any drinking of
intoxicating liquors therein; or to permit any persons to enter said dance hall
while under the influence of intoxicating liquors or to remain in said hall
while so intoxicated; or to permit any person or persons to commit any indecent
or immoral act or engage in any disorder of lewd or vulgar character; and a
town officer, upon the happening of any of the aforesaid offenses in any public
dance hall where any dance is being held, if he or she sees or has cause to
believe that any such offense was done or committed with the knowledge or
permission of, or acquiescence in, by the owner, proprietor, lessee, agent or
manager, shall arrest him or her and, upon conviction before the Mayor, such
hall shall be deemed a public nuisance and such police officer is hereby given
the power and authority at any time, in his or her discretion, to cause said
hall to be vacated and the dance closed.
(Prior Code, § 9-123) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 ADMISSION OF PERSONS UNDER 16 YEARS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, lessee, agent or
manager of any public dance hall, or the agents, servants or employees of them,
to knowingly permit at any time while a dance is being held within any person
to enter said dance hall or to take part in said dance who has not actually
attained the age of 16 years unless such person be accompanied by his or her
parents, or either of them, or by a legal or suitable guardian.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to represent himself or herself to
have attained the age of 16 years in order to obtain admission to a public
dance hall, or to be permitted to remain therein, when such person is in fact
not 16 years of age, and it shall be unlawful for any person, in order that
such person may obtain admission at a public dance hall, when the person making
the representation is not in fact a parent or guardian of such minor person.
(Prior Code, § 9-123) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who violates or fails or refuses to comply with any of the
provisions of §§
113.02 through
113.05 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 9-123)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License requirement
   
114.03   Application procedure
   
114.04   Standards for issuance
   
114.05   Revocation procedure
   
114.06   Standards for revocation
   
114.07   Appeal procedure
   
114.08   Exhibition of identification
   
114.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
114.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
114.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
114.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Town Administrator. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above,
has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 114.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Town
Administrator after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
114.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
§ 114.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 114.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
114.04 or
114.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of
Commissioners. The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of
Commissioners, within 14 days after notice of the decision has been mailed to
such person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds
for appeal. The Board of Commissioners shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same
manner as provided in §
114.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Commissioners after the hearing shall be
final.
§ 114.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 114.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 114.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
114.10 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
114.10 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES BASED UPON AGE
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND THE PUBLIC
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES BASED UPON AGE
Section
   
130.01   Carrying or shooting air guns and the like by persons under 16
   
130.02   Sale of cigarettes and tobacco to persons under 18
   
130.03   Curfew
   
130.04   Contributing to the delinquency of minors
   
130.05   Negligence of parents, guardians and the like respecting minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CARRYING OR SHOOTING AIR GUNS AND THE LIKE BY PERSONS UNDER 16.
   No person under the age of 16 years shall shoot, carry or have in his or her
possession upon any street, road, alley, park or other public place in the town
any gun, pistol, rifle, air gun, bean shooter, slingshot or other dangerous
weapon of any character.
(Prior Code, § 9-126) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 SALE OF CIGARETTES AND TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER 18.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the town to
sell, offer for sale or give away or furnish, or cause to be given away or
furnished, to any person under the age of 18 years any cigarette or cigarette
papers to be filled with smoking tobacco for smoking use, and it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the town to sell, give away or
furnish, or cause to be given away or furnished, to any person under the age of
18 years any cigar, pipe tobacco or tobacco in any form.
(Prior Code, § 7-419) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is an exemption to division (B) above that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) above is
present.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF MINORS.
   Any person who shall in the town, by any act, cause, encourage or contribute
to the delinquency of a child, or to the dependency or neglect of a child as
these terms, with reference to children, are defined in the statutes of this
state, or who shall for any cause be responsible therefor, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense against the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-122) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS AND THE LIKE RESPECTING MINORS.
   (A)   Any person who is a parent, guardian or has legal or actual control of
any child who is under 18 years of age shall cause the child for whom he or she
is a parent, guardian or has legal or actual control of to comply with any and
all of the provisions of the ordinances of the town that may be applicable to
such child.
   (B)   Any parent, guardian or person having legal or actual control of said
minor child or children who shall by any act or refusal to act, or by failure
to exercise reasonable human skill, care and foresight, permit such child or
children to violate the provisions of the ordinances as hereinbefore cited
shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-121) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
130.01 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 9-126)
   (C)   Any person who violates or fails or refuses to comply with any of the
provisions of §
130.03 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 9-120)
   (D)   Any person who shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
as set out in §
130.04 of this chapter, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 9-122)
   (E)   Any person deemed guilty of an offense against the town as set out in
§
130.05 of this chapter, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 9-121)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND THE PUBLIC
Section
   
131.01   Assault and battery
   
131.02   Weapons and firearms generally
   
131.03   Shooting firearms
   
131.04   Abandoned refrigerators and other air-tight appliances
   
131.05   False emergency alarms
   
131.06   Disturbing assemblies
   
131.07   Disturbing the peace
   
131.08   Breaches of the peace
   
131.09   Profane, vulgar or indecent language
   
131.10   Malicious mischief involving property
   
131.11   Alcohol prohibitions generally
   
131.12   Public drunkenness
   
131.13   Bringing alcohol to or being intoxicated in public dance halls
   
131.14   Gambling
   
131.15   Loitering
   
131.16   Disorderly houses
   
131.17   Indecent or improper exposure or dress
   
131.18   Obscene literature and the like
   
131.19   Public nuisances affecting morality and decency
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or an assault and
battery.
(Prior Code, § 9-101) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 WEAPONS AND FIREARMS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful, without a state license therefor pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 61-7-3, for any person to carry in any manner whatsoever or to expose or
brandish any razor, dirk, knife, blackjack, brass knuckles, pistol, revolver or
any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument. However, the foregoing
prohibition shall not apply to persons exempted under W. Va. Code §§ 61-7-
3 through 61-7-6, as last amended.
(Prior Code, § 9-110) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 SHOOTING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to shoot or discharge any
firearm:
   (A)   Across or in any public road, street, alley or highway at any time;
   (B)   Within 400 feet of any schoolhouse or church;
   (C)   Within 500 feet of any dwelling or business house; or
   (D)   On or near any park or other place where persons are gathered and
assembled.
(Prior Code, § 9-127) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER AIR-TIGHT APPLIANCES.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under his or her control, in a place accessible to children, any
refrigerator or other air-tight or semi-air-tight container which has a
capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more and an opening of 50 square
inches or more, and which has a door or lid equipped with a hinge, latch or
other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without rendering
such equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches or other
hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other air-
tight or semi-air-tight container stored in that part of a building which is
occupied by a dealer, warehouse person or repair person.
   (C)   The imposition of any penalty for a violation of this section shall
not excuse the violation, neglect or noncompliance of any person violating,
neglecting or failing to comply with the provisions of this section. These
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violation; should neglect
or noncompliance continue, this shall constitute a separate offense. The
application of any applicable penal provision shall not be held to prevent the
removal of the prohibited conditions, and the town shall have the right, in
addition to any penal provisions, to proceed in any court having jurisdiction
for the correction of the same by any lawful procedure provided for by the
status of the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-115) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 FALSE EMERGENCY ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally make, turn in or give a
false alarm of fire, explosion or impending danger of explosion, or of need for
police or ambulance assistance, or to aid or abet in the commission of such an
act.
(Prior Code, § 9-113) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to disturb, molest or
interrupt any dance, church or religious meeting, literary society, school,
lecture, public speech, opera, concert, theater, show, society formed for the
intellectual, moral or physical improvement of its members or any peaceable and
lawful assemblage of the inhabitants of the town for amusement, social or
deliberative purposes or any lawful and orderly procession in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-124) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb, tend to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive or obstreperous conduct, and no person
shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any premises owned or possessed by him
or her or under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 BREACHES OF THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to:
      (1)   Contend with angry words to the disturbance of the peace;
      (2)   Make an affray;
      (3)   Threaten to beat, wound or kill another; or
      (4)   Commit violence against ones person or his or her property.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of an offense against the town and, upon conviction before the Mayor
thereof, be fined according to the statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 9-125) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 PROFANE, VULGAR OR INDECENT LANGUAGE.
   No person shall use any profane, vulgar or indecent language in or near any
public street or other public place or in or around any place of business open
to the use of the public in general.
(Prior Code, § 9-107) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF INVOLVING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful and deemed to be malicious mischief for any person to
maliciously or wantonly damage, deface, destroy, conceal, tamper with, remove
or withhold any real or personal property which does not belong to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 9-116) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 ALCOHOL PROHIBITIONS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
   (B)   Drink alcoholic liquor in a public place;
   (C)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor to another person in a public
place;
   (D)   Drink alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle on any street or in a public
garage;
   (E)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of one gallon
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the state’s Alcohol Beverage Control
Commission without first having obtained written authority from the Commission
therefor; or
   (F)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk in a public place or in any
other place open to public view.
(Prior Code, § 9-117) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 BRINGING ALCOHOL TO OR BEING INTOXICATED IN PUBLIC DANCE HALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, while under the influence of liquor, to
go to, about or into any public dance hall, or entrance thereto, or room
directly opening into such dance hall; or to carry in his or her possession or
cause to be carried for his or her use any wine, home brew, beer or other
spirituous or intoxicating liquors to, about or into such hall, or room
connected with the same, or to store or conceal the same on or about any such
premises whatsoever; or to give any of said liquors to any person or persons at
any time while said dance is being held.
(Prior Code, § 9-123) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gaming tables and the like. It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or exhibit a gaming table commonly called a craps table, roulette table or
any other gaming table or device of like kind under any denomination, or which
has no name, whether the gaming table, bank or device be placed with cards,
dice or otherwise, or to be a partner or concerned in interest in keeping or
exhibiting such table, bank or gaming device of any character.
(Prior Code, § 9-111)
   (B)   Betting. It shall be unlawful for any person at any place, public or
private, to bet or wager money or other things of value on any game of chance,
or to knowingly furnish money or other things of value to any other person to
bet or wager on any such game.
(Prior Code, § 9-112)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.15 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi- public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private property
utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person
to block, obstruct or prevent free access to the entrance to any building open
to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other bodily
gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a disorderly house or house of
ill fame for the purpose of prostitution or lewdness or where drunkenness,
quarreling, fighting or other breaches of the peace are carried on or permitted
to the disturbance of others.
(Prior Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.17 INDECENT OR IMPROPER EXPOSURE OR DRESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to publicly appear naked or in any
indecent or lewd dress, or to otherwise make any indecent exposure of his or
her person.
(Prior Code, § 9-106) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.18 OBSCENE LITERATURE AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to publish, sell, exhibit or distribute,
or possess for the purpose of loaning, selling or otherwise circulating or
exhibiting, any book, pamphlet, ballad, movie film, filmstrip, phonograph,
record or other written, printed or filmed matter containing obscene language,
prints, pictures or descriptions manifestly intended to corrupt the morals of
the youth or tending to corrupt the public morals.
(Prior Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.19 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALITY AND DECENCY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. A thing, act, failure to act, occupation or use of
property which:
         (a)   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or
repose of any considerable number of persons;
         (b)   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct or tend to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage any public park, public playground, street, alley
or highway;
         (c)   Shall in any way render any considerable number of persons
insecure in life or in the use and enjoyment of their property; or
         (d)   Shall pollute or contaminate the water of the town or any of its
tributaries lying within the corporation limits as provided by the ordinances
of the town respecting the same.
(Prior Code, § 9-129)
   (B)   Prohibitions. The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances
affecting the public morals and decency:
      (1)   All gambling devices, unlawful slot machines and punch boards;
      (2)   All houses, apartments, tenements or any part or parts thereof kept
for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual intercourse; gambling
houses and houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
      (3)   Any vehicle used for immoral or illegal purposes;
      (4)   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines and
newspapers;
      (5)   The public use of profane or obscene language; and
      (6)   All pool rooms where minors under the age of 18 years are permitted
to enter and are permitted to loaf and loiter therein where punch boards, slot
machines or other schemes, devices or apparatus are kept and promoted which
constitute games of chance, gambling devices or any other schemes, by whatever
name known, which are classed as and are defined by state statute as games of
chance.
(Prior Code, § 9-131)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   A violation of any of the prohibitions set forth in §§
131.01,
131.02,
131.04,
131.05,
131.07,
131.09,
131.10,
131.12 or
131.14 through
131.18 of this chapter shall be punishable by fines not to exceed $1,000, or
confinement in the County Jail not to exceed six months, or both. Any violation
continuing from day to day shall constitute separate individual violations and
may be prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 9-118)
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
131.03 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 9-127)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
131.06 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 9-124)
   (E)   A violation of any provision of §
131.11 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $50 for
each separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
   (F)   Any person who violates or fails or refuses to comply with any of the
provisions of §
131.13 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not less
than $10 nor more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 9-123)
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall knowingly cause or create
any public nuisance, as set out in § 131.20 of this chapter, to be created or
placed upon or to remain upon any premises owned or occupied by him, her or
them in the town shall, upon conviction thereof before the Town Council, be
deemed guilty of an offense against the town and shall, in addition to all
other penalties provided for in this code or any other ordinance of the town,
be punished by a fine not to exceed $100, and each day the nuisance is
maintained or harbored shall constitute a separate offense and may be proceeded
against by separate prosecution until such nuisance is abated.
(Prior Code, § 9-131)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
132.01   Resisting arrest
   
132.02   Resisting or interfering with a police officer
   
132.03   Impersonating a government officer or employee
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   By threats, menacing acts and otherwise, to forcibly and illegally hinder,
obstruct and oppose, or attempt to obstruct and oppose, an officer in this
state in the lawful exercise and discharge of his or her official duties by
unlawfully beating with his or her fists, kicking with his or her feet,
grabbing and otherwise opposing an officer, a duly appointed member of the
town’s Police Department, while said officer was attempting to lawfully arrest
said criminal will automatically be a fine and/or time in jail.
(Prior Code, § 1-907) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH A POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall in any way resist or in any way interfere with or attempt to
interfere with any police officer while the latter is in the discharge, or
apparent discharge, of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 9-108) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 IMPERSONATING A GOVERNMENT OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   No person other than an official police officer of the municipality shall
wear the uniform, apparel or badge, or carry any identification card or other
insignia of office like or similar to, or a colorable imitation of, that
adopted and worn or carried by the official police officers of the town;
furthermore, no person shall deceitfully impersonate or represent that he or
she is any other government officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 9-109) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Resisting arrest as set out in §
132.01 of this chapter will automatically be a fine of up to $500 and/or one
year in jail.
(Prior Code, § 1-907)
   (C)   A violation of any of the prohibitions set forth in §§
132.02 or
132.03 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or
confinement in the County Jail not to exceed six months, or both. Any violation
continuing from day to day shall constitute separate individual violations and
may be prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 9-118)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Inspector; powers and duties
   
150.02   Inspections
   
150.03   Records; public inspection
   
150.04   Permit, plan approval requires conformance
   
150.05   Placards; issuance and display
   
150.06   Building permit fees
   
150.07   House trailers
Technical Codes Adopted
   
150.20   Code adoption; updating provisions
   
150.21   State, national and international codes adopted
   
150.22   Conflicting ordinances
   
150.23   Enforcement
   
150.24   Appeals; fee
   
150.25   Savings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, which will be an authorized representative of
the Mayor, shall receive all applications required to be submitted to him or
her. He or she shall make or cause to be made all inspections required to be
made by him or her and issue all permits and certificates required to be issued
by him or her by this code or by any technical code adopted by this Title XV.
   (B)   He or she shall examine premises for which permits have been issued
and make necessary inspections to ensure that the provisions of law are
complied with and that construction and other work is prosecuted safely. He or
she shall, when requested by a proper authority or when the public interest so
requires, make investigations in connection with matters referred to in the
technical codes and render written reports thereon. To enforce compliance with
the law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure the necessary
safeguards during construction and to require adequate exit facilities in
buildings and structures, he or she shall issue such notice or orders as may be
necessary.
   (C)   The Building Inspector may request and shall receive, so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation
of local law enforcement, the Fire Chief and other town officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 4-101) (Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 150.02 INSPECTIONS.
   Inspections required under the provisions of the technical codes shall be
made by the Building Inspector or his or her duly authorized agents. The
Building Inspector or Mayor may accept reports by any inspectors of recognized
services after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No
certificate called for by any provision of any technical code shall be issued
on such reports unless they are in writing and certified to by a responsible
officer of such service.
(Prior Code, § 4-101) (Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 150.03 RECORDS; PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   Comprehensive records of applications, of permits issued, of
certificates issued, of inspections made, of reports rendered and of notices or
orders issued are to be kept. File copies of required plans and all documents
relating to building work, so long as any part of the building or structure to
which they relate may be in existence, are to be kept.
   (B)   All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours but shall not be removed from the
office of the Mayor or Recorder without written consent from the Building
Inspector or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 4-101) (Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 10-5-2021) Penalty,
see §
150.99
§ 150.04 PERMIT, PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRES CONFORMANCE.
   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been determined
that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with the
requirements of this code and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 150.05 PLACARDS; ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY.
   In addition to the building permit, the Permit Officer shall issue a
placard, which shall be displayed on the premises during the time construction
is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the building permit, the
date of its issue and be signed by the Permit Officer.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 10-5-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Applications for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to
the town, based upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction, as
determined by the Permit Officer, at the following cost rates.
 
Estimated Cost             Fee
$0 to $500                 $5
$501 to $1,000             $10
$1,001 to $10,000          $30; $2 each additional $1,000 or part thereof
Mobile homes (single wide) $300
 
(Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
§ 150.07 HOUSE TRAILERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, locate or occupy any house
trailer or portable building unless it complies with all building ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 7-404) Penalty, see §
150.99
TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.20 CODE ADOPTION; UPDATING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   One of the purposes of the governing body of the town is providing
additional safety to life and property from fire and other hazards incident to
the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of
buildings, structures or premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
   (B)   As new amendments to the technical codes are updated, it is the duty
of the Building Inspector and/or Mayor to file a copy of each thereof in the
office of the Recorder or Clerk and to notify the Town Council of such filings
and his or her recommendations, if any, as to such changes therein as he or she
may deem advisable in the interest of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-702)
§ 150.21 STATE, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby amends its “Ordinance to Provide For the
Adoption of the Revised Standards and Requirements of the State Building Code
Promulgated by the West Virginia State Fire Commission and Established by
Legislative Rule,” passed May 4, 2021, or any other ordinances previously
adopted concerning building codes, by adopting and incorporating by reference,
as if set out at length herein, for the purposes of safeguarding life and
property and to ensure the quality of construction of all structures erected,
renovated or removed throughout the town, that certain code known as the State
Building Code, set forth and defined by 87 CSR 4 by the State Legislature by
Legislative Rule, as amended, as promulgated by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to authority granted in W. Va. Code § 29-3-5b.
   (B)   The standards and requirements as set out and published by the
International Code Council, and American National Standards Institute, and the
National Fire Protection Association, as listed below, and as adopted by the
State Fire Commission with an effective date of August 1, 2022, shall have the
same force and effect as if set out verbatim herein:
      (1)   International Building Code, 2018 (with amendments);
      (2)   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings,
2018 (with amendments);
      (3)   International Existing Building Code, 2018 (with amendments);
      (4)   International Plumbing Code, 2018;
      (5)   International Mechanical Code, 2018;
      (6)   International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 (with amendments);
      (7)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2018;
      (8)   National Electric Code, 2020;
      (9)   ICC/ANSI A 117.1 Standards for Accessibility and Usable Buildings
and Facilities, 2017;
      (10)   ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1, 2013 (for commercial buildings);
      (11)   International Energy Conservation Code, 2015 (for residential
buildings); and
      (12)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2021; Ord. passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any existing municipal ordinance that is more stringent or imposes a
higher standard than is required by the codes referenced in §
150.21 of this chapter shall govern, provided such ordinance is not
inconsistent with the laws of the state and is not contrary to recognized
standards and good engineering practices.
   (B)   Any existing municipal ordinance that is less stringent or imposes a
lesser standard than is required by the codes referenced in §
150.21 of this chapter is hereby amended to comply therewith.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2021)
§ 150.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other personnel, officer or official authorized to
investigate and enforce the provisions of this subchapter, the town’s Building
Inspector, Deputy Building Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer shall have
the authority to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Subject to any and all rights of appeal, whenever reasonable grounds
exist to believe that a violation of this subchapter has occurred, the
investigating officer may forthwith summon, by the issuance of a citation, the
owner, tenant, occupant and/or other person or persons responsible to appear
before the Judge of the Municipal Court for the town and to answer said charge
on or before a date therein stated.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2021)
§ 150.24 APPEALS; FEE.
   (A)   Each of the national codes adopted herein provides for a separate
appeals board. However, the intent and requirements for an appeals board may be
met with the creation by the local jurisdiction of a single appeals board for
the entire State Building Code pursuant to W. Va. Code § 87-4-7.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by any action or decision pursuant to §
150.23 of this chapter or the relevant penalties in §
150.99 of this chapter may appeal to the Board of Appeals within 30 days from
the date of the action or decision in question. The fee to appeal said decision
under §
150.23 is $500.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall consist of five members, with up to three
alternates, who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters
pertaining to building construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction.
They may include, but are not limited to, a state-registered professional
architect or engineer or a state-licensed general building, residential,
electrical, piping, plumbing, mechanical or fire protection contractor with at
least ten years of experience, five of which shall be in responsible charge of
work.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2021)
§ 150.25 SAVINGS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding pending in any court, or rights acquired or liability incurred, or
any cause or causes under any act or ordinance repealed; nor shall any just or
legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-2021)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.06 of this chapter, including the technical codes which constitute part of
this chapter, shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction, shall pay a
fine to the town of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, plus the cost of
prosecution, and all such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violation(s) or noncompliance within a reasonable time set by the Building
Inspector. Failure to comply with these provisions may be declared by the Town
Council to be a public nuisance and be abated as such. Any person in violation
of these provisions will be liable to the town for any cost or expenses
incurred for such abatement.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
   (C)   (1)   A party charged with a violation of §§
150.21 through
150.25 of this chapter and the building codes laid forth therein shall be
assessed a penalty of $100 for the first violation, $200 for the second
violation and $300 for the third and subsequent violations. These penalties are
to be assessed at the discretion of the town’s Building Inspector, Deputy
Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Each day an unabated condition continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 3-4-2008; Ord. passed 5-4-2021; Ord. passed 10-5-2021)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Authority
   
151.002   Intent
   
151.003   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.004   Applicability
   
151.005   Matters not provided for specifically
   
151.006   Jurisdictional boundary changes
   
151.007   Application to government entities
   
151.008   Liability
   
151.009   Definitions
Special Flood Hazard Area Established
   
151.020   Identification
   
151.021   Descriptions of special flood hazard areas
   
151.022   Changes in designation of area
   
151.023   Boundary disputes
   
151.024   Elevations prevail
Utilization of Special Flood Hazard Area
   
151.035   Floodway
   
151.036   Floodway fringe
   
151.037   AE without floodway
   
151.038   Approximated floodplain (Zone A)
   
151.039   Alteration or relocation of a stream
Building and Site Plan Approval Criteria
   
151.050   Permits required
   
151.051   Basic format of permits
   
151.052   Elevation and flood-proofing information
   
151.053   Site plan criteria
   
151.054   Subdivision restrictions in special food hazard areas
Specific Requirements
   
151.065   Design and construction standards apply
   
151.066   Basements and lowest floors
   
151.067   Manufactured home placement
   
151.068   Appurtenant structures
   
151.069   Recreational vehicle placement
   
151.070   Fill
   
151.071   Placement of structures and other development
   
151.072   Anchoring
   
151.073   Flood protection setback
   
151.074   Storage
   
151.075   Utility and facility requirements
   
151.076   Drainage
   
151.077   Backflow preventers
Administration
   
151.090   Floodplain Administrator designated
   
151.091   Development permits and site plan approvals required
   
151.092   Application procedures
   
151.093   Approval of permits and plans
   
151.094   Changes to applications, permits or plans
   
151.095   Permit placards; display requirements
   
151.096   Start of construction
   
151.097   Inspections
   
151.098   Stop-work orders
   
151.099   Violation notices and revocations
   
151.100   Certificates of compliance
   
151.101   Fees
Appeals
   
151.115   Appeals
   
151.116   Appeal review criteria; requirements for variance
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter have been prepared with the intention
of meeting the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., amended by the Congress of the United States through
the February 15, 1975, Pub. Law No. 91-152.
   (B)   The authority to adopt, administer and enforce this chapter is vested
in the town pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 7-1-3n, 7-1-3v, 7-1-3kk and 8-12-14 and
W. Va. Code §§ 8A-4-2, 8A-5-7 and 8A-7-2.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.002 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the town;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future and protect natural
drainage;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting the water
supply and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian;
   (D)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning the
improvement of real property as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a;
   (E)   Assure County E-9-1-1 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency
of established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (F)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the town, its governmental units
and its residents by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.003 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business
or corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any development, new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage or the
placement or relocation of any structure, including manufactured homes, within
the town unless a permit application has been completed and a permit or
certificate of compliance has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
In addition, where land partially or fully in the special flood hazard area is
to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or
otherwise developed as defined in this chapter, a site plan with elevation data
shall be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to
any development.
   (B)   The provisions of all other codes, ordinances and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.005 MATTERS NOT PROVIDED FOR SPECIFICALLY.
   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided for
herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent and shall require the
applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.006 JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   (A)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets or exceeds the requirements for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (B)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to the annexation of any area containing identified
flood hazards.
   (C)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the special flood hazard
area boundaries, base flood elevation and location of floodways, where
determined.
   (D)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), all NFIP participating
communities will notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the
State Coordinating Office in writing whenever the boundaries of the town have
been modified by annexation or the town has otherwise assumed or no longer has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area. In order that all flood insurance rate maps accurately
represent the town’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the town suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the town has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority, shall be included with the notification.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.007 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT ENTITIES.
   Unless specifically exempted by law, all public utilities and municipal,
county, state and federal entities are required to comply with this chapter and
obtain all necessary permits. Any entity claiming to be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter shall provide a written statement setting forth
the rationale for the exemption. In addition, the entity claiming exemption
shall provide copies of all relevant legal documentation demonstrating the
exemption.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.008 LIABILITY.
   The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or development plan in
an identified flood-prone area shall not constitute a representation, guarantee
or warranty of any kind by the town, or by any official or employee thereof, of
the practicability or safety of the proposed use and shall create no liability
upon the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BFE. The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to the datum specified on the town’s flood insurance rate map. For
the purposes of this chapter, the 100-year flood or 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Shall be construed as if followed by the phrase “or
part thereof.”
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that all development is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the special flood hazard area used to balance the loss
of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed
within the special flood hazard area.
   CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   A person who in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure or excavation associated with a project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $1,000 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee.
      (2)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
         (a)   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
         (b)   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases, whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
         (c)   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional, and
who functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board,
whose primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management
and maintenance, who, acting in his or her respective professional capacity,
and any employee of such professional acting in the course of his or her
employment, performs any work which may be considered to be performing
contracting work;
         (d)   A pest-control operator licensed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code § 19-16A-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire unless the
operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property treated
for insect pests; or
         (e)   A corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship whose primary
purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
contractors defined in this section and who employs full-time a registered
architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which even a slight chance of flooding is
too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, the storage of critical records and similar
facilities. These should be given special consideration when formulating
regulatory alternatives and floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY
should not be located in a special flood hazard area if at all possible. If a
CRITICAL FACILITY must be located in a special flood hazard area, it should be
provided a higher level of protection so that it can continue to function and
provide services during a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or the storage of
equipment or materials.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or DFIRM. A flood insurance rate map that
has been made available digitally.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the town.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information and water
surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; or
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduces or eliminates flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. A FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to the flood heights of any
given flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream
crossings and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed. A FREEBOARD
also tends to lower the cost of flood insurance.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE or HAG. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the development or structure foundation. This
is primarily used during the insurance rating in approximated floodplains.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the State Code.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME RETAILER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in the State Code.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the state’s Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in the State Code.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE or LAG. The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the proposed development or structure
foundation. The primary use of the LAG is to determine whether the structure is
located within a special flood hazard area by comparing it to the base flood
elevation.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood-resistant materials,
as defined in FEMA’s Technical Bulletin 2, and usable solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure has
proper flood openings and is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction, as herein
defined, commenced on or after March 4, 1988, and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after the effective
date of the first floodplain ordinance adopted by the town and before the
effective start date of the floodplain management ordinance codified in this
chapter is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the permit was
issued, provided the start of construction was within 180 days of permit
issuance.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100, or a 1% chance,
of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   ORDINANCE. Refers to the Floodplain Ordinance.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
      (1)   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code Art. 13,
the adequate performance of which requires engineering education, training and
experience in the application of special knowledge of the mathematical,
physical and engineering sciences to such services or creative work as
consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning and design of engineering
works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of advanced
engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the review of
construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications, any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress and completion of any engineering services. ENGINEERING
SURVEYS include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance and operation of engineered
projects.
      (2)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code Art.
13, or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs,
any engineering service or work or any other service designated by the
practitioner which is recognized as engineering, is considered to PRACTICE OR
OFFER TO PRACTICE ENGINEERING within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code Art.
13.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVEGROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is aboveground.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water should not
damage structures, and any subsurface waters related to the base flood should
not damage existing or proposed structures.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   When measured at the largest horizontal projection, is 400 square
feet or less;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered or
licensed as a registered professional engineer by the state’s Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers as required under W. Va. Code Art. 13
et seq.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the noncompliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
   SHALL. Is always mandatory.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in flood insurance
studies and on flood insurance rate maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30 and A99.
This term shall also include areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are
specifically listed or otherwise described in this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the permit was issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond initial excavation or the placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a permit must be obtained
prior to beginning, permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of
streets or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For an
alteration, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The state’s Division of Homeland Security and
Emergency Management.
   STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3u, any watercourse, whether natural
or human- made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood- related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for the improvement of a structure
to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety
code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (3)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that would
constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT as defined above must comply with all
ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific chapter
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from chapter requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   For the purpose of this definition, IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
   TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the TOP OF BANK. In the field, a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF BANK. When a professional is
not employed, the TOP OF BANK may be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the water’s edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all the requirements of this chapter. Any structure or other development
lacking the certifications, finished construction elevation certificate or
other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WILL. Is always mandatory.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see W. Va. Code § 21-11-3(c)
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA ESTABLISHED
§ 151.020 IDENTIFICATION.
   The identified special flood hazard areas shall be those areas of the town
which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) and described in the flood insurance study (FIS) prepared for the
town by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated October 2, 2012,
or the most recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as
part of the FIS. The identified special flood hazard areas shall also be those
special flood hazard areas identified by the town by use of historic or other
technical data and shown on an officially recognized “local flood hazards map.”
These areas shall be designated, as appropriate, with the level of technical
data described below and shall be managed accordingly.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.021 DESCRIPTIONS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The identified special flood hazard areas shall consist of the following
four specific areas.
   (A)   Floodway. The floodway shall be those areas of AE Zone identified as
floodways in the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include any
floodway areas delineated by developers in the approximated floodplain and
designated as such by the community.
   (B)   Floodway fringe. The floodway fringe shall be those areas of AE Zone
for which specific 100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but
which lie beyond the floodway area.
   (C)   AE Area without floodway. The AE area without floodway shall be those
areas identified as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA
for which 100-year flood elevations have been provided but no floodway has been
delineated.
   (D)   Approximated floodplain. The approximated floodplain shall be those
areas identified as an A Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA
and for which no 100-year flood elevations have been provided.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.022 CHANGES IN DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The delineation of the identified special flood hazard areas may be
revised by the town where natural or human-made changes have occurred or more
detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a
river basin commission or other qualified agencies or individuals document the
necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such change, approval must be
obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (B)   The town’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practicable,
but not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, the town shall notify the NFIP Administrator of the changes by
submitting technical or scientific data.
   (C)   The town may identify and regulate new local flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas may be delineated on a local flood hazard map using the best
available topographic data and locally derived information, such as floods of
record, historic high water marks or approximate study methodologies.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.023 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning the location of proposed development relative to
a special flood hazard area arise, an initial determination shall be made by
the Floodplain Administrator, and any party aggrieved by this decision may
appeal to the town. The burden of proof shall be on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.024 ELEVATIONS PREVAIL.
   (A)   Elevation data certified by a licensed professional surveyor or
registered professional engineer shall be submitted in sufficient detail to
allow a thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   The proposed development will automatically conform to the flood
damage reduction requirements of this chapter if the natural lowest adjacent
grade (LAG) to the proposed development is at or above the closest applicable
base flood elevation (BFE) specified in the flood insurance study. The
applicant shall be advised to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA to have the special flood hazard area designation removed from the
structure or specific area. If the difference between LAG and BFE is modest,
the applicant will also be advised to use caution during site preparation or
excavation, and information concerning the preferred risk policy should be
provided.
   (C)   (1)   The proposed development shall be considered to be within the
special flood hazard area if the natural LAG to the proposed development is
below either:
         (a)   The closest applicable BFE specified in the flood insurance
study; or
         (b)   The reasonably safe from flooding elevation determined by the
town in approximate floodplains.
      (2)   The proposed development shall then be required to conform to all
appropriate flood damage reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
UTILIZATION OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
§ 151.035 FLOODWAY.
   (A)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development, shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the town
during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The resultant engineering
study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Because floodways present increased risks to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      (1)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below,
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued.
      (2)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative, the applicant
shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum necessary to
accomplish the project.
      (3)   All permitted uses, activities and development shall be undertaken
in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained
herein and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
      (4)   In special flood hazard areas for which no regulatory floodway has
been designated, the regulatory floodway for a small, single-lot development
not incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the
town, be determined to be the channel of the stream and the adjacent land areas
to a distance of one-half the width of the special flood hazard area as
measured from the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland limit of the
1% annual chance special flood hazard area boundary.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.036 FLOODWAY FRINGE.
   Within any floodway fringe area, any development or use of land shall be
permitted, provided that all such uses, activities or development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the flood- proofing and related provisions
contained herein and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.037 AE WITHOUT FLOODWAY.
   Within any AE without floodway area, no new construction or development
shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than
one foot at any point. This requirement can be satisfied by utilization of the
floodway, where determined.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.038 APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN (ZONE A).
   Within any approximated floodplain:
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state or other acceptable sources, when available, to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   (1)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed, all
proposed development to determine:
         (a)   The amount being invested; and
         (b)   The specific flood risk at the site.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the applicant to
determine the elevation above which the development will be reasonably safe
from flooding using elevation data, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses or other
techniques. When hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall
only be undertaken by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Any development or use of land shall be permitted, provided that all
such uses, activities or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance
with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and in all
other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
Editor’s note:
   See Appendix 4.4 for sample “Approximated Floodplain (Zone A) Techniques.”
§ 151.039 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF A STREAM.
   (A)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within the
special flood hazard area, the developer shall notify in writing, by certified
mail, the town, the Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office,
any adjacent communities and any adjacent property owners of all such intended
activities prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all
required notifications must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA). In addition, prior to issuing the local permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require copies of all necessary permits from those
governmental agencies from which federal or state law requires approval.
   (B)   The developer shall also assure the town in writing that the flood-
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of the stream will provide
equal or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   The alteration of a stream includes the placement of culverts, bridges
or other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain “best practice” techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
   (D)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts and other stream crossings
shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this chapter.
   (E)   The developer is required to provide the town with a legal agreement
detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed on altered
or relocated watercourses, including culverts, bridges and other stream
crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer this
agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999 of this chapter.
   (F)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the Floodplain
Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA for this
purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
Editor’s note:
   See Appendix 4.5 for sample “Stream Alteration Process and Contact Sheet.”
BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL CRITERIA
§ 151.050 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Permits are required in order to determine whether all new construction or
substantial improvements are:
   (A)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway or other special flood
hazard areas;
   (B)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA’s Technical Bulletin 2, or the most recent revision
thereof;
   (D)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   To comply with W. Va. Code § 11-3-3a concerning the County Assessor’s
“Building or Real Property Improvement Notice;” and
   (G)   Approved by the County Health Department for Water and Sewer to assure
facilities are designed or located in compliance with the flood damage
reduction requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 BASIC FORMAT OF PERMITS.
   The basic format of the permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of the owner of the land on which the proposed
development is to occur;
   (C)   Names, addresses and valid state license numbers of all contractors
working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is being
performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing as set forth in CSR
Title 28, Series 2, § 3.9(b), or the most recent revision thereof;
   (D)   A description of the site location sufficient to locate the project,
including the tax map and parcel number and most recent deed book and page
number;
   (E)   A standard site plan showing the size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation or top of fill, the base flood
elevation and the location of the floodway boundary, when applicable;
   (F)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
151.100 of this chapter;
   (G)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
   (H)   The contract required by CSR Title 28, Series 4, and all addendums to
the contract(s) shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator for review
within five business days of contract signing. The town does not require and
will not keep copies of the contracts or addendums. Failure to present
contracts or addendums for review shall void the permit. If a licensed
contractor is not involved or the work is of an aggregate value of less than
$10,000, including materials and labor, a brief written description of the
proposed work and the estimated value will suffice.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.052 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING INFORMATION.
   (A)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation
requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the
freeboard height required by this chapter.
   (B)   Depending on the type of structure involved, the following information
shall also be included in the application for work within the special flood
hazard area:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above base flood elevation.
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of the elevation of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure,
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         (f)   A finished construction elevation certificate shall be prepared
by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualifications.
The elevation certificate shall confirm that the structure in question,
together with attendant utilities, is elevated in compliance with permit
conditions; and
         (g)   1.   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the town determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a nonconforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas below
base flood elevation that are five feet high or more).
            2.   This agreement shall state:
               a.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted
for use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
               b.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature; a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999 of this chapter.
      (2)   For structures to be flood-proofed to two feet above base flood
elevation (nonresidential structures only).
         (a)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum flood-
proofing requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the level of flood-proofing above the height
required by this chapter. In order to obtain an “elevation credited” flood
insurance rate on dry flood-proofed buildings, flood-proofing must extend at
least one foot above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Plans showing details of all flood-proofing measures, prepared
by a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed
structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (c)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, lowest floor and flood-proofing limits,
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor; and
         (d)   A flood-proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the
plans in division (B)(2)(b) above, stating that the finished structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, is designed so that:
            1.   The structure is water-tight, with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyancy, impact and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (3)   For appurtenant structures constructed of flood-resistant materials
used solely for parking vehicles or limited storage (appurtenant structures
only).
         (a)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or
others of demonstrated qualifications showing the elevation of the existing
ground, proposed finished ground and lowest floor. The plan shall also show
details of proposed flood-resistant material usage and the size of the proposed
structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The
location of the floodway boundary shall be represented on the plan when a
floodway is present on the site;
         (b)   1.   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction,
must be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications.
            2.   The elevation certificate shall confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities, is designed so that:
               a.   Flood-resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 2, are used in the construction of the structure from the lowest
structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation and that all
utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation; and
               b.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters; designs for meeting
this requirement shall either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
                  i.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
                  ii.   The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than one
foot above grade.
                  iii.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves
or other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters.
         (c)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
151.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.053 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Site plans are required for all development, new construction and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a special flood hazard
area and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   The owner or developer shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information:
      (1)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision or
development with respect to special flood hazard areas, proposed lot sites and
fills;
      (2)   Name of the registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
      (3)   Where the subdivision or manufactured home park lies partially or
completely in special flood hazard areas, the plan map shall include detailed
information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads, public
utilities and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet, depending upon the slope of the land, and
identify accurately the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas. A
registered professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor shall
certify the site plan;
      (4)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place, either fully or partially, within the approximated
floodplain and which are greater than ten lots or two acres, whichever is the
lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and shall delineate a floodway
when directed to do so by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (a)   When a flood insurance study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study shall be used to substantiate the base flood.
         (b)   If a FEMA flood insurance study is not available, the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service or
a state and local water resource department.
         (c)   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a flood insurance study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
      (5)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially in
the special flood hazard area and all proposed development, including fill,
will take place on natural grade a significant vertical distance above the
approximated floodplain area (Zone A) boundary depicted on the map, the
development of detailed base flood elevation data may not be necessary. In
these cases, the site plan for the proposed development must show contours at
intervals of two or five feet, depending on the slope, and clearly delineate
the area to be developed and the location of the special flood hazard boundary
area as scaled from the FEMA map. A registered professional engineer or
licensed professional surveyor shall certify the site plan.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.054 SUBDIVISION RESTRICTIONS IN SPECIAL FOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The subdivision of land in the special flood hazard area shall result in
lots that include a buildable portion outside of the special flood hazard area
and be served by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not
lower than one foot below the elevation of the line defining the special flood
hazard area limits. All new structures shall be sited on the portion of the
subdivided lot that is located outside of the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.065 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS APPLY.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction and to the
construction of substantial improvements, and the repair of substantial damage,
to existing structures occurring in the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.066 BASEMENTS AND LOWEST FLOORS.
   (A)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation and
substantial improvements, including the repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures. All new construction, relocation and
substantial improvements, including the repair of substantial damage, of
nonresidential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is water-tight, with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
   (C)   Openings.
      (1)   For all new construction, relocation and substantial improvements,
and the repair of substantial damage, those fully-enclosed areas below the
lowest floor that are usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Non-conversion agreements.
      (1)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant on all
flood-proofed structures and any elevated structures when the town determines
that the area below the first floor could be converted to a nonconforming use
(generally applies to enclosed areas below base flood elevation that are five
feet high or more).
      (2)   This agreement shall state:
         (a)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature; a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
151.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 MANUFACTURED HOME PLACEMENT.
   Certain unique characteristics of manufactured homes installed in special
flood hazard areas pose an elevated risk to safety and substantial damage to
property, therefore:
   (A)   (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the special flood
hazard areas of the town shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid
state manufactured home installer’s license. The licensed manufactured home
installer shall use an installation design engineered to withstand flood
hazards specific to the particular home site.
      (2)   Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within
special flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance with the following
standards.
         (a)   The lowest floor, duct work and utilities, including HVAC/heat
pump, shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   The elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent
foundation, or shall use foundation elements of at least equivalent strength
engineered for use in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating
dry stacked-block piers shall not be used in special flood hazard areas.
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of W.
Va. Code of State Rules Tit. 42, Series 19, §§ 10.1, 10.2 and 10(b), as
authorized by W. Va. Code § 21-9-4, or the most recent revisions thereof. The
anchoring shall be adequate to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, over-the-top and
frame ties attached to permanent foundation elements. Ground anchors may not be
adequate to satisfy flood-specific anchoring requirements. This requirement is
in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces.
         (d)   1.   Permanently attached rigid skirts or perimeter wall skirts
of brick or block shall have openings to prevent collapse and damage to
supporting piers. The openings shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
            2.   Designs for meeting this requirement shall either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than one
foot above grade.
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
   (B)   The licensed state manufactured home installer placing the unit shall
perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the manufactured home has
been installed to the standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.068 APPURTENANT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, appurtenant structures shall
be located out of the special flood hazard areas or elevated to two feet above
the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal structure
are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the following flood
damage reduction provisions apply.
      (1)   Use of the structure shall be restricted to parking or limited
storage.
      (2)   Structures shall be not more than 200 square feet in size and
valued at less than $5,000.
      (3)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
      (4)   Structures shall be located, oriented and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
      (5)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (6)   Flood-resistant materials, as detailed in FEMA’s Technical Bulletin
2, shall be used in the portions of the structure below BFE.
      (7)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances and all utilities shall
be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (8)   The venting requirements contained in §
151.066 of this chapter are applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
   (C)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant stating
that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or attached garage shall
not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that the structure may be
subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood insurance premiums may be
possible, and that a change in use may require full compliance with this
chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence of
this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature; a copy of all
new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to
transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain
Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
151.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.069 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PLACEMENT.
   Recreational vehicles to be placed within any special flood hazard area
shall either:
   (A)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick-disconnect utilities and security devices and has no
permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.070 FILL.
   The town officially recognizes the beneficial functions the floodplain
serves in the storage and transportation of water during floods, therefore:
   (A)   The placement of fill in the special flood hazard area is discouraged
and should be minimized;
   (B)   No fill shall be permitted in the floodway;
   (C)   The placement of fill in other areas of the special flood hazard area
shall be restricted to functional purposes, such as elevating a structure. Fill
shall only be permitted in the same permit with the related structure or other
functional purpose. Placement of fill to dispose of spoil from excavation or to
elevate yards, parking lots or fields will not generally be considered a
functional purpose. The Floodplain Administrator may require the developer to
provide compensatory storage before permitting fill; and
   (D)   No fill shall be permitted unless it meets the requirements of §
151.035 of this chapter. All fill placed in the special flood hazard area shall
meet or exceed the following standards.
      (1)   (a)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The town may require the applicant to
demonstrate through engineering reports that proposed fill would not adversely
affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
shall be undertaken only by a registered professional engineer, who shall
certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted
technical concepts. The resultant study shall include a cover letter, signed
and sealed by the responsible professional, providing a statement of findings
in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses, computations and the like shall
be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the
town.
         (b)   During permit review, the town shall consider the following
issues that have the potential to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
            1.   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
            2.   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
            3.   Deflection of floodwaters onto adjacent existing structures;
            4.   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating
erosion problems; and
            5.   Other unique site conditions may be considered when
determining whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property,
including, but not limited to, subsidence areas, Karst topography, stream
blockages and steep topography adjacent to the channel.
      (2)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or system.
      (3)   The filled site shall be contoured to drain properly (avoid
ponding).
      (4)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required below. For nonresidential structures, fill shall be placed to
provide access acceptable for the intended use. At grade access, fill extending
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line shall be provided to a minimum of
25% of the perimeter of a nonresidential structure.
      (5)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on-
site.
      (6)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary stability
and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling. Fill compaction standards
shall be appropriate to the proposed post-fill use; particular attention is
necessary when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
      (7)   Fill slopes shall be not steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (8)   The fill site and fill shall be protected from erosion.
         (a)   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less will be
protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
         (b)   Fill slopes exposed to floodwaters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second
will be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
      (9)   All applicants placing fill in a special flood hazard area shall
obtain a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant shall convert the CLOMR to a letter of map revision
based on fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
      (10)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the flood insurance study or flood insurance rate maps when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.071 PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURES AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT.
   All structures and other development shall be constructed or placed on the
lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be
designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height of
floodwater.
   (A)   Whenever possible, structures and other development shall be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
   (B)   So far as practicable, structures and other development shall be
placed approximately on the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining
structures or development.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.072 ANCHORING.
   (A)   All structures and other development, including stream crossings,
shall be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to
life and property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge
openings and other restricted sections of the watercourse.
   (B)   All air ducts, large pipes, swimming pools and storage tanks located
at or below the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist
flotation.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.073 FLOOD PROTECTION SETBACK.
   (A)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the watercourse
channel, measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the opposite bank or
50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top of the banks of
all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall be maintained in
this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the watercourse and
conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be given to
planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize the banks, enhance flood
protection and benefit aquatic resources.
   (B)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted from
division (A) above.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front and back lot line setbacks.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.074 STORAGE.
   (A)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable or explosive, or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
   (B)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood
warning.
   (C)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this chapter, material that resembles fill material
shall not be considered “storage” material for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.075 UTILITY AND FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private, shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate the infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems.
   (B)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate the infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (C)   All other new or replacement public or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
   (D)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.076 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (B)   Adequate drainage paths are required around structures on slopes
within Zones AH and AO to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.077 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   Backflow prevention valves should be used for all enclosed structures with
sewage or drainage facilities located in the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.090 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Recorder/Clerk is hereby appointed as the Floodplain Administrator
and is vested with the responsibility, authority and means to implement the
commitments made in the town’s agreement with the federal government to
administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying floodplain
development permits in accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall also be responsible for submitting
all required reports to FEMA concerning the town’s participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.091 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND SITE PLAN APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake, or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage or the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
the town unless a permit application and standard site plan has been completed
and a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator. In addition,
where land that is either partially or fully in the special flood hazard area
is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or subdivision or
otherwise developed, a detailed site plan shall be submitted to, and approved
by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.092 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for a permit or site plan approval shall be made, in writing, on
the forms supplied by the town and shall include all information stipulated
under §§
151.050 through
151.054 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.093 APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND PLANS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code § 21-11-10.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit, shall
require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is duly
licensed as a contractor under the provisions of the State Code. If the
applicant is not licensed, a written affidavit that such person is not subject
to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor, as defined in W. Va. Code § 21-
11-3, shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and placed in the
permit file.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W. Va. Code § 11-3-3(a).
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits for
new structures to the County E-9-1-1 Addressing Coordinator.
   (H)   The County E-9-1-1 Addressing Coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the County Floodplain
Administrator.
   (I)   The town shall provide sufficient space to allow the Floodplain
Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from natural
hazards, all information collected during the course of the administration of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.094 CHANGES TO APPLICATIONS, PERMITS OR PLANS.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans, specification or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.095 PERMIT PLACARDS; DISPLAY REQUIREMENTS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit placard, which shall be
prominently displayed on the premises during the time construction is in
progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of its
issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.096 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Work on the proposed development shall begin within 180 days after the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All work on
the proposed development shall be completed within 18 months of permit
issuance, at which time, the permit shall expire unless a time extension is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time
extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
   (B)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria.
      (1)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months?
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health or welfare or injurious to other property?
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.097 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon learning of a potential violation of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator or staff shall investigate to determine whether a violation has
occurred.
   (B)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or other
authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work is
progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may inspect
any development covered by this chapter or previous ordinance to determine
whether any portion of the development has been altered to be in noncompliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.098 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall immediately issue, or cause to be issued,
a stop-work order for any development found ongoing without having obtained a
floodplain determination or a permit. Disregard of a stop-work order shall
subject the violator to the penalties described in §
151.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.099 VIOLATION NOTICES AND REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   When it appears after investigation that a permitted development is
noncompliant with the provisions of this chapter or the conditions of the
permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the violator by means of a
written violation notice. The violation notice shall specify the nature of the
violation and request that the violation be corrected within 15 days from the
date appearing on the notice.
   (B)   Failure to correct the violation within this time period shall be
cause for revocation of the permit and for the governing body, or authorized
employee or agent, to:
      (1)   Seek an injunction in the County Circuit Court to restrain the
violator from continuing the violation, including, but not limited to, requests
for the removal of structures or land uses from the property involved; and
      (2)   Seek a misdemeanor conviction in Magistrate Court or Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.100 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to permit
the use or occupancy of, any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure, until a certificate of compliance
has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the building
or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Occupying or using a
building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
151.999 of this chapter.
   (B)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to inspect and approve
a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt, until the inspector
is in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by the local
Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development being
inspected conforms to the requirements of this chapter. The inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
151.999 of this chapter.
   (C)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to install a permanent
utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt, until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the development conforms to the requirements of this chapter. The installation
of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
151.999 of this chapter.
   (D)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the local Floodplain
Administrator upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (E)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood-proofing
certificate or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.101 FEES.
   (A)   A floodplain determination fee shall be assessed on all proposed
development. This shall be a flat fee approved by the town.
   (B)   Proposed development determined to be occurring in a special flood
hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be assessed an additional fee,
payable to the town, based upon a set schedule approved by the town using the
estimated value of the proposed construction as determined by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (C)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the
town for any additional costs for services necessary for the review or
inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit toward these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services.
   (D)   (1)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which
a permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit, the fees above specified shall be doubled. The additional
fee is intended to partially reimburse the county for the additional cost of
processing permits for work already underway. To more fully recover this cost,
the fees above shall be tripled for every subsequent occurrence by the same
person.
      (2)   Payment of the increased fee shall not relieve any person from
complying fully with the requirements of this chapter in the execution of the
work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
APPEALS
§ 151.115 APPEALS.
   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provisions of this chapter, it is the right
of that person to appeal to the Town Council, which shall be known as the
Appeals Board. Such appeal shall be filed with the Town Council, in writing,
within 30 days after notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal,
the Appeals Board shall set a time and place not less than ten nor more than 60
days for the purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be given to all parties, at which time, they may appear and be
heard. The determination by the Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.116 APPEAL REVIEW CRITERIA; REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative substantial
damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement or the freeboard
requirement may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Board.
   (B)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter shall
adhere to the following criteria.
      (1)   An affirmative decision shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the appeal would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of an appeal will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing locals laws or ordinance.
      (2)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
      (3)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   (a)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant, in writing,
over the signature of a town official that:
            1.   The issuance of a decision to allow the construction of a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood elevation increases
risks to life and property.
         (b)   Such notifications shall be maintained with a record of all
decisions as required in division (B)(4)(a) above.
      (5)   The Appeals Board shall:
         (a)   Maintain a record of all decisions, including justification for
their issuance; and
         (b)   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
      (6)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any construction,
development, use or activity within any floodway area that would cause any
increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or of
any other authorized employee of the town, shall be unlawful and shall be
referred to the prosecuting attorney, who shall expeditiously prosecute all
such violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the town of
not less than $50 or more than $500, plus the cost of prosecution. In default
of such payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten
days. Each day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are hereby
reserved, including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of this
chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance with this chapter or permit it to continue, and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or noncompliance within
a reasonable time.
   (C)   Any structure constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered or
relocated in noncompliance with this chapter may be declared by the Town
Council to be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Obstructions in rights-of-way
   
152.02   Obstructing streets or sidewalks
   
152.03   Dirt and filth on streets or sidewalks
   
152.04   Tearing up streets, sidewalks and the like
Sidewalks
   
152.15   Paving or repairing sidewalks; notice and abatement; cost constitutes
a lien
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 OBSTRUCTIONS IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No person by himself, herself or an agent shall place or leave in any
street, alley, road or highway in the town any carcass of any dead animal,
lumber, wood, logs, any machine, vehicle, conveyance or implement abandoned or
habitually placed thereon, whether abandoned or not, within the bounds of the
aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 7-410) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, leasee or one in control of real estate
abutting any street, road, alley or highway within the town to cut or fell
trees or branches into said street, road, alley or highway, or permit dead
limbs overhanging the same, or permit dead trees to stand on his or her real
property near the same so as to endanger or obstruct the free use and travel
thereon, or to kill a tree and leave it standing within 50 feet of the streets,
roads, alleys or highways within the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-413) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 DIRT AND FILTH ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any real property abutting upon any
sidewalk within the town, or his or her lessee or his or her agent, to drop,
throw, sweep or otherwise deposit any dirt, filth, paper or other litter of any
sort upon any sidewalk or street, alley, road or highway with the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-411) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 TEARING UP STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tear up any
street, sidewalk, road, highway, alley or foot pathway within the town without
permission from the Mayor thereof; and it is further unlawful for any such
person, firm or corporation, after tearing up the same under permission
aforesaid, not to repair, replace and smooth over the surface of the same; and
further, all such persons shall at any place so torn up or being in the process
of repair, at any holes, excavations, piles of dirt or material placed thereat,
station a night guard to the same or keep a flare to shine at night.
(Prior Code, § 4-803) Penalty, see §
152.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.15 PAVING OR REPAIRING SIDEWALKS; NOTICE AND ABATEMENT; COST CONSTITUTES
A LIEN.
   If any owner or occupier of real property abutting upon any sidewalk,
footway, street or highway in the town shall fail or refuse to pave, re-pave,
curb or re-curb or repair such sidewalk in front of said real estate of the
material and in the manner and form, after reasonable notice in writing upon
the owner or occupier thereof, to do so, the Council may proceed to build or
reconstruct the same in front of said property; to assess the expense thereon
upon the owner; certify the amount for collection to the Treasurer of the town,
who shall record a certified copy thereof in the proper offices; and with the
County Clerk, the Council shall collect the same from such owner or occupier in
like manner as fines and taxes, and this shall constitute a lien upon said
property enforceable in the same manner as prescribed by law. The Council may,
at its election, sue before a competent court, obtain judgment for the same and
collect it under execution.
(Prior Code, § 4-801) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
152.02 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10.
(Prior Code, § 7-413)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
152.03 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-411)
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
152.04 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Court, shall be fined not more than $50.
(Prior Code, § 4-803)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with §
152.15 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense against the town
and, upon conviction before the Town Judge thereof, shall be fined not more
than $50.
(Prior Code, § 4-802)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Granting electric franchise to Monongahela Power
-             - -        Company
                          (Prior Code, §§ 10-101—10-108)
10-109        12-6-2011   Granting cable television franchise to Cequel III
                          Communications II, LLC, for ten years
                         
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             5-2-2006    Abandoning northern end of a 15-foot unimproved alley
                          between Lots 33, 34, 35, 36, 38 and 39
                         
 
TABLE III: RIGHTS-OF-WAY
 
Ord./Res. Date      Description
No.       Passed
R. -      12-2-2003 Naming or changing the names of streets to comply with the
                    9-1-1 naming conventions project
                    Accepting the public dedication of Bond Street, formerly
-         9-2-2014  known as Orchard Street, in Randolph and Lowther’s Second
                    Addition
                   
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W. Va. Code Cite Code Section
W. Va. Code Cite    Code Section
Art. 13             151.009
Art. 13 et seq.     151.009
2-2-8               10.06
2-2-9               10.06
2-2-10(3)           10.03
2-2-12              10.03
Ch. 3               30.28
7-1-3n              151.001
7-1-3u              151.009
7-1-3v              151.001
7-1-3kk             151.001
8-1-3               71.022
8-10-1              32.03
8-10-2              32.03
8-11-1              10.10
8-12-5              91.45
8-12-5(10)          91.45
8-12-5(13)          91.45
8-12-5(22)          91.45
8-12-5(43)          91.45
8-12-5(57)          91.45
8-12-14             151.001
8-13-7              112.02
Ch. 8, Art. 15      33.15
Ch. 8, Art. 21      31.30
Ch. 8A, Art. 2      92.06
8A-4-2              151.001
8A-5-7              151.001
8A-7-2              151.001
                    151.002;
11-3-3a             151.050;
                    151.093
11-12-86            93.01
Ch. 11, Art. 13     34.17
Ch. 11, Art. 13C    34.32
                    112.16;
Ch. 11, Art. 16     112.20;
                    112.21
11-16-3             112.01
15A-11-3            93.02
Ch. 16, Art. 2      92.06
Ch. 16, Art. 2A     92.06
Ch. 16, Art. 3      92.02
                    91.45;
17-24A-1 et seq.    91.47;
                    91.49
17-24A-3            91.46
17A-10-1            70.01
17B-1-1             70.02
17B-2-3(a)          70.59
17B-3-4             71.019
17C-1-2—17C-1-20  70.01
17C-1-24            70.01
17C-1-25            70.01
17C-1-26            70.01
17C-1-29—17C-1-44 70.01
17C-1-50—17C-1-60 70.01
17C-1-62—17C-1-69 70.01
17C-2-1             70.02
17C-2-2             70.99
17C-2-3             70.03
17C-2-4             70.04;
                    70.05
17C-2-5             70.06
17C-2-6             70.07
17C-2-9             70.08
17C-3-1             71.003
17C-3-4             71.001;
                    71.999
17C-3-4a            71.002;
                    71.999
17C-3-4b            71.003;
                    71.999
                    71.015;
17C-6-1             71.016;
                    71.019;
                    71.999
17C-6-3a            71.020;
                    71.999
17C-6-5             71.017;
                    71.999
17C-6-6             71.021
17C-6-7             71.022
17C-6-11            71.018;
                    71.999
17C-7-1             71.055;
                    71.999
17C-7-2             71.059;
                    71.999
17C-7-3             71.060;
                    71.999
17C-7-5             71.061;
                    71.999
17C-7-6             71.062;
                    71.999
17C-7-7             71.063;
                    71.999
17C-7-9             71.056;
                    71.999
17C-7-11            71.057;
                    71.999
17C-7-12            71.058;
                    71.999
17C-8-1             71.075
17C-8-2             71.077;
                    71.999
17C-8-3             71.078;
                    71.999
17C-8-4             71.079;
                    71.999
17C-8-5             71.076
17C-8-6             71.080;
                    71.999
17C-8-8             71.076;
                    71.999
17C-9-1             71.036
17C-9-2             71.037
17C-9-3             71.038
17C-9-4             71.039
17C-9-5             71.040
17C-9-6             71.999
17C-12-5            71.038
17C-12-6            71.035;
                    71.999
17C-13-1            72.01;
                    72.99
                    72.02;
17C-13-3            72.03;
                    72.99
17C-14-4            70.20;
                    70.99
17C-14-5            70.21;
                    70.99
17C-14-6            70.22;
                    70.99
17C-14-9            70.23;
                    70.99
17C-14-13           72.04;
                    72.99
                    70.55—
17C-14-15           70.62;
                    70.99
17C-15-1            70.35;
                    70.36
17C-15-2            70.37
17C-15-3            70.38;
                    70.39
17C-15-3(b)         70.40
17C-15-4            70.39
17C-15-5            70.40
17C-15-6            70.99
17C-15-15(c)        70.37
17C-15-20           70.36
17C-15-22           70.36
                    70.01;
17C-15-26           70.06;
                    71.040
17C-15-31           70.99
17C-15-32           70.99
17C-15-46           70.41;
                    70.99
17C-16-1 et seq.    91.46
Ch. 17E             70.59;
                    71.019
Ch. 19, Art. 4      34.31
19-16A-7            151.009
19-20-6             90.20
19-20-7             90.20
21-9-4              151.067
21-11-3             151.093
21-11-3(c)          151.009
21-11-10            151.093
29-3-5b             150.21
Ch. 31C             34.31
46A-4-102           34.29
50-6-2              10.10
Ch. 60              131.11
60-1-5              112.01
                    34.31;
Ch. 60, Art. 7      112.02;
                    112.20
60-7-2              112.01
60A-1-101           70.01
60A-1-101—60A-11-670.01
60A-2-203—60A-2-2170.01
61-7-3              131.02
61-7-3—61-7-6     131.02
87-4-7              150.24
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code 2024 Code
1-101      30.50
1-102      30.51
1-103      30.52
1-104      30.53
           30.55;
1-201      30.99;
           36.01
1-202      30.03;
           36.03
1-203      36.04
1-204      36.05
1-206      36.02
1-207      36.06
1-208      36.99
1-301      30.01
1-401      30.02
1-402      30.02
1-403      30.02
1-501      30.04;
           31.15
1-502      31.15
1-503      31.15
1-504      31.15
1-505      31.15
1-601      34.01
1-602      35.02
1-603      35.03
1-604      35.01;
           35.99
1-605      30.54
1-801      30.15
1-802      30.18
1-803      30.16
1-804      30.19
1-805      30.22
1-806      30.21
1-807      30.24
1-808      30.25
1-809      30.17
1-810      30.27
1-811      30.20
1-812      30.20
1-813      30.26
1-814      30.28
1-815      30.23
1-816      30.99
1-817      30.30
1-818      30.29
1-819      30.32
1-820      30.32
1-821      30.31
1-822      30.33
1-823      30.34
1-824      30.35
1-825      30.36
1-826      30.37
1-827      30.38
1-828      30.39
1-901      33.35
1-902      33.36
1-903      33.36
1-904      33.40
1-905      33.41
1-906      32.02
1-907      132.01;
           132.99
1-908      33.42
1-909      33.37
1-910      33.38
1-911      33.39
1-912      33.99
1-1001     32.01
1-1002     32.03
1-1003     32.04
1-1004     32.05
1-1005     32.06
1-1006     32.07
1-1007     32.02
1-1008     32.08
1-1009     32.10
1-1010     32.13
1-1011     32.09
1-1012     32.11
1-1013     32.12
1-1014     32.99
1-1101     36.20
1-1102     36.21
1-1103     36.22
1-1104     36.23
1-1105     36.24
1-1301     36.35
1-1302     36.36
1-1303     36.37
1-1304     36.38
1-1401     31.01
2-101      112.01
2-102      112.02
2-103      131.11
2-104      112.99;
           131.99
2-201      112.15
2-202      112.16
2-203      112.17;
           112.18
2-204      112.19
2-205      112.20;
           112.99
2-206      112.21
3-101      90.01
3-102      90.02
3-103      90.03
3-104      90.04
3-105      90.05
3-106      90.06;
           90.99
3-107      90.07
3-108      90.99
3-201      90.21
3-202      90.22
3-203      90.23
3-204      90.24
3-205      90.25
3-206      90.26
3-207      90.27
3-208      90.28
3-209      90.29
3-210      90.99
3-211      90.20
4-101      150.01—
           150.03
4-102      150.99
4-701      150.20
4-702      150.20
4-801      152.15
4-802      152.99
4-803      152.04;
           152.99
4-804      110.28
4-805      110.99
5-101      110.01
5-102      110.02;
           110.03
5-103      110.04
5-104      110.05
5-105      110.06
5-106      110.07
5-107      110.08
5-108      110.09
5-109      110.99
5-110      110.10
5-111      110.99
5-112      110.11
5-113      110.12
5-201      110.25
5-202      110.26
5-203      110.27
5-301      111.01
5-302      111.02
5-303      111.03
5-304      111.04
5-305      111.05
5-306      111.20
5-307      111.21
5-308      111.22
5-309      111.23
5-310      111.24
5-311      111.25
5-312      111.26
5-313      111.27
5-314      111.28
5-315      111.29
5-316      111.30
5-317      111.31
5-318      111.32
5-319      111.33
5-320      111.34
5-321      111.35
5-322      111.36
5-323      111.37
5-324      111.38
5-401      34.15
5-402      34.16
5-403      34.17
5-404      34.18
5-405      34.21
5-406      34.22
5-407      34.23
5-408      34.24
5-409      34.25
5-410      34.26
5-411      34.27
5-412      34.28
5-413      34.29
5-414      34.30
5-415      34.31
5-416      34.32
5-417      34.33
5-418      34.34
5-419      34.35
5-420      34.36
5-421      34.37
5-422      34.38
5-423      34.39
5-424      34.19
5-425      34.20
5-426      34.40;
           34.99
5-427      34.41
5-428      34.42
5-429      34.43
5-430      34.44
5-431      34.45
5-432      34.46;
           34.99
5-433      34.47
7-101      50.01
7-102      50.02
7-103      50.04
7-104      50.05
7-105      50.06
7-106      50.07
7-107      50.08
7-108      50.03
7-201      51.01
7-202      51.02
7-203      51.03
7-204      51.04
7-205      51.99
7-301      52.01
7-302      52.02
7-303      52.03
7-304      52.04
7-401      91.01
7-402      91.02
7-404      150.07
7-405      91.07
7-406      91.03
7-408      91.04
7-409      91.09
7-410      152.01
7-411      152.03;
           152.99
7-412      72.05;
           72.99
7-413      152.02;
           152.99
7-414      91.06;
           91.99
7-415      91.08;
           91.99
7-416      91.05
7-417      91.99
7-419      130.02
7-421      91.10
7-422      90.08;
           90.99
9-101      131.01
9-102      131.07
9-103      131.16
9-105      131.18
9-106      131.17
9-107      131.09
9-108      132.02
9-109      132.03
9-110      131.02
9-111      131.14
9-112      131.14
9-113      131.05
9-115      131.04
9-116      131.10
9-117      131.12
9-118      131.99;
           132.99
9-120      130.99
9-121      130.05;
           130.99
9-122      130.04;
           130.99
           113.01—
           113.05;
9-123      113.99;
           131.13;
           131.99
9-124      131.06;
           131.99
9-125      131.08
9-126      130.01;
           130.99
9-127      131.03;
           131.99
9-129      131.19
9-131      131.19;
           131.99
9-132      73.01
9-133      73.02
9-134      73.99
10-101     TSO Table I
10-102     TSO Table I
10-103     TSO Table I
10-104     TSO Table I
10-105     TSO Table I
10-106     TSO Table I
10-107     TSO Table I
10-108     TSO Table I
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        12-2-2003   TSO Table III
-        3-21-2006   33.01
-        7-7-2020    31.16—
                     31.18
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     33.15—
-        5-6-1947    33.20;
                     33.99
                     10.01;
                     10.04—
                     10.07;
-        10-2-1983   10.09;
                     10.11;
                     10.12;
                     10.99
-        5-5-1987    31.30—
                     31.33
-        3-6-1991    50.09
-        6-1-1993    34.24
-        3-7-2000    30.04
-        7-1-2003    30.39
                     35.15—
-        1-4-2005    35.21;
                     35.99
-        10-4-2005   33.02
-        2-7-2006    30.04
-        5-2-2006    TSO Table II
-        11-6-2007   30.04
                     150.01—
-        3-4-2008    150.06;
                     150.99
10-109   12-6-2011   TSO Table I
-        3-6-2012    30.04
                     151.001—
                     151.009;
                     151.020—
                     151.024;
                     151.035—
                     151.039;
                     151.050—
-        6-5-2012    151.054;
                     151.065—
                     151.077;
                     151.090—
                     151.101;
                     151.115;
                     151.116;
                     151.999
-        9-2-2014    TSO Table III
-        4-5-2016    30.39
-        3-3-2020    30.04
                     92.01—
-        7-7-2020    92.06;
                     92.20—
                     92.25
                     91.25—
7-407-B  8-18-2020   91.30;
                     91.99
                     70.01—
                     70.08;
                     70.20—
                     70.23;
                     70.35—
                     70.41;
                     70.55—
                     70.62;
                     70.99;
                     71.001—
                     71.003;
8        8-18-2020   71.015—
                     71.022;
                     71.035—
                     71.040;
                     71.055—
                     71.063;
                     71.075—
                     71.080;
                     71.999;
                     72.01—
                     72.04;
                     72.99
                     34.15—
                     34.47;
                     34.99;
-        1-19-2021   110.01—
                     110.12;
                     110.25—
                     110.28;
                     110.99
                     150.21—
-        5-4-2021    150.25;
                     150.99
                     111.01—
-        10-5-2021   111.05;
                     111.20—
                     111.45
                     150.01—
-        10-5-2021   150.06;
                     150.99
-        6-7-2022    30.39
                     93.01—
9-135    10-11-2022  93.03;
                     93.99
                     91.45—
7-423    11-1-2022   91.51;
                     91.99
-        3-5-2024    150.21
                    
 
 
