NUTTER FORT,
WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-2, current with
Ordinances passed through 7- -2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PART ONE: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
CHAPTER ONE: GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 101: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
   
101.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
101.02   General definitions
   
101.03   Rules of construction
   
101.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
101.05   Construction of section references
   
101.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
101.07   Conflicting provisions
   
101.08   Separability
 
   
101.99   General penalty
Cross References
   Authority to impose penalties, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-2(11)
   Codification of ordinances, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-4(b)
   Maximum penalty permitted, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-1, 8-12-5(57)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 101.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (a)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, chapters, articles and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Codified Ordinances of Nutter Fort, West Virginia, 2019”, for which
designation “codified ordinances” may be substituted. Code, chapter, article
and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
codified ordinances.
   (b)   All references to codes, chapters, articles and sections are to such
components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”.
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§ 101.01”.
§ 101.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Harrison County, West Virginia.
   LAND OR LANDS AND REAL ESTATE OR REAL PROPERTY. Include lands, tenements and
hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein except chattel
interests.
   LAWS OF THE STATE. Includes the Constitution of the State and the
Constitution of the United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance
thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Nutter Fort, West Virginia.
   OFFENSE. Includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture or
punishment is imposed by law.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER. Includes corporations, societies, associations and
partnerships.
   PERSONAL ESTATE or PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes goods, chattels, real and
personal, money, credits, investments and the evidences thereof.
   PRECEDING, SUCCEEDING OR FOLLOWING. Used in reference to any section or
sections of an article means next preceding, next succeeding or next following
that in which such reference is made.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and building.
   PROPERTY or ESTATE. Embraces both real and personal estate.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia or any department, division, commission,
board, educational or other institution of the state.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises alone or with others.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing, engraving, writing or otherwise. But, when the
signature of any person is required, it must be in his or her own proper
handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved or acknowledged.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
§ 101.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (b)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (c)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last; or, if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, it shall also be excluded.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-3)
   (d)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-10)
   (e)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 101.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (a)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-9)
   (b)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that, if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-8)
   (c)   The repeal by any provision of the codified ordinances of an ordinance
validating previous acts, contracts or transactions shall not affect the
validity of such acts, contracts or transactions, but the same shall remain as
valid as if there had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-11)
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (b)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (c)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances. If a section refers to a series of
numbers or letters, the first and the last number or letters in the series are
deemed to be included.
§ 101.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W.Va. Code § 2-2-5)
§ 101.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, articles or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 101.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause does not
affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part thereof.
§ 101.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any
act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
ARTICLE 105: ELECTIONS
Section
   
105.01   Adoption of state law
   
105.02   Permanent registration of voters established
   
105.03   Duties of Recorder
   
105.04   Establishment of voting precincts
   
105.05   Regular and special elections
   
105.06   Precinct election officials
   
105.07   Qualifications of candidates
   
105.08   Nomination of candidates
   
105.09   Notice of election of town officers
   
105.10   Ballots
   
105.11   Canvass
   
105.12   Compensation for election workers
Cross References
   Absentee voting in municipal elections, see W.Va. Code § 3-3-13
   Integration of municipal elections with systems of permanent registration,
see W.Va. Code § 8-5-13
   Municipal elections, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-2a
   Municipal precinct registration records, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-27
   Municipal voting precincts, see W.Va. Code § 3-1-6
   Special elections, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-15a
§ 105.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (a)   The general laws of the State of West Virginia shall apply to and
control, as near as may be, all procedures relating to elections, except as
such laws relate to political parties or partisan procedure. Council shall be
the Municipal Election Authority, and may prescribe other rules for the conduct
of other elections not inconsistent with general law or the provisions of this
article.
   (b)   The powers and duties prescribed by state law for county commissions
shall devolve upon Council, and the powers and duties prescribed by state law
for clerks of circuit courts and for clerks of county commissions shall devolve
upon the Recorder, insofar as the state law may be made applicable to municipal
elections and subject to the provisions of this article.
§ 105.02 PERMANENT REGISTRATION OF VOTERS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-5-13, the conduct of all town elections shall be
integrated with the system of “permanent registration of voters”, as set out in
W.Va. Code Art. 3-2, the provisions of which, insofar as they are applicable to
the town, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article. No voter
otherwise qualified shall be permitted to vote an unchallenged ballot at any
election within the municipality unless he or she is duly registered under the
provisions of West Virginia law. The registration record shall remain in the
possession of the Clerk of the County Commission, except for use in municipal
elections.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2005)
§ 105.03 DUTIES OF RECORDER.
   At least three days prior to each election of the town, it shall be the duty
of the Recorder to procure from the office of the Clerk of the County
Commission of Harrison County the municipal registration records necessary for
the conduct of such election. Such records shall, within ten days after the
date of the municipal election, be returned to the office of the Clerk of the
County Commission by the Recorder.
§ 105.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF VOTING PRECINCTS.
   For the purpose of all municipal elections of the town, the voting precincts
in the town shall, to the extent that they lie within the confines of the town,
coincide with the boundaries of the voting precincts as fixed by the County
Commission of Harrison County for all state and county elections; each county
precinct and each part of a county precinct within the town to constitute a
separate voting precinct of the town.
§ 105.05 REGULAR AND SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The regular election for the choice of a Mayor and a Recorder and for the
choice of five members of Council shall be held on the second Tuesday in June
in odd-numbered years. Council may, by resolution, order a special election at
any time to determine answers to questions to be submitted or for the election
of a new Council by the qualified electors of the town. Any special election of
Council shall be held as nearly as is practicable according to the provisions
for a regular election.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2005; Ord. passed 11-25-2014)
§ 105.06 PRECINCT ELECTION OFFICIALS.
   The Recorder shall appoint, subject to the approval of Council, two
Commissioners and three Clerks to serve as election officials in each precinct
in the town. The election officials shall, as soon as possible after closing of
the polls on election day, deliver to the Recorder the ballots, tally sheets,
certificates of results of the election, registration records, ballot boxes and
other election supplies.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1981)
§ 105.07 QUALIFICATIONS OF CANDIDATES.
   Candidates for the office of Mayor, Recorder or Council member must be
residents of the town and must be qualified voters entitled to vote for members
of its governing body.
§ 105.08 NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES.
   The following shall constitute the exclusive procedure for the nomination of
candidates for municipal office in the town.
   (a)   A person shall be deemed nominated for the office of Mayor when there
is filed with the Recorder or his or her appointee a certificate of
announcement, and a filing fee of $50, filing dates to begin in January as
specified in the municipal election calendar for each election year. The
certificate of announcement declares the office for which they are running and
the filing fee is non-refundable.
   (b)   A person shall be deemed nominated for the office of Recorder when
there is filed with the Recorder or his or her appointee a certificate of
announcement, and a filing fee of $30, filing dates to begin in January as
specified in the municipal election calendar for each election year. The
certificate of announcement declares the office for which they are running and
the filing fee is non-refundable.
   (c)   A person shall be deemed nominated for the office of Council when
there is a certificate of announcement filed with the Recorder or his or her
appointee, and a filing fee of $20, filing dates beginning in January as
specified in the municipal election calendar for each election year. The
certificate of announcement declares the office for which they are running and
the filing fee is non-refundable.
   (d)   All persons who meet the above requirements shall be entitled to have
their names placed on the municipal ballot in the following municipal election
for the office for which such person was nominated. At such election, the
person receiving a plurality of votes for the office of Mayor and the office of
Recorder respectively shall be deemed elected to such offices. Of the persons
nominated for Council, the five receiving the highest number of votes for such
office shall be deemed elected to Council.
   (e)   This section is enacted to revise the method of nominating persons to
municipal offices, and it shall not be applied or construed to change or modify
the qualifications required for such offices, nor the procedures whereby such
officials are elected in municipal elections.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1992; Ord. passed 3-25-1997; Ord. passed 8-8-2000; Ord. passed
8-8-2005; Ord. passed 1-24-2017; Ord. passed 2-26-2019)
§ 105.09 NOTICE OF ELECTION OF TOWN OFFICERS.
   (a)   The Recorder shall cause to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the town at least 30 days prior to each election of town
officers a “notice of election,” in the following form:
 
There will be an election held in the Town of Nutter Fort, Harrison County, West Virginia, on the Second Tuesday in June, 2019, for the purpose of electing a Recorder and two
Council members. Rules and regulations governing the calling and conduct of nomination conventions and the certification of the results thereof may be obtained at the Town
Hall.
 
                                                                                        
Recorder
 
There will be an election held in the Town of Nutter Fort, Harrison County, West Virginia, on the Second Tuesday in June, 2021, for the purpose of electing a Mayor and three
Council members. Rules and regulations governing the calling and conduct of nomination conventions and the certification of the results thereof may be obtained at the Town
Hall.
 
                                                                                        
Recorder
 
There will be an election held in the Town of Nutter Fort, Harrison County, West Virginia, on the Second Tuesday in June, 2023, for the purpose of electing a Recorder and two
Council members. Rules and regulations governing the calling and conduct of nomination conventions and the certification of the results thereof may be obtained at the Town
Hall.
 
                                                                                        
Recorder
 
   (b)   This staggered term of election format shall continue for future
elections to be held on the second Tuesday in June in odd-numbered years.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2017; Ord. passed 2-26-2019)
§ 105.10 BALLOTS.
   (a)   The drawing for ballot positions for the municipal election shall be
held on a Tuesday (the seventh day) preceding the election. Time to be agreed
upon by Council.
(W.Va. Code § 3-6-2(d)(2))
   (b)   Ballots shall be prepared by the Recorder. The full names of all
candidates nominated for Mayor shall be arranged under the heading “Mayor”. The
full names of all candidates for the office of Recorder shall be arranged under
the heading “Recorder”. The full names of all candidates nominated for Council
shall be arranged under the heading “Council”. Nicknames may be used on the
ballot as outlined in the W.Va. Code § 3-5-13(4)(A). If two candidates for the
same office have the same surname or have names so similar as to be likely to
cause confusion, the addresses of their places of residence shall be placed
with their names on the ballot. Candidates shall be listed as to each office,
with the slate of candidates nominated by each convention. The ballots shall
bear instructions as to the number of candidates for each office for whom the
voters are entitled to vote.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1981; Ord. passed 2-13-2007; Ord. passed 1-24-2017; Ord.
passed 2-26-2019)
§ 105.11 CANVASS.
   (a)   The canvass of the election begins on the fifth day, not counting
Sunday, following the election. Do not begin the canvass on a Saturday, Sunday
or legal holiday, but do count a Saturday or holiday when counting the five
days.
(W.Va. Code § 3-6-9)
   (b)   One must have a quorum to conduct the canvass. If there is not a
quorum, the meeting must be rescheduled the next business day until a quorum is
present. The canvass is a public meeting.
   (c)   When the canvass is completed, the results of the election are
declared. After 48 hours have passed (excluding any Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday which may fall within that period), the Board of Canvassers convenes to
certify the results of the election for any office or issue for which no
recount request has been filed.
   (d)   The certification of the results of the election must be made in the
form set out in W.Va. Code § 3-6-10, giving the votes in both words and
numbers.
(Ord. passed 2-26-2019)
§ 105.12 COMPENSATION FOR ELECTION WORKERS.
   Municipal election workers shall be paid as set by the Council. Those
attending municipal election training will be allowed compensation for such
services in the amount as set by Council. After the election, the Recorder will
certify to the Treasurer a list of individuals eligible for compensation and
the amount due each.
(Ord. passed 2-26-2019)
ARTICLE 107: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
107.01   Policy and purpose
   
107.02   Office of Emergency Services created; membership
   
107.03   Powers and duties
   
107.04   Membership, duties and organization
   
107.05   Acceptance of federal or state aid
   
107.06   Director
Cross References
   Emergency services, see W.Va. Code Art. 15-5
§ 107.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   In view of the existing and increasing possibility of the occurrence
of disasters of unprecedented size and destructiveness resulting from enemy
attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from fire, flood, earthquakes or
other natural or human-made causes, and in order to ensure that preparations of
the town will be adequate to deal with such disasters, and, generally, to
provide for the defense and to protect the public peace, health and safety and
to preserve the lives and property of the people of the town, it is hereby
found and declared to be necessary:
      (1)   To create an Office of Emergency Services in the town;
      (2)   To confer upon the officials of the town the emergency powers
provided herein; and
      (3)   To provide for the rendering of emergency services within the town
and to cooperate with other governmental agencies with respect to carrying out
the emergency service functions.
   (b)   It is further declared to be the purpose of this article and the
policy of the town that all emergency services functions of the town be
coordinated to the maximum extent with the comparable functions of the county,
state and federal governments, including the various departments and agencies
thereof, as well as with other states and localities and with private agencies
of every type, so that the most effective preparation and use may be made of
the county, state and nation’s manpower, resources and facilities for dealing
with any disaster that may occur.
§ 107.02 OFFICE OF EMERGENCY SERVICES CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (a)   There is hereby created the Office of Emergency Services, which shall
consist of the following members: the Mayor, who shall be ex officio
Chairperson; the Director of Public Works; the Chiefs of Police and Fire of the
town, and one other member to be nominated and appointed by Council, not more
than three of whom shall be of the same political party. If, after the
appointment of such member, this requirement is not met, the Director of Public
Works shall be automatically disqualified from office and the Mayor shall fill
the vacancy with a registered professional engineer of the appropriate
political party.
   (b)   The terms of all ex officio members shall follow the term of their
respective municipal offices.
   (c)   The term of such registered professional engineer appointed in lieu of
the Director of Public Works shall be at the will and pleasure of the Mayor.
The term of Council’s appointee shall be until the second regular meeting of
Council following the next regular municipal election for Council members.
§ 107.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Office of Emergency Services shall include the
recommendation of a civil defense program and a program for emergency services
for the town and shall also include the following:
   (a)   Control and direction of the civil defense organization of the town;
   (b)   Control and direction of services during every type of emergency
within the town;
   (c)   Appointment of such voluntary personnel as the Office of Emergency
Services may deem advisable;
   (d)   The maintenance of necessary liaison with other municipal, area,
state, regional, federal or other civil defense or emergency services offices
or organizations;
   (e)   The marshaling, after the declaration of an emergency, of all
necessary personnel, equipment or supplies to aid the carrying out of the civil
defense plan or the emergency services plan;
   (f)   The institution of training programs and public information programs
and the taking of other preparatory steps, including partial or full
mobilization of civil defense programs and emergency services programs in
advance of actual disaster or emergency; and
   (g)   On behalf of the town and subject to approval of the Office of
Emergency Services, the entering into mutual aid arrangements with other cities
and counties in the state, and also, under authority of the state, the entering
into of reciprocal civil defense agreements and emergency services agreements
with federal agencies and other states for aid in case of disaster or
emergencies too great to be dealt with unassisted.
§ 107.04 MEMBERSHIP, DUTIES AND ORGANIZATION.
   The operational civil defense and emergency services organization of the
town shall consist of the officers and employees of the town designated by the
Mayor, as well as all volunteer municipal defense and emergency services
workers. The functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed
among such divisions, services and special staff as Council shall, by
resolution, prescribe. Insofar as possible, the form of organization and
terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the federal and state civil
defense and emergency services organization.
§ 107.05 ACCEPTANCE OF FEDERAL OR STATE AID.
   Whatever the federal or state governments, or any agency or officer thereof,
shall offer or make available to the town, services, equipment, supplies,
materials or funds by way of gift, grant, loan or matching funds, for the
purpose of civil defense or emergency services, the town, acting through the
Mayor, may accept such offer and, upon acceptance, authorize the proper offices
of the town to receive such services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds
on behalf of the town.
§ 107.06 DIRECTOR.
   Council may authorize the appointment of a Director of the Office of
Emergency Services. Upon such authorization, the Mayor is authorized and
directed to appoint a Director of the Office of Emergency Services to serve at
the will and pleasure of the Mayor.
ARTICLE 109: COMPETITIVE BIDDING
Section
   
109.01   When required
Cross References
   Purchasing; competitive bidding, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-10
§ 109.01 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (a)   Competitive bidding is required for the acquisition of materials,
supplies, services or equipment, the cost of which is expected to exceed the
sum of $50,000.
   (b)   Council shall have the right to accept or reject any or all bids and
to waive any informalities therein and in doing so Council is authorized to
consider, not only the amount of each bid, but the responsibility of the
bidder, including the bidder’s capital resources, skill and judgment and the
anticipated quality of materials and performance of services and contracts.
   (c)   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require competitive
bidding absent a specific determination by Council that certain materials,
supplies, services or equipment should be acquired by competitive bidding and
likewise nothing herein contained shall be deemed to waive competitive bidding
when the same is otherwise required by law.
   (d)   In the event an emergency occurs and a purchase of equipment or
materials must be made immediately, the Mayor would be authorized to make this
decision. In this event, the bidding process would not apply. The Mayor would
notify the Council as soon as possible or at the next Council meeting of the
said purchase.
   (e)   Competitive bidding for attorney services will not be required. Town
Council may authorize the Mayor to contact a specified attorney to provide
services for the town as needed.
(Ord. passed 7-10-2001; Ord. passed 7-26-2016; Ord. 2023-04, passed 6-27-2023)
ARTICLE 111: ETHICS
Section
   
111.01   Findings of fact
   
111.02   Amendments to state statutes
Cross References
   Conflict of interest, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-19
§ 111.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (a)   Council hereby finds that the purposes of the West Virginia
Governmental Ethics Act, being W.Va. Code §§ 6B-1-1 et seq., have reasonable,
necessary and appropriate application to matters involving all elected and
appointed municipal officials and employees, whether full or part time, who
derive a salary, payment of wages or other direct remuneration from the
municipality, and does now hereby affirm, ratify and adopt the state- defined
purposes as being the same purposes of this article, without specifically
republishing the state purposes herein.
   (b)   Council further hereby finds that for the purpose of assisting in the
administration of the provisions of this article, that various statutory
sections of the aforesaid state act shall be hereby expressly adopted and
incorporated as provisions of this article, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, and which such state statutory sections specifically hereby
adopted and incorporated herein are as follows:
      (1)   W.Va. Code §§ 6B-1-1 through 6B-1-5; and
      (2)   W.Va. Code § 6B-2-5.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the affirmation and adoption of the purposes of the
state act and further the specific adoption of the selected, statutory sections
which are immediately hereinbefore set forth in §
111.02 of this article, the Council specifically finds that certain statutory
provisions of the aforesaid state act are either inapplicable to the
administration of this article or would otherwise be unduly burdensome for the
town to require and administer, and specifically, the Council finds that the
purposes of the state act and of this article can be effectively executed at
the municipal level without the specific adoption and incorporation of the
statutory provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 6B-2-6 and 6B-2-7 respecting financial
disclosure, and W.Va. Code Art. 6B-3 relating to regulation and registration of
lobbyists, and which such statutory provisions the Council hereby expressly
opts not to include as provisions of this article, and affirmatively elects
that such provisions shall not apply to this municipality and its officers and
employees.
(Ord. 1989-05, passed 7-25-1989)
§ 111.02 AMENDMENTS TO STATE STATUTES.
   Any amendment to any of the aforesaid statutory provisions of the State of
West Virginia which are expressly herein adopted and incorporated as provisions
of this article, shall upon enactment by the state legislature, pursuant to the
state prescribed effective date thereof, be deemed to be an amendment to this
article unless the town expressly opts not to adopt any such amendment by
ordinance duly adopted by the Council evidencing the non-adoption of such
amendments.
(Ord. 1989-05, passed 7-25-1989)
CHAPTER THREE: LEGISLATIVE
ARTICLE 121: COUNCIL
Section
   
121.01   Time and place of regular meetings
   
121.02   Organization
   
121.03   Mayor and Recorder may vote
   
121.04   Records; minutes of proceedings; voting
   
121.05   Traffic Advisory Committee
Cross References
   Adoption of rules, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(45)
   Composition, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-7
   General powers, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-12
   Oath, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-8
   Open meeting law, see W.Va. Code Art. 6-9A
   Proceedings, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-9
   Term, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-9
   Vacancies, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-10
§ 121.01 TIME AND PLACE OF REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of Council shall be held on the second and fourth
Tuesdays of each month and such time and place may be designated by Council.
§ 121.02 ORGANIZATION.
   Council shall be presided over at its meetings by the Mayor, or, in his or
her absence, by the Recorder, or, in the absence of both the Mayor and the
Recorder, by one of its members selected by a majority of the members of
Council. A majority of the members of Council shall be necessary to constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business. No member of Council shall vote upon
any ordinance, order, measure, resolution or proposition, in which he or she
may be interested other than as a citizen of such municipality.
§ 121.03 MAYOR AND RECORDER MAY VOTE.
   The Mayor and Recorder shall have votes as members of Council, and, in case
of a tie, the presiding officer at the time shall cast the tie-breaking vote,
unless he or she has previously voted.
§ 121.04 RECORDS; MINUTES OF PROCEEDINGS; VOTING.
   (a)   Council shall cause to be kept, in a well-bound book, an accurate
record of all of its proceedings, ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts,
resolutions, rules and regulations which shall be fully indexed and open to
inspection by anyone who is required to pay taxes to the town.
   (b)   At each meeting of Council, a journal of the proceedings of the last
meeting shall be read, and corrected, if erroneous, and signed by the presiding
officer for the time being; provided, that the reading of the journal of the
proceedings of the last meeting may be dispensed with by majority vote of
Council if the members thereof have received and examined a copy of the journal
or a synopsis thereof prior to the meeting at which the journal is signed. Upon
the call of any member, the yeas and nays on any question shall be taken and
recorded in the journal.
   (c)   An audio copy, if available, of each Council meeting of the Town of
Nutter Fort shall be kept at Town Hall for a period of one year.
(Ord. passed 10-27-2009)
§ 121.05 TRAFFIC ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (a)   There is hereby created a Traffic Advisory Committee. The Traffic
Advisory Committee shall be composed of five to nine members to be appointed by
Council. Three members of the Traffic Advisory Committee shall be appointed for
a one-year term, three members of the Traffic Advisory Committee shall be
appointed for two years and three members of the Traffic Advisory Committee
shall be appointed for three years. Vacancies shall be filled in the same
manner as original appointments.
   (b)   The Traffic Advisory Committee shall, at the request of Council or
upon its own initiative, examine, study and survey the traffic conditions in
the town and make recommendations and suggestions for the improvement thereof.
Such reports and recommendations shall be advisory only and shall not be
construed to be a delegation of power. Such reports and recommendations shall
be made in writing to Council. The Traffic Advisory Committee shall have
authority to advise and work with any department of the town upon the general
traffic problems and parking problems which relate thereto as well as
conferring with any traffic consultant of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1993; Ord. passed 10-26-1993; Ord. passed 8-24-1999)
ARTICLE 123: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Section
   
123.01   Cases requiring enactment of ordinance
   
123.02   Ordinance procedures
Cross References
   Action required to be by ordinance, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-11-3, 8-5-12
   Delegating discretion, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-2
   Penalty limitations, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(57), 8-11-1
   Procedures, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-4
   To make powers effective, see W.Va. Code § 8-11-1
§ 123.01 CASES REQUIRING ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (a)   In the following enumerated cases, the action of Council shall, except
where otherwise provided in the West Virginia Code, be by ordinance:
      (1)   Levying taxes or providing for the collection of fees of any kind;
      (2)   Requiring a license to do business;
      (3)   Relating to offenses and penalties;
      (4)   Authorizing the issuance of bonds or other forms of indebtedness;
      (5)   Providing for public improvement;
      (6)   Providing for the purchase of private property by the town or for
the sale of property belonging to the town;
      (7)   Laying out or vacating a public street, avenue, road, alley or way;
      (8)   Relating to planning and zoning;
      (9)   Granting franchises to public utilities; and
      (10)   Providing for a contractual or other agreement with another
jurisdiction.
   (b)   The action of Council shall also be by ordinance in any other case in
which an ordinance is required by the provisions of the West Virginia Code.
§ 123.02 ORDINANCE PROCEDURES.
   (a)   It shall not be necessary, except where otherwise provided in the West
Virginia Code, for Council to publish in a newspaper any proposed ordinance
prior to the adoption thereof or any enacted ordinance subsequent to the
adoption thereof, and any and all ordinances of the town shall be adopted in
accordance with the following requirements, except where different or
additional requirements are specified in other provisions of the West Virginia
Code, in which event such other different or additional requirements shall be
applicable.
      (1)   A proposed ordinance shall be read by title at not less than two
meetings of Council with at least one week intervening between each meeting,
unless a member of Council demands that the ordinance be read in full at one or
both meetings. If such demand is made, the ordinance shall be read in full as
demanded.
      (2)   At least five days before the meeting at which a proposed
ordinance, the principal object of which is the raising of revenue for the
town, is to be finally adopted, Council shall cause notice of the proposed
adoption of such proposed ordinance to be published as a Class I-0 legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 59-3-1 et
seq., and the publication area for such publication shall be the town. The
notice shall state the subject matter and general title or titles of such
proposed ordinance, the date, time and place of the proposed final vote on
adoption, and the place or places within the town where such proposed ordinance
may be inspected by the public. A reasonable number of copies of the proposed
ordinance shall be kept at such place or places and be made available for
public inspection. Such notice shall also advise that interested parties may
appear at the meeting and be heard with respect to the proposed ordinance.
      (3)   A proposed ordinance shall not be materially amended at the same
meeting at which finally adopted.
   (b)   Council may adopt, by ordinance, building codes, housing codes,
plumbing codes, sanitary codes, electrical codes, fire prevention codes or any
other technical codes dealing with general public health, safety or welfare, or
a combination of the same, or a comprehensive code of ordinances, in the manner
prescribed in this subsection (b). Before any such ordinance shall be adopted,
the code shall be either printed or typewritten and shall be presented in
pamphlet form to Council at a regular meeting, and copies of such code shall be
made available for public inspection. The ordinance adopting such code shall
not set out the code in full, but shall merely identify the same. The vote on
adoption of such ordinance shall be the same as on any other ordinance. After
adoption of the ordinance, such code or codes shall be certified by the Mayor
and shall be filed as a permanent record in the office of the Recorder, who
shall not be required to transcribe and record the same in the ordinance book
as other ordinances are transcribed and recorded. Consistent with the
provisions of subsection (a) above, it shall not be necessary that any such
ordinance, either as proposed or after adoption, be published in any newspaper,
and it shall not be necessary that the code itself be so published, but before
final adoption of any such proposed ordinance notice of the proposed adoption
of such ordinance and code shall be given by publication as herein provided for
ordinances the principal object of which is the raising of revenue for the
town, which notice shall also state where, within the town, the code or codes
will be available for public inspection.
   (c)   Council may enact an ordinance without complying with the rules
prescribed in this section only:
      (1)   In the case of a pressing public emergency making procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this section dangerous to the public health,
safety or morals, and by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members elected
to Council; or
      (2)   When otherwise provided in the West Virginia Code. The nature of
any such emergency shall be set out in full in the ordinance.
CHAPTER FIVE: ADMINISTRATIVE
ARTICLE 131: MAYOR
Section
   
131.01   Powers and duties
Cross References
   Acting mayor, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-3
   Oath, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-8
   Position established, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-7
   Powers and duties generally, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-1
   Term, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-9
   Vacancy, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-10
   Voting rights, see W.Va. Code § 8-9-2
§ 131.01 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, shall have the
powers and authority granted in this section, and shall see that the
ordinances, orders, bylaws, acts, resolutions, rules and regulations of Council
are faithfully executed. He or she shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine any and all alleged violations thereof and to convict and sentence
persons therefor. Upon complaint, he or she shall have authority to issue a
search warrant in connection with the violation of a town ordinance or
provision of the codified ordinances. Any search warrant, warrant of arrest or
other process issued by him or her may be directed to the Chief of Police or
any member of the Police Department; and the same may be executed at any place
within the county. He or she shall have control of the police of the town and
may appoint special police officers whenever he or she deems it necessary,
except when otherwise provided by law, and subject to W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-1 et
seq.; and it shall be his or her duty especially to see that the peace and good
order of the town are preserved, and that persons and property therein are
protected; and, to this end, he or she may cause the arrest and detention of
all riotous and disorderly individuals in the town before issuing his or her
warrant therefor. He or she shall have power to issue executions for all fines,
penalties and costs imposed by him or her, or he or she may require the
immediate payment thereof, and, in default of such payment, he or she may
commit the party in default to jail, until the fine or penalty and costs shall
be paid, but the term of imprisonment in such case shall not exceed 30 days. He
or she shall, from time to time, recommend to Council such measures as he or
she may deem needful for the welfare of the town. The Mayor shall not receive
any money belonging to the state or to individuals, unless he or she shall give
the bond and security required of a magistrate and all of the provisions of
W.Va. Code Art. 50-1 relating to moneys received by magistrates shall apply to
like moneys received by the Mayor.
ARTICLE 133: RECORDER
Section
   
133.01   Powers and duties generally
Cross References
   Oath, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-8
   Position established, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-7
   Powers and duties generally, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-3
   Term, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-9
   Vacancy, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-10
   Voting rights, see W.Va. Code § 8-9-2
§ 133.01 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Town Recorder shall keep the journal of the proceedings of Council, and
he or she shall have charge of and preserve the records of the town. Unless
otherwise provided by state law, whenever the Mayor is unable because of
illness or absence from the town to perform the duties of his or her office,
and during any vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Recorder shall perform the
duties of the Mayor and be invested with all of his or her power and authority.
ARTICLE 135: TOWN ATTORNEY
Section
Editor’s Note:
   There are no sections in this Art. 135. This article has been established to
provide a place for references and future legislation.
Cross References
   Hiring special counsel, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-1a
   Notice of suit against municipality, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-2
ARTICLE 137: TREASURER
Section
   
137.01   Appointment and qualifications
   
137.02   Powers and duties
   
137.03   Salary
   
137.04   Bonds of municipal officers
Cross References
   Accounting principles; funds, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-17 et seq.
   Collection of moneys, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-15 et seq.
   Financial statements, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-23
   Purchasing; competitive bidding, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-10
   Supervision of public offices, see W.Va. Code Art. 6-9
§ 137.01 APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   There shall be an office of the Town Treasurer, who shall be appointed by
the Mayor and may be made subject to the approval of Council, and who shall be
a high school graduate with general knowledge of bookkeeping and accounting,
and who shall not be an elected official of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1984)
§ 137.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of all moneys and
have control over all expenditures to ensure that budget appropriations are not
exceeded, all subject to the supervision of the Mayor;
   (b)   Maintain a general accounting system for the town and each of its
offices, departments and agencies; keep books for and exercise financial
budgetary control over each office, department and agency; keep separate
accounts for the items of appropriation contained in the town budget, each of
which account shall show the amount of the appropriation, the amounts paid
therefrom, the unpaid obligations against it and the unencumbered balance;
require reports of receipts and disbursements from each office, department and
agency of the town to be made daily or at such intervals as he or she may deem
expedient;
   (c)   Submit to the Mayor and Council a monthly statement of all receipts,
disbursements and unpaid accounts in sufficient detail to show the exact
financial condition of the town;
   (d)   Prepare for the Mayor as of the end of each fiscal year, a complete
financial statement and report;
   (e)   Supervise and be responsible for all special assessments for the town
and give such notice of special assessments as may be required by law;
   (f)   Collect all taxes, special assessments, license fees and other
revenues of the town for whose collection the town is responsible and receive
all money receivable by the town from the county, state or federal government,
or from any court or from any office, department or agency of the town;
   (g)   Have custody of all public funds belonging to or under the control of
the town or any office, department or agency of the town;
   (h)   Deposit all funds coming into his or her hands in such depositories as
may be designated by resolution of Council, or, if no such resolution be
adopted in such depository as may be designated by the Mayor and all such
deposits shall be subject to the requirements of general law as to surety and
the payment of interest on deposits, but all such interest shall be the
property of the town and shall be accounted for and credited to the proper
account;
   (i)   Except as otherwise provided by general law have custody of all
investments and invested funds of the town, or in the possession of the town in
a fiduciary capacity and of all bonds and notes of the town and receive and
deliver town bonds and notes for transfer, registration or exchange;
   (j)   Approve all proposed expenditures after determining that there is an
unencumbered balance of appropriated and available funds; and
   (k)   Be at all times subject to the general supervision of the Mayor, who
shall have full supervisory powers including the right to impose disciplinary
sanctions and the right to dismiss with just cause, only.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1984; Ord. passed 11-23-1999)
§ 137.03 SALARY.
   The Town Treasurer shall be paid by the town at a salary determined by the
Mayor and Council.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1984)
§ 137.04 BONDS OF MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   The Town Treasurer/Tax Collector will be covered by a faithful performance
bond in the amount of $25,000, as per state law. This coverage will be included
as part of the yearly property/liability insurance coverage purchased by the
town.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2007)
ARTICLE 139: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Editor’s Note:
   There are no sections in this Art. 139. This article has been established to
provide a place for cross references and future legislation.
Cross References
   Appointment of special police, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-1
   Civil service, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-6 et seq.
   Hours of duty; holidays, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-2, 8-14-2a
   Parking lot or building officers, see W.Va. Code § 8-14-5a
   Pension and relief fund, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
   Police bonds, see W.Va. Code § 61-7-5
   Powers and duties, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-14-1, 8-14-3
   School zone officers, see W.Va. Code § 8-14-5
ARTICLE 141: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
141.01   Committee on Fire Department
   
141.02   Appointment and qualifications for Fire Chief
   
141.03   Powers and duties
   
141.04   Salary
   
141.05   Delivery of service; fees
Cross References
   Authority of local fire departments, see W.Va. Code Art. 29-3A
   Civil service, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-11 et seq.
   Fire protection contracts, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-3, 8-12-5(56)
   Paid fire departments, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-9 et seq.
   Pension and relief fund, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
   Power of governing body, see W.Va. Code § 8-15-1
   Volunteer fire companies, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-15-4 et seq.
§ 141.01 COMMITTEE ON FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   The Committee on the Fire Department shall be composed of three
members of Council who shall be appointed by the Mayor at the first regular
meeting in July of each year, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
   (b)   (1)   The Fire Department Committee shall, under the direction of
Council, purchase all needful and proper apparatus for preventing or
extinguishing fire, and shall provide for the safekeeping of the same at
convenient and central places; shall cause all necessary repairs to be made on
such apparatus, and cause the same to be kept in good and serviceable
condition.
      (2)   Such Committee shall also from time to time report to Council such
suggestions and measures as may be deemed advisable or necessary for the
maintenance of a proper Fire Department.
§ 141.02 APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS FOR FIRE CHIEF.
   (a)   To adequately manage the Fire Department, but not limited to,
answering fire and EMS calls; maintaining and servicing fire equipment; handle
all necessary paperwork, records and maintaining cleanliness of grounds and
equipment and any other duties as directed; and
   (b)   Required qualifications:
      (1)   Firefighter I and II of the State of West Virginia Fire Service
Extension fire training program required;
      (2)   Emergency vehicle driving school required;
      (3)   Auto extrication school required;
      (4)   First aid required;
      (5)   CPR class required;
      (6)   Fire Officer I and II required; and
      (7)   Emergency medical technician required.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2012)
§ 141.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   Fires.
      (1)   Attends all fire calls as is possible;
      (2)   Primary responsibility is the town limits of Nutter Fort; and
      (3)   Oversees and give directions to firefighters and mutual aid
departments in case of fire or emergency.
   (b)   Equipment.
      (1)   Maintains vehicle maintenance;
      (2)   Maintains proper maintenance records of same;
      (3)   Runs hose test once a year;
      (4)   Maintains air packs, nozzles, pumps, power plants and all other
equipment; and
      (5)   Provides weekly vehicle check lists.
   (c)   Maintenance. Provides and maintains maintenance on the following
equipment:
      (1)   Hose washer and dryer;
      (2)   Cascade system;
      (3)   Alarm system;
      (4)   Radio equipment;
      (5)   Foam systems;
      (6)   First aid and EMS equipment; and
      (7)   All other fire and rescue related equipment.
   (d)   Building.
      (1)   Maintains and cleans building and truck bays; and
      (2)   Upkeep on general building maintenance.
   (e)   Grounds.
      (1)   Mows grass and keeps surrounding area clean and neat at all times;
and
      (2)   Maintain a clean environment at all times and provides snow removal
around town building when feasible.
   (f)   Training.
      (1)   Coordinates training programs for firefighters;
      (2)   Plans and implements fire drills and proper fire training; and
      (3)   Maintains accurate records of all training provided.
   (g)   Recordkeeping. Maintains accurate recordkeeping on:
      (1)   Cascade system;
      (2)   SCBAs;
      (3)   Air cylinders;
      (4)   Trucks;
      (5)   Annual pump test;
      (6)   Hose test;
      (7)   Fire hydrants; and
      (8)   Ladder truck.
   (h)   State Fire Marshal’s office reports.
      (1)   Fires report on each alarm; and
      (2)   Files quarterly summary to Fire Marshal’s office.
   (i)   State Farm Incident Reports NFIRS. Files report on each alarm;
   (j)   Building inspections.
      (1)   Provides periodic inspections:
         (a)   Schools; and
         (b)   Commercial property.
      (2)   Smoke detector ordinance.
   (k)   Fire prevention.
      (1)   Coordinates program for schools;
      (2)   Coordinates programs for churches, clubs and the like; and
      (3)   Coordinates tours of Fire Department for schools including
kindergarten.
   (l)   Laws pertaining to the Fire Department.
      (1)   Keeps abreast of all laws pertaining to the Fire Department;
      (2)   Attends conventions;
      (3)   Attends seminars;
      (4)   Attends State Fire Marshal’s meetings; and
      (5)   Attends County Fire Marshal’s meetings.
   (m)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Coordinate with Water Department on yearly testing of hydrants;
      (2)   Maintain grass and weeds around fire hydrants;
      (3)   Maintain painting as necessary; and
      (4)   Maintain maintenance as necessary.
   (n)   Burning permits.
      (1)   Issues permits; and
      (2)   Inspects burning sites for safe conditions.
   (n)   Town Council meetings. Attends all Council meetings to keep abreast of
information for Fire Department and any related activities or problems that may
arise between the town and Fire Department.
   (o)   Town use of fire equipment.
      (1)   Provide/assign driver as needed; and
      (2)   Provide aid as needed.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2012)
§ 141.04 SALARY.
   The Town Fire Chief shall be paid by the town at a salary determined by the
Mayor and Council.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2012)
§ 141.05 DELIVERY OF SERVICE; FEES.
   (a)   The Town of Nutter Fort’s Fire Department shall initiate user fees for
the delivery of Fire Department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to
the scene of motor vehicle accidents and structure fires. The rate of the user
fees shall be that which is the usual customary and reasonable costs (UCR),
which includes any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may
fluctuate based on the needs of the accident or fire and or both.
   (b)   The user fees shall be filed to the motor vehicle insurance,
commercial or homeowner’s insurance, representing an add-on-cost of the claim
for damages of the vehicles, property and/or injuries. The claim costs shall be
filed to the insurance coverage of the owner of a vehicle, owner of property or
responsible party.
   (c)   The Mayor, Treasurer and/or Fire Department President may makes rules
or regulations, and from time-to-time may amend, revoke or add rules and
regulations, not consistent with this section as they may deem necessary or
expedient in respect to billing for these fees and the collection thereof.
   (d)   All amounts collected as a result of this section shall be placed into
a fund established by the Treasurer to be used exclusively for personnel,
supplies and equipment for the Fire Department.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013)
ARTICLE 143: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
Editor’s Note:
   There are no sections in this Art. 143. This article has been established to
provide a place for cross references and future legislation.
Cross References
   Adoption of comprehensive plan, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-3-8 et seq.
   Approval of subdivision plats, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-5-1 et seq.
   Authority to establish, see W.Va. Code § 8A-2-1
   General provisions, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-2-1 et seq.
   Zoning recommendations, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-7-1 et seq.
ARTICLE 144: BUILDING COMMISSION
Section
   
144.01   Created
   
144.02   Members
   
144.03   Powers
   
144.04   Indebtedness
   
144.05   Surplus funds
   
144.06   Contributions; deposit of funds; reports; audit
   
144.07   Sale of facilities
   
144.08   Workers’ compensation
Cross References
   Building commissions, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-33
§ 144.01 CREATED.
   (a)   There is hereby created a Municipal Building Commission for the town,
which Commission shall be known as “Nutter Fort Municipal Building Commission”.
   (b)   The Commission shall be a public corporation of the state and shall
have perpetual existence.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.02 MEMBERS.
   The Building Commission shall be composed of three members, not more than
two of whom shall be from the same political party, and none of whom shall hold
any office or employment under the United States of America, the state or any
county or political subdivision thereof, or of any political party. All members
shall be residents of the town. No member shall receive any compensation for
his or her services as such, but each member shall be reimbursed by the
Commission for any reasonable and necessary expenses actually incurred by him
or her in the discharge of his or her duties as such member. Members first
appointed shall serve, one for an initial term of one year, one for an initial
term of three years and one for an initial term of five years. On the
expiration of each initial term, the successor shall be appointed for a term of
five years. Vacancies occurring before the expiration of a term shall be filled
by appointment by Council for the unexpired term only. Members shall be
appointed to the Commission by resolution of Council.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.03 POWERS.
   The Building Commission is empowered to sue and be sued, contract and be
contracted with, adopt, use and alter a common seal, make and adopt all
necessary, appropriate and lawful bylaws, rules and regulations pertaining to
its affairs, elect such officers, appoint such committees and agents and employ
and fix the compensation of such employees and contractors as may be necessary
for the conduct of the affairs and operations of the Commission, acquire,
purchase, own and hold any property, real, personal or mixed, and acquire,
equip, construct, maintain and operate public buildings, structures, projects
and appurtenant facilities of any type or types for which the town is permitted
by law to expend public funds (all hereinafter referred to as “facilities”),
apply for, receive and use grants-in-aid, donations and contributions from any
source or sources, including, but not limited to, the United States of America
or any agency thereof, and accept and use bequests, devises, gifts and
donations from any source whatsoever, sell, encumber or dispose of any
property, real, personal or mixed, issue negotiable bonds, notes, debentures or
other evidences of indebtedness and provide for the rights of the holders
thereof, incur any proper indebtedness and issue any obligations and give any
security therefor which it may deem necessary or advisable in connection with
exercising powers as provided herein, raise funds by the issuance and sale of
revenue bonds in the manner provided by the applicable provisions of W.Va. Code
§ 8-16-1, and the Commission is hereby declared to be a “governing body” within
the definition of that term as used in such sections, exercise the power of
eminent domain in the manner provided in W.Va. Code Ch. 54 as for business
corporations, for the purposes set forth in this article, which purposes are
hereby declared public purposes for which private property may be taken, lease
its property or any part thereof, for public purposes, to such persons and upon
such terms as the Commission deems proper, and do all things reasonable and
necessary to carry out the foregoing powers.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.04 INDEBTEDNESS.
   No statutory limitation with respect to the nature or amount of indebtedness
which may be incurred by municipalities or other public bodies shall apply to
the indebtedness of the Building Commission. No indebtedness of any nature of
the Commission shall constitute an indebtedness of the town or a charge against
any property of the town. No obligation incurred by the Commission shall give
any right against any member of Council or any member of the Commission. The
rights of creditors of the Commission shall be solely against the Commission as
a corporate body and shall be satisfied only out of property held by it in its
corporate capacity.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.05 SURPLUS FUNDS.
   If the Building Commission should realize a surplus of funds over and above
the amount required for the maintenance, improvement and operation of its
facilities and for meeting all required payments on its obligations and
reserves in connection therewith, it shall establish and set aside for future
operations, improvements and contingencies a reserve in such amount as the
Commission shall deem proper and it shall then apply the residue of such
surplus, if any, to the payment of any recognized and established obligations
not then due. After all such recognized and established obligations have been
paid and discharged in full, the Commission shall, at the end of each fiscal
year, being the year commencing July 1, and ending on the following June 30,
set aside such reserve for future operations, improvements and contingencies as
aforesaid and pay the residue of such surplus, if any, into the General Fund of
the town.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.06 CONTRIBUTIONS; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS; REPORTS; AUDIT.
   Council may from time to time make contributions to the Building Commission
and contributions may also be received by the Commission from any person
desiring to make contributions. The Commission shall also collect such rentals
and other charges for the use of its facilities as it may be obligated to do.
All funds received by the Commission from any source shall be deposited in such
bank or banks as the Commission may determine and shall be withdrawn upon such
terms and conditions as the Commission may direct. The Commission shall keep
strict account of all its receipts and expenditures and shall report quarterly
to the town and to any person which has made a contribution to it within the
preceding fiscal year. Such report shall be in writing, shall have been made
within 60 days after the end of each quarter, and shall contain an itemized
account of such receipts and expenditures during the preceding quarter. Within
60 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Commission shall make an annual
report in writing containing an itemized statement of its receipts and
expenditures for the preceding year and shall publish the same as a Class II-
0 legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 59-
3, the publication area for such publication to be the county. The books,
records and accounts of the Commission shall be subject to audit and
examination by the State Tax Department and by any other proper public official
or body in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.07 SALE OF FACILITIES.
   If all indebtedness of the Building Commission has been paid in full, upon
direction in writing to the Commission by Council, the Commission shall sell
any or all properties constituting part or all its facilities and deposit the
net proceeds thereof, if any, in the General Fund of the town or shall transfer
any such properties to the town.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
§ 144.08 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   The Building Commission shall subscribe to the Workers’ Compensation Fund of
the state and shall pay all necessary premiums required therefor, to the end
that all eligible employees of the Commission shall be covered by workers’
compensation.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1968)
ARTICLE 145: SANITARY BOARD
Section
   
145.01   Established
   
145.02   Appointment
   
145.03   Composition
   
145.04   Terms of office; vacancies
   
145.05   Powers and duties
   
145.06   Officers
Cross References
   Composition of board, see W.Va. Code § 16-13-18
   Publication of financial statement, see W.Va. Code § 16-13-18a
§ 145.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a Sanitary Board for the town.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1960)
§ 145.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The Sanitary Board of the town shall be appointed by Council, and the
members of the Board, upon their appointment, shall qualify by taking the oath
of office required of other public officials of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1960)
§ 145.03 COMPOSITION.
   The Sanitary Board, as herein created, shall be composed of the Mayor and up
to four persons appointed by Council, one of which must be a registered
professional engineer, unless a registered engineer is used during a project.
The engineer member of the Board need not be a resident of the Town of Nutter
Fort. After the project has been completed, the engineer may be succeeded by a
person that is not an engineer. A part-time employee of the Town of Nutter Fort
shall be eligible for appointment to the Sanitary Board, unless the part-time
employee is employed by the Town of Nutter Fort’s Public Works Department,
which would create a direct conflict of interest and prohibit any such
appointment to the Sanitary Board.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1960; Ord. passed 3-12-2019; Ord. 2023-06, passed 11-14-2023)
§ 145.04 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The appointment of the original two members of the Sanitary Board shall be
for the term of two and three years, respectively, and upon the expiration of
each term, and each succeeding term thereafter, the appointment of a successor
shall be made in the like manner for a term of three years. Vacancies shall be
filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment.
The Mayor’s term shall coincide with his or her tenure of office.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1960)
§ 145.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Sanitary Board shall have the control over and supervision of
construction, acquisition, improvement, equipment, custody, operation and
maintenance of any sewage collection system and sewage treatment plant or
plants, intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, force mains, pump stations and
ejector stations as hereafter may be constructed within and for the benefit of
the residents of the town as well as the collection, treatment, purification
and disposal, in a sanitary manner of liquid and solid waste, night soil and
industrial waste of the town; and in addition thereto, the Board shall be
vested with and shall exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties
conferred upon it by W.Va. Code § 16-13-11, and all acts amendatory and
supplementary thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1960)
§ 145.06 OFFICERS.
   The Mayor shall act as Chairperson of the Sanitary Board, which shall select
from its members a Vice-Chairperson and shall designate a Secretary and
Treasurer (but the Secretary and Treasurer may be one and the same), who need
not be a member or members of the Board. The Vice-Chairperson, Secretary and
Treasurer shall hold office at the will of the Board. The appointive members of
the Board shall each receive as compensation as set by Council for each meeting
of the Board; provided that, the members of the Board shall not be paid for
meetings in excess of six meetings per month.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1960)
ARTICLE 147: BEAUTIFICATION COMMISSION
Section
   
147.01   Administration
   
147.02   Rules of order
   
147.03   Duties
§ 147.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   There is hereby created, the Beautification Commission of the Town of
Nutter Fort, which may be referred to as the “Beautification Commission”.
   (b)   The Commission shall consist of at least four, but no more than eight
members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by Council.
   (c)   All members shall serve until their successors are duly appointed by
the Mayor, and approved by Council.
   (d)   Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term of office shall
be filled for the unexpired term only.
   (e)   Members shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1992; Ord. 2021-07, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 147.02 RULES OF ORDER.
   (a)   This organization shall be known as the “Nutter Fort Beautification
Commission”.
   (b)   The Commission shall meet monthly on the second Thursday at 6:30 p.m.
at the Nutter Fort Town Hall.
   (c)   (1)   The Beautification Commission shall elect for a two-year term
such Chairperson, Secretary and other officers as it determines to be necessary
for the performances of its duties.
      (2)   The Commission shall adopt such rules and hold such meetings as
shall be necessary or convenient for the transaction of its business.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1992; Ord. passed 12- -2013; Ord. passed 3-10-2015)
§ 147.03 DUTIES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the Beautification Commission to advise and
recommend to the Mayor, or Council, such programs or projects, as would in the
opinion of the Commission, improve the beauty and general welfare of the town.
   (b)   The Mayor or Council may request the advice or cooperation of the
Commission for any project or program connected with the beautification,
cleanliness or general welfare of the town.
   (c)   The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Mayor generally
outlining its program and progress, during the previous year.
   (d)   After consulting with the Mayor and Council, the Beautification
Commission will contact present business places, and ask their cooperation in
planting some form of greenery or shrubbery as a means of improving the overall
appearance of the town.
   (e)   Any new business shall beautify their grounds with some form of
greenery or shrubbery, whenever practical, being careful not to obstruct
visibility of the flow of traffic.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1992)
ARTICLE 149: TOWN ENGINEER
Section
Editor’s Note:
   There are no sections in this Art. 149. This article has been established to
provide a place for cross references and future legislation.
Cross References
   Certification of costs, see W.Va. Code § 8-17-10
   Low cost improvements: memorandum of engineer, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-17-4 et
seq.
   Registration of Engineers, see W.Va. Code Art. 30-13
   Report, see W.Va. Code § 8-17-11
   Sewer and street assessments: report on completion, see W.Va. Code § 8-18-5
ARTICLE 151: PARKS, RECREATION AND WELLNESS COMMISSION
Section
   
151.01   Intent
   
151.02   Commission established; members
   
151.03   Composition
   
151.04   Appointment; terms
§ 151.01 INTENT.
   The governing body of the Town of Nutter Fort hereby finds and declares that
the needs, interests and welfare of the citizens of Nutter Fort require the
establishment of a Nutter Fort Parks, Recreation and Wellness Commission to
establish, supervise and direct the general recreational activities, and to
control the use of the town’s physical facilities, used for the recreation and
enjoyment of and by the citizens of Nutter Fort and others who may avail
themselves of these facilities.
(Ord. 1995, passed 2-28-1995; Ord. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 151.02 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS.
   (a)   The Town of Nutter Fort does hereby establish the Nutter Fort Parks,
Recreation and Wellness Commission, which will be referred to herein after as
the “Commission”.
   (b)   The Commission shall direct and control the use of all town facilities
used and available for recreational purposes. The Commission shall meet at the
direction of the Chairperson or at the request of a majority of the Commission
members. They shall meet at such place and time as the Chairperson directs. Any
member who misses three consecutive meetings, without good cause, will be
replaced.
   (c)   The Commission shall require persons, individuals or groups desiring
to hold special activities in or on such town facilities to submit a written
application at least 30 days in advance of the date of use, where practical.
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES means use of the facilities that is aside from the normal,
every day use that has been established. Such application shall include the
name of the person or group, the nature of the activity planned, the number of
persons involved and the amount of any charge, admission or donation, if any;
also, the name of the person who will be in charge of the activity.
(Ord. 1995, passed 2-28-1995; Ord. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 151.03 COMPOSITION.
   The Commission shall be composed of five members, all of whom must reside in
the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 1995, passed 2-28-1995; Ord. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 151.04 APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (a)   All Commission members shall be appointed for specific terms of
service by the governing body of Nutter Fort. Any member of the governing body
may nominate persons for service on the Commission; and the appointments of
such persons shall be approved by a majority of those voting. Nominations and
appointments shall be made at the regular meetings of the governing body. A
Chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by and from the members of the
Commission by a majority vote on a year-to-year basis.
   (b)   Members will be appointed for not more than a three-year term. Two
members will be appointed for three years, two members will be appointed for
two years and one member will be appointed for one year. The member that is
appointed for the one-year term, if reappointed will serve a three-year term.
(Ord. 1995, passed 2-28-1995; Ord. passed 7-11-1995)
ARTICLE 153: URBAN RENEWAL AUTHORITY
Section
   
153.01   Urban Renewal Authority established
   
153.02   Appointment of members
   
153.03   Compensation of Commission; holdover; certificates of appointment
   
153.04   Procedural rules; quorum; bylaws, meeting of the authority;
qualification
   
153.05   Officers of the authority; employees
   
153.06   Powers conferred
§ 153.01 URBAN RENEWAL AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established in and for the Town of Nutter Fort, West
Virginia, an Urban Renewal Authority as provided by and authorized in W.Va.
Code Art. 16-18, as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1995)
§ 153.02 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Urban Renewal Authority shall consist of five Commissioners who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town Council of the
Town of Nutter Fort. The Commissioners who are first appointed pursuant hereto
shall be designated to serve for terms of one, two, three, four and five years
respectively, from their date of appointment, but thereafter said Commissioners
shall be appointed for a term of office of five years; except that, all
vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1995)
§ 153.03 COMPENSATION OF COMMISSION; HOLDOVER; CERTIFICATES OF APPOINTMENT.
   A Commissioner of such authority shall receive no compensation for his or
her services, but shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel
expenses, incurred in the discharge of his or her duties. Each Commissioner
shall hold office until his or her successor has been appointed and qualified.
A certificate of appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be
filed with the Town Clerk and shall be conclusive evidence of the due and
proper appointment of such Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1995)
§ 153.04 PROCEDURAL RULES; QUORUM; BYLAWS, MEETING OF THE AUTHORITY;
QUALIFICATION.
   A majority of the Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting business and exercising the power of the Authority and for all other
purposes. Action may be taken by the Board upon a vote of a majority of the
Commissioners present, unless in any case the bylaws of the Authority shall
require a larger number. Bylaws shall be adopted by the Authority. Meetings of
the Authority may be held anywhere within the Town of Nutter Fort as the
Authority shall from time to time designate. Any person may be appointed a
Commissioner of the Authority if he or she resides within the Town of Nutter
Fort and are otherwise eligible under general law.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1995)
§ 153.05 OFFICERS OF THE AUTHORITY; EMPLOYEES.
   The Commissioners of said Authority herein created shall elect a Chairperson
and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners. The Authority may employ
such persons as are authorized by W.Va. Code § 16-18-4, as amended.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1995)
§ 153.06 POWERS CONFERRED.
   The Urban Renewal Authority herein created shall have and exercise all of
the powers and authority granted to it by W.Va. Code Art. 16-18, as amended, or
as may be hereinafter conferred upon it by state or federal law. It is
provided, however, that said Authority is subject to all the requirements,
restrictions and limitations of said W.Va. Art. 16-18, or as the same may be
hereinafter imposed.
(Ord. passed 7-25-1995)
ARTICLE 155: SMOKING POLICY
Section
   
155.01   Smoking prohibited
   
155.02   Regulation of smoking in enclosed places of employment
   
155.03   Violations and penalties
§ 155.01 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe in the
Town Council Chambers, Town Hall, the Maintenance Building or any building
owned or operated by the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. passed 11-11-2003)
§ 155.02 REGULATION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide smoke-free
areas for non-smoking employees within existing facilities to the maximum
extent possible, but employers are not required to incur any expense to make
structural or other physical modifications in providing these areas.
   (b)   Non-smoking areas shall be designed such that any employee would not
be required to pass through smoking areas on a routine basis in order to
perform job duties or to reach a non-smoking area.
   (c)   Each employer shall adopt, implement, make known and maintain a
smoking policy which recognizes that where the need to breathe smoke-free air
conflicts with the desire to smoke, the need to breathe smoke-free air shall
have priority. Also, there will be no smoking within 50 feet of a building
opening, doorway, entrance, hallway or exit. The policy shall include a minimum
of the following requirements.
      (1)   Any employee in a place of his or her employment shall have the
right to designate his or her work area as a non-smoking area and to post the
same with appropriate signs.
      (2)   In any dispute arising under the smoking policy, the health
concerns of the non-smoker shall be given precedence.
   (d)   The smoking policy shall be shared with any existing or prospective
employee who request it.
   (e)   Every employer shall have the right to designate any place of
employment or any portion thereof as a non-smoking area.
(Ord. passed 11-11-2003)
§ 155.03 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area where smoking
is prohibited by the provisions of this regulation.
   (b)   Any person who violates any provision of the regulations shall be
guilty of an infraction.
   (c)   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be fined not
less than $10, nor more than $50.
(Ord. passed 11-11-2003)
ARTICLE 157: EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
Section
   
157.01   At-will employment
   
157.02   Equal opportunity employer
   
157.03   Recruitment, hiring and employment
   
157.04   Public employee conduct
   
157.05   Probationary period
   
157.06   Position types
   
157.07   Payment of salaries and wages
   
157.08   Payroll deductions
   
157.09   Substance abuse
   
157.10   Sexual harassment
   
157.11   ADA grievances
   
157.12   Grievance procedures
   
157.13   Disciplinary action policy
   
157.14   Jury duty
   
157.15   Seatbelts
   
157.16   Conferences, schools, workshops and seminars
   
157.17   Smoking
   
157.18   Inclement weather or unique situations
   
157.19   Health insurance
   
157.20   Payment in lieu of health insurance
   
157.21   Life insurance
   
157.22   Pension
   
157.23   Holidays
   
157.24   Vacation
   
157.25   Overtime compensation
   
157.26   Longevity pay
   
157.27   Leaves
   
157.28   Workers’ compensation
   
157.29   Vehicle accident
Cross References
   Bonds, see W.Va. Code §§ 6-2-11; 8-12-5(46), (47)
   Compensation of officers and employees, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-12
   Conflict of interest, see W.Va. Code § 8-5-19
   Employee benefit fund, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(55)
   Insurance and indemnification, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-7 et seq.
   Reimbursement of employment applicant, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(53)
   Retirement benefits, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-22
§ 157.01 AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   The Town of Nutter Fort is an “at-will employment” employer. Employees may
be terminated at any time for any reason or no reason at all at the discretion
of the Mayor and on the approval of Town Council. Employees are considered
employees at will.
§ 157.02 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
   The Town of Nutter Fort is an equal opportunity employer. The Town of Nutter
Fort does not discriminate in employment hiring, policies or practices on the
basis of creed, color, race, religion, ancestry, marital status, national
origin, age, sex, sexual preference, disability, or political affiliation.
§ 157.03 RECRUITMENT, HIRING AND EMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   Applications. Employment applications will be accepted at Town Hall.
Applications received at times other than when direct solicitations are made
for a particular position, will be kept on file in the office of city clerk for
a period of six months to be accessed by any town department seeking an
employee. Placement of a completed application in the Clerk’s file will not
constitute application for any specifically advertised position and will not
require further action by any elected official or town administrative person.
   (b)   Notice of vacancies. All vacancies in the Town of Nutter Fort will be
announced by advertisement in local newspaper.
   (c)   Ethics and employment. 
      (1)   No person will be employed by the Town of Nutter Fort when that
employment would result in a violation of the ethics in government provisions.
Any such appointment may be voided by the Town Council if not done voluntarily
by the hiring department.
      (2)   No hiring authority may appoint or vote for the appointment of his
or her father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, sister, brother, uncle,
aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-
law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law to any position within the
same department.
      (3)   No person will be hired to any position within a department when
that individual’s spouse is already serving in any position within the same
department, as an employee of the town.
      (4)   No person will be hired if such hiring would result in a direct
supervision conflict due to a relationship between the prospective employee and
a supervisor which falls within any relationships described.
   (d)   Employment testing.
      (1)   Tests for job applicants will be limited to skills or performance
testing, to determine the level of competence or ability to perform certain
tasks associated with the job being sought.
      (2)   An applicant will be disqualified from consideration for employment
in a position if he or she does not meet the job qualifications for that
position.
      (3)   For employees required to drive or operate equipment, which
requires a driver’s license, driving records and license validity will be
checked.
   (e)   Verification of work eligibility. 
      (1)   The employing department is responsible for verifying the
applicant’s employment experience, education, and skills before extending a job
offer to the applicant.
      (2)   By federal law, each new employee must, within the first three days
of employment, complete and sign an INS form I-9, and show proof of identity
and eligibility. The new applicant must have also completed a W-4 form,
insurance forms, insurance information about dependents, the employee
acknowledgment from employee handbook and any other necessary employee benefit
forms.
If the applicant knowingly makes a false statement on the application form;
cannot legally hold the position; offers money, service, or anything of value
to win favor during the application process, he or she may be disqualified.
Finally, if the prospective employees do not meet the physical requirements
when tested, or has not provided proof of citizenship or legal work status
within the first three days of employment, they may be disqualified.
      (3)   If the applicant knowingly makes a false statement on the
application form; cannot legally hold the position; offers money, service, or
anything of value to win favor during the application process, he or she may be
disqualified. Finally, if the prospective employees do not meet the physical
requirements when tested, or has not provided proof of citizenship or legal
work status within the first three days of employment, they may be
disqualified.
   (f)   Orientation. 
      (1)   The Town Administrator’s office provides general orientation about
the Town of Nutter Fort and the benefits of employment. Each employee will
receive a copy of the employee handbook and any applicable workplace rules. It
is the responsibility of the employee to read and gain an understanding of the
handbook and work rules. The employee will acknowledge receipt of the handbook;
periodic updates will also be acknowledged.
      (2)   In most cases, actual job duty orientation and training will be
given within the specific department he or she will work.
   (g)   Physical qualifications. Certain jobs require physical skills. An
employee may be required to have a physical examination during the course of
employment if the Town Council has determined that one is needed. If an
employee becomes unable to perform his or her normal duties due to a non-work-
related injury, he or she will be placed on sick leave until his or her return
to active duty. If no sick leave has been accumulated by the employee, he or
she shall receive no pay until returning to active duty.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010; Ord. 2023-03, passed 4-25-2023)
§ 157.04 PUBLIC EMPLOYEE CONDUCT.
   Employees of the Town of Nutter Fort are public employees and have a duty to
conduct themselves politely to the public. Caustic, demeaning or abusive
language or conduct will not be permitted.
§ 157.05 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (a)   All newly hired employees automatically serve a six-month probationary
period; however, a supervisor may, for just cause, extend the original
probationary period by three additional months with the permission of the Mayor
and Town Council. The probationary period is not to exceed nine months. If at
any time during the probationary period the probationer’s performance is
unsatisfactory, he or she will be terminated.
   (b)   Police Department personnel are required to serve their full one-year
probationary period as stated under the Civil Service Code.
§ 157.06 POSITION TYPES.
   There shall be two types of positions:
   (a)   Permanent, full-time: work week equal to 40 hours per week or equal to
or exceeding 2,080 hours per year.
   (b)   Temporary, part-time: work week less than 40 hours per week. All part-
time positions are considered temporary.
§ 157.07 PAYMENT OF SALARIES AND WAGES.
   (a)   All employees shall be paid bi-weekly. The pay period shall end every
two weeks on Sunday at 12:00 a.m. Paychecks shall be made available the
following Wednesday at 3:00 p.m. unless the payroll office notifies the
supervisors and/or employees that checks may be distributed earlier.
   (b)   The scheduled pay dates for all employees may be changed by the Mayor
and/or Town Council.
   (c)   Employees shall be compensated only for designated work periods.
Clocking in early and/or clocking out late shall not result in overtime
compensation and should be avoided unless scheduled by the supervisor.
   (d)   Employees who have been laid off, discharged, retired or separated
from employment with the Town of Nutter Fort will be compensated by check for
any unused vacation time earned and accumulated at the time of separation.
   (e)   EMS employees will receive an additional $1.25 per hour of pay in
exchange for EMS employees only receiving the following paid holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Memorial Day;
      (3)   Independence Day;
      (4)   Labor Day;
      (5)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (6)   Christmas Day.
   (f)   EMS employees shall not receive paid holidays for any other days as
the President, Governor, or other duly constituted authority proclaim to be
official holidays or days of special observance or days for the general
cessation of business and shall not receive any additional holiday given at the
discretion of the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2006; Ord. passed 2-2-7-2007; Ord. passed 2-12-08; Ord. 2024-
04, passed 5-28-2024; Ord. 2024-08, passed 7- -2024)
§ 157.08 PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   The payroll office makes several deductions from an employee’s bi-weekly
paycheck. Some deductions are required by state or federal laws. Other
deductions, at the request of the individual employee, are taken out upon
approval by the Mayor or his or her designee and availability of space in the
software program.
   (a)   Deductions required by state and federal laws include:
      (1)   Federal income tax withheld;
      (2)   State income tax withheld;
      (3)   Social Security payroll tax;
      (4)   Medicare payroll tax;
      (5)   West Virginia Public Employees Retirement Fund Contributions; and
      (6)   Wage garnishments and child support payments as required by law.
   (b)   Deductions taken out at the request of the employee and with the
approval of the Mayor:
      (1)   Life insurance;
      (2)   Health insurance;
      (3)   Deferred compensation plan contributions;
      (4)   Harrison County Federal Credit Union loans or savings deposits; and
      (5)   Other types of withholdings as authorized through payroll
deduction.
§ 157.09 SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
   Employees who use, or are under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol at
work or on the Town of Nutter Fort’s premises present a hazard to themselves
and other employees. In addition to the potential criminal consequences of
their conduct, these employees reduce productivity and hurt morale. Therefore,
the following policy shall be enforced.
   (a)   The use, sale, attempt to sell, possession or distribution of illegal
drugs, alcohol, or controlled substances (unless prescribed by a licensed
physician for medical reasons), and the paraphernalia associated with such, on
the Town of Nutter Fort premises or while on Town of Nutter Fort business is
prohibited and shall result in discharge.
   (b)   If an employee appears to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol,
the Town of Nutter Fort will require that employee to take a medical test, at
the Town of Nutter Fort’s expense and at an independent testing facility, to
determine alcohol and/or drug levels. If the employee refuses to take the test,
the Town of Nutter Fort may impose discipline up to and including discharge.
   (c)   Employees testing positive for illegal drugs, alcohol, or controlled
substances while at work will be subject to disciplinary action, including
discharge.
   (d)   If an employee is required to take a legal drug for medical reasons,
and that drug may impair the employee’s ability to safely perform his or her
job duties, then the employee will be required to advise the supervisor of that
fact prior to commencing work and provide an appropriate doctor’s note.
The supervisor may do an evaluation to assess the employee’s fitness for
performing all work duties safely.
   (e)   Employees consent to and recognize the right of the Town of Nutter
Fort and its authorized agents to search them, their automobiles and other
property, when entering or leaving Town of Nutter Fort property. The Town of
Nutter Fort may conduct random drug and/or alcohol testing of employees.
   (f)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires otherwise.
      ILLEGAL DRUGS. 
         (a)   Drugs that are not legally obtainable; or
         (b)   Drugs that are only obtainable with a physician’s prescription,
but are acquired or used when the individual is not under a physician’s care or
direction.
      LEGAL DRUGS.
         (a)   Alcohol;
         (b)   Drugs prescribed by a physician; or
         (c)   All other legally obtainable drugs which impair an individual’s
physical state or mental awareness.
   (g)   Employees who enter a town-approved substance abuse center on their
own accord shall be permitted to take an uncompensated leave of absence for
program attendance as long as the individual abstains from the use of the
problem substance. Employees attending such a center shall be permitted to
return to their job, provided they refrain from using the problem substance.
   (h)   The employee may use earned sick leave for time off to attend such a
facility after all vacation leave and compensatory time has been utilized. If
attendance at a town-approved program requires more time than the employee has
in accumulated leave and compensatory time, the employee shall be uncompensated
for the remainder of his or her absence. The employee shall continue to accrue
vacation and sick leave while attending an approved treatment center.
   (i)   The Town of Nutter Fort shall only provide rehabilitation treatment
support for employees who approach the Mayor prior to the inception of any
disciplinary measures which would result in the employee’s termination. The
Town of Nutter Fort shall only assist an employee for one treatment program.
Employees who find themselves in need of a substance abuse treatment program on
an additional occasion shall participate without any financial assistance from
the Town of Nutter Fort. This policy is subject to change at the will and
pleasure of the town officials.
   (j)   A written record on all discussions, decisions and actions will be
kept in the employee’s personnel file.
§ 157.10 SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (a)   The Town of Nutter Fort believes that all employees have the right to
be treated with equal dignity in the work place. Town officials recognize that
a hostile work environment reduces the effectiveness of business operations and
usually results in lower productivity. The Town of Nutter Fort considers the
respectful treatment of all employees to include the absence of sexual
harassment from the work place. These realizations provide the basis for the
Town of Nutter Fort’s policy against sexual harassment in the daily operations
of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   SEXUAL HARASSMENT is defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests
for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made, either explicitly or
implicitly, a term or a condition of an individual’s employment or successful
score on a performance evaluation;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment affecting such individuals; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with all individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (c)   Town employees and officials are prohibited from engaging in any of
the conduct described above.
   (d)   The Town of Nutter Fort’s continuing policy is to provide employees
with a workplace free from any form of sexual harassment. Sexual harassment in
any manner or form is expressly prohibited.
   (e)   All claims of sexual harassment shall be promptly and thoroughly
investigated and corrective action taken if warranted by the results of the
investigation. Such action may include disciplinary measures up to and
including immediate discharge.
   (f)   Any employee who feels that he or she has been subjected to sexual
harassment by his or her supervisor, fellow employees, citizens, and/or guests
of the Town of Nutter Fort, should report the incident in writing to his or her
immediate supervisor or the Mayor directly. If the complaint involves the
supervisor, the incident shall be reported to the Mayor. If the complaint
involves the Mayor, the complaint should be reported to Council.
   (g)   Investigations shall be designed to protect the reasonable privacy
interests of all parties involved. Appropriate disciplinary and corrective
actions shall be taken, dependent upon the circumstances. A written record on
all discussions, decisions and actions will be kept in the employee’s personnel
file.
§ 157.11 ADA GRIEVANCES.
   (a)   The following guidelines are established for dealing with complaints
arising under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
   (b)   Any employee or visitor of the Town of Nutter Fort granted rights
under the Americans with Disabilities Act may file a grievance or complaint
with the Town of Nutter Fort at any time without fear of penalty or
retribution. The Town of Nutter Fort has instituted the following procedural
guidelines for the filing of grievances in regard to the Town of Nutter Fort’s
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. The Town Treasurer shall
serve as the town’s ADA compliance officer.
   (c)   Step 1: The grievant must file a complaint in writing to the town’s
ADA compliance officer. This staff member shall investigate the complaint and
render a decision in writing within 15 working days of the filing of the
complaint. A copy of this outcome shall be mailed to the grievant.
   (d)   Step 2: If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision of the
town’s ADA compliance officer, the grievant may file a written complaint with
the Mayor. The Mayor shall investigate the complaint and render a decision
within 15 working days. The decision shall be made in writing if requested by
the grievant. The decision of the Mayor is final.
   (e)   Step 3: If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision of the
Mayor, the grievant may file a written complaint with the Department of
Justice’s Coordination and Review Section of the Civil Rights Division. A
complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged ADA violation.
Coordination and Review Section, Civil Rights Division
U.S. Department of Justice
P.O. Box 6618
Washington, D.C. 20035-6118
§ 157.12 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   Grievances shall be reported and managed in the following manner.
   (a)   Supervisor. In order to minimize the possibility of misunderstandings,
an employee is required to discuss any problems or complaints with his or her
immediate supervisor within five days of the occurrence of the problem creating
the grievance. The supervisor will investigate and obtain all pertinent
information and provide a solution or explanation and reason for the decision
to the employee. A written record on all discussions, decisions and actions
will be kept in the employee’s personnel file.
   (b)   Mayor. If the employee is not satisfied with the answer in Step 1, he
or she may submit the grievance in writing to the Mayor and request a meeting
of the employee, the supervisor and the Mayor within five working days after
the grievance is received. The Mayor and supervisor will review all facts
involved in the grievance and the Mayor will reply in writing within five
working days.
   (c)   Council. If an employee is not satisfied in Step 2, he or she may
bring the same grievance in writing with the written reply of the Mayor
enclosed to the attention of the Town Council. Council will investigate,
coordinate, and review all facts involved with the supervisor and Mayor and
send the employee a written reply to the grievance within five days after
receipt of the grievance. An employee has the right to appeal any decision to
the circuit court.
§ 157.13 DISCIPLINARY ACTION POLICY.
   (a)   In order to assure fair and equitable treatment of all employees of
the Town of Nutter Fort, it may become necessary to impose disciplinary action
to safeguard fellow employees and uphold town policies. The Town of Nutter Fort
has the duty and responsibility to take disciplinary action against employees
who violate federal, state, and town laws as well as town policies, rules, and
procedures or when it is in the best interest of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   A supervisor shall have the right to discipline for just cause.
Disciplinary action shall be taken immediately whenever the conduct of any
employee interferes with the operation of the unit or department.
   (c)   The Police and Fire Departments have separate rules and regulations
pertaining to disciplinary action policies.
   (d)   If any employee has been placed on probation, suspended, or discharged
and the employee believes that they have been dealt with unjustly, the employee
must begin the steps to file a grievance within five days of notification of
the disciplinary action to be taken.
§ 157.14 JURY DUTY.
   Employees who are called to serve on jury duty will be allowed paid leave
for those times during the workday in which they are required to report for
service.
§ 157.15 SEATBELTS.
   All persons who are either operating a town vehicle, or are passengers in a
town vehicle owned by the Town of Nutter Fort must wear a seatbelt.
§ 157.16 CONFERENCES, SCHOOLS, WORKSHOPS AND SEMINARS.
   The Mayor or supervisor may approve attendance at programs which may benefit
the Town of Nutter Fort by furthering the efficiency, training, expertise or
knowledge in their jobs with the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (a)   Travel. Expenses must get prior approval by the supervisor and be
certified by the Mayor. Necessary costs for which an employee may be reimbursed
include the following.
      (1)   Public transportation;
      (2)   Private transportation excluding spouses; and
      (3)   Taxi or bus service.
      (4)   If a personal vehicle is used, you will be reimbursed at the same
rate used by the county and the state in connection with town business.
      (5)   Additionally, the cost for toll bridges, turnpike charges and
parking will be reimbursed when receipts are submitted to the Treasurer. If a
town-owned vehicle is used, reimbursement is for gasoline instead of mileage
when gasoline receipts are submitted to the Treasurer. Under no circumstances
may unauthorized persons ride in a town vehicle without the approval of the
supervisor or Mayor.
   (b)   Lodging. Reimbursement will be made for the cost of your room. Prior
approval by the Mayor is necessary before reservations are made. Reimbursement
will not cover extra charges, such as long distance phone calls not related to
town business, lodging and food for spouses, valet or laundry service, or pay
TV.
   (c)   Meals. Meals for the employee only will be reimbursed. A receipt for
all expenses must be submitted to the Treasurer within ten days for
reimbursement.
§ 157.17 SMOKING.
   No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigarette, cigar or pipe in any
building owned or operated by the Town of Nutter Fort.
§ 157.18 INCLEMENT WEATHER OR UNIQUE SITUATIONS.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to close the Town of Nutter Fort
municipal building and/or other town department offices on days when, in the
Mayor’s opinion, inclement weather or unique situations create a need for
changing normal patterns of operation. The determination of such a situation
shall always be at the discretion of the Mayor or his or her designee and shall
never be up to the employee for determination. Employees with workstations in
buildings which are closed shall not attend work unless the employee is
classified as an essential employee. Essential employees shall include police
officers and maintenance workers.
§ 157.19 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (a)   After one year of full-time employment, the Town of Nutter Fort
provides and pays for a hospitalization policy. During the first 12 months of
insurance coverage the employee must pay 30% of the cost of the premium which
is automatically withheld from his or her paycheck.
   (b)   All employees having health insurance coverage will be mandated to
comply with all premium discounts offered by PEIA. If compliance is not meet,
the employee will be responsible for these charges, and they will be
automatically deducted from their first paycheck of the month.
   (c)   Effective October 25, 2011, any new employee from this date forth who
uses tobacco products will be responsible for any additional charges as stated
in the most current PEIA Shopper’s Guide. Depending on the coverage the
employee has, charges may be for either single or family coverage. These
charges will be automatically deducted from the employee’s first paycheck of
the month.
(Ord. passed 10-25-2011)
§ 157.20 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (a)   Effective November 1, 2009, employees have the option of opting out of
a portion of the health insurance program or opting out entirely. The two
methods by which an employee may elect to opt out of the program are as
follows.
      (1)   Option I. An employee may elect to drop his or her insurance
coverage with the Town of Nutter Fort entirely. If an employee has family or
single coverage and also has health insurance by another private major medical
health insurance provider, he or she can elect to opt out of the Town of Nutter
Fort’s insurance coverage and will receive a monthly incentive of $250 divided
equally between the first and second paycheck of each month, less payroll
deductions. In order to qualify for this program, the employee must provide a
certificate of insurance stating that he or she has other private major medical
health insurance coverage. Medical cards offered through state agencies such as
the Department of Human Services will not qualify an employee for this program.
If at any time the employee loses his or her other coverage, he or she will be
required to notify the payroll department in writing within 30 days, and renew
at least single coverage with the own.
      (2)   Option II. An employee eligible for family coverage may elect to
reduce his or her insurance coverage from family to single. Employees who
select this option will receive a monthly incentive of $150 divided equally
between the first and second paycheck of the month. The employee will remain
eligible to receive this monthly incentive bonus as long as he or she continues
to qualify for family coverage. Therefore, if at any time the employee’s family
status changes, such as death, divorce or children reaching the maximum age, he
or she would be required to notify the Town of Nutter Fort that he or she is no
longer eligible for family coverage and would therefore lose this monthly
incentive. Employees may elect Option II at this time and later may elect to
opt out of the insurance program entirely and receive the additional $100 if he
or she meets the qualifications as outlined in Option I.
   (b)   If an employee participating in the optional insurance program loses
eligibility for any reason and fails to notify the payroll department, he or
she will be required to refund any payments received while ineligible. This
program may be amended or terminated at the discretion of the Council.
   (c)   An employee who elects to return to the Town of Nutter Fort’s program
for single or family coverage will be required to meet the eligibility
requirements in effect at that time.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2010)
§ 157.21 LIFE INSURANCE.
   (a)   After one year of employment, the Town of Nutter Fort provides and
pays for a group life insurance policy for all permanent, full-time employees,
in the amount of $10,000. Throughout the first year of employment, the employee
must pay 30% of the premium.
   (b)   Optional and dependent life insurances are available under this
policy. This additional insurance is the employee’s responsibility and will be
a payroll deduction.
§ 157.22 PENSION.
   (a)   The West Virginia State Code, currently known as W.Va. Code § 5-16-13,
the Public Employees Retirement Act, or “PERS” is hereby adopted by reference
as though it were copied herein fully.
   (b)   Any additions, changes or adaptations to said Code, further
incorporated by the state, shall be incorporated by the town accordingly.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2006; Ord. passed 7-25-2006)
§ 157.23 HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   Permanent, full-time employees are entitled to the following paid
holidays. If a holiday would fall on either Saturday or Sunday, the holiday
would be taken on either Friday or Monday. When New Year’s Day falls on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday, the preceding half day (not to exceed
four hours) on New Year’s Eve (December 31) are given as time off.
   (b)   Paid holidays are as follows:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Day;
      (3)   President’s Day;
      (4)   Memorial Day;
      (5)   Juneteenth Day;
      (6)   West Virginia Day;
      (7)   Independence Day;
      (8)   Labor Day;
      (9)   Columbus Day;
      (10)   Veteran’s Day;
      (11)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (12)   Day after Thanksgiving;
      (13)   Last working day before Christmas;
      (14)   Christmas Day
      (15)   Any day on which a primary election, or general election, or other
election is held throughout the state;
      (16)   Any other days as the President, Governor, or other duly
constituted authority proclaim to be official holidays or days of special
observance or days for the general cessation of business, is given as time off.
      (17)   Any additional holiday can be given at the discretion of the
Mayor.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 7-11-2023)
§ 157.24 VACATION.
   (a)   Vacation benefits. Permanent, full-time employees are eligible for the
following vacation benefits:
      (1)   Five paid vacation days after the completion of six months of
continuous service;
      (2)   Ten paid vacation days after the completion of one year of
continuous service;
      (3)   Any employee existing as of the effective date of this section
shall be eligible for 12 paid vacation days after the completion of two years
of continuous service;
      (4)   Fifteen paid vacation days after the completion of five years of
continuous service;
      (5)   Twenty paid vacation days after the completion of ten years of
continuous service;
      (6)   Twenty-five paid vacation days after the completion of 20 years of
continuous service; and
      (7)   Thirty paid vacation days after the completion of 30 years of
continuous service.
   (b)   Vacation use limits and carry-over days. Permanent, full-time
employees are eligible to use their vacation after six months of employment
with the Town of Nutter Fort. Vacation days must either be taken by the end of
the calendar year for which they are earned or may be purchased by the Town of
Nutter Fort in accordance with this section. Vacation days will not be carried
over unless special circumstances warrant approval by the Mayor. Carried-over
vacation days must be taken within the next calendar year.
   (c)   Unused vacation days at end of calendar year. Employees who have
vacation time remaining at the end of a calendar year shall be compensated by
check for the unused time.
   (d)   Unused vacation days at time of termination. Employees who have been
laid off, discharged, retired or separated from employment with the Town of
Nutter Fort will be compensated by check for any unused vacation time earned
and accumulated at the time of separation.
   (e)   Vacation policy, Maintenance Department. 
      (1)   Prior to April 1, vacations will be scheduled on the basis of
seniority. After this date, scheduling will be on a “first come first serve”
basis.
      (2)   For all vacation time to be taken, a written 48-hour notice will be
required and must be approved by the Maintenance Supervisor. Vacation may be
denied in an emergency.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2007; Ord. passed 2-12-2008)
§ 157.25 OVERTIME COMPENSATION.
   (a)   Compensation time for permanent, full-time employees for overtime
hours worked shall be made in cash or by giving the employee compensatory time
off. Overtime compensation shall be given to employees who work more than 40
hours in the work week.
   (b)   Overtime compensation for permanent, full-time employees shall be
granted based on one and one-half hours compensation for each one hour worked.
Each employee shall have the option to receive either a cash payment equal to
one and one-half times the employee’s gross hourly rate or compensatory time
equal to one and one-half hours off for each one hour worked. Compensatory time
off for all employees will be made by an agreement between the employee and the
supervisor and will be on a voluntary basis.
   (c)   Employees shall not work overtime without prior approval from their
supervisor or the supervisor’s designee. If overtime hours are worked without
prior approval, the employee shall not be compensated for those hours.
   (d)   Employees shall be compensated only for designated work periods.
Clocking in early and/or clocking out late shall not result in overtime
compensation and should be avoided unless scheduled by the supervisor.
§ 157.26 LONGEVITY PAY.
   (a)   The Town of Nutter Fort has implemented a longevity program under
which permanent, full-time employees who are compensated 2,080 hours or more
per year shall receive additional compensation for tenure of service.
   (b)   The pay rate will be $5 per month for each year of service and will be
divided among each paycheck during the month. For example, after one year of
employment an employee would receive $5 per month. After two years of
employment, an employee would receive $10 per month. This will create a pay
differential between long-time employees and those employees just starting.
   (c)   Fifteen will be the maximum number of years that may be accumulated
for this program. For example, an employee that has worked for 15 years would
receive $75 dollars in longevity pay per month.
§ 157.27 LEAVES.
   All leaves are to be granted upon the employees understanding that if he or
she does not return to active employment for a period of at least six months at
the end of the leave period he or she will be required to reimburse the Town of
Nutter Fort for any health care premiums paid by the Town of Nutter Fort while
the employee was on leave.
   (a)   Sick leave; permanent, full-time employees only.
      (1)   Accrued sick leave with pay may be taken by permanent, full-time
employees when they are unable to perform their duties due to sickness, injury,
or confinement due to contagious disease. Sick leave will not be paid at the
same time as workers’ compensation benefits.
      (2)   An employee must report his or her absence to the department
supervisor or the supervisor’s designee prior to the start of the workday or
within the first 30 minutes of the employee’s starting time.
      (3)   Sick leave shall be cumulative at the rate of one and one-fourth
days per month of service, or major portion thereof. An employee who has not
worked the equivalent of 80 hours per each month’s service shall not be
entitled to earn sick leave, unless the employee is scheduled off and receiving
paid benefits. Paid benefits shall be counted as hours worked.
      (4)   An employee may be required to furnish a certificate from an
attending physician for all consecutive days of sick leave beyond three days.
Employees shall be allowed to use no more than ten sick days in any one
calendar year without the support of a medical excuse.
      (5)   Sick leave shall not be taken before it is earned, and shall not be
granted to part-time, temporary, emergency, or probationary employees.
      (6)   The minimum charge against sick leave shall be one-half day. Sick
leave is to be used as protection against unexpected illness and is not to be
used as a substitute for vacation time. When employment is terminated, no
compensation of any sort will be granted for unused sick leave time.
      (7)   Employees who have completed their probationary period and are off
due to sickness or compensable injury will be permitted to accrue seniority for
a period up to three years and have insurance premiums paid for by the Town of
Nutter Fort until their return to work on an active basis or until they are
judged disabled and not competent to return to work by a proper medical
authority.
      (8)   As a means of rewarding those employees who have used only a small
amount of sick time, any permanent, full-time employee who uses less than six
days sick leave will be paid two-thirds of a day’s wages for each day under six
days used in a calendar year.
   (b)   Parental/family leave.
      (1)   An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of 12 weeks of unpaid
parental leave, following the exhaustion of all his or her sick and vacation
leave, during any 12-month period. The unpaid leave shall be granted to an
employee for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Because of the birth of a son or daughter of the employee;
         (b)   Because of the placement of a son or daughter with the employee
for adoption;
         (c)   In order to care for the employee’s son, daughter, spouse,
parent or dependent who has a serious health condition; or
         (d)   Because of a serious health condition that makes the employee
unable to perform the essential functions of his or her job.
      (2)   In the case of a son, daughter, spouse, parent or dependent that
has a serious health condition, such family leave may be taken intermittently
when medically necessary.
      (3)   An employee may take family leave on a part-time basis and on a
part-time leave schedule, but the period during which the number of workweeks
of leave may be taken may not exceed 12 consecutive months, and such leave
shall be scheduled so as not to unduly disrupt the operations of the employer.
      (4)   If a leave because of birth or adoption is foreseeable, the
employee shall provide the Town of Nutter Fort with two weeks’ written notice.
If a leave under this section is foreseeable because of planned medical
treatment or supervision, the employee shall make a reasonable effort to
schedule the leave so as not to disrupt the operations of the employer, subject
to the approval of the health care provider.
      (5)   If an employee requests family leave to care for a family member
with a serious health condition as authorized in this article, the Town of
Nutter Fort may require the employee to provide certification by a health care
provider of the health condition. The certification shall be sufficient if it
contains the following:
         (a)   That the child, dependent, parent or employee has a serious
health condition;
         (b)   The date the serious health condition commenced and its probable
duration; and
         (c)   The medical facts regarding the serious health condition.
      (6)   The position held by the employee immediately before the leave is
commenced shall be held upon a period not to exceed the 12-week period of the
parental leave and the employee shall be returned to that position, provided,
that the Town of Nutter Fort may employ a temporary employee or temporary
employees to fill said position for the period of the parental leave.
   (c)   Medical disability leave.
      (1)   A permanent, full-time employee with at least one year of town
service will be allowed to take up to 12 months of unpaid leave for recovery
from a medical disability, if the disability prohibits the employee from
performing the necessary tasks and functions of the position. An employee
taking such leave must first exhaust all sick leave days.
      (2)   The employee will be required to submit a letter in writing from a
certified physician to support the need for medical disability leave. The Town
of Nutter Fort has the option of requesting a second medical opinion on the
situation. Requests for leaves of this nature must be made in writing to the
Mayor for his or her approval. Requests must include the employee’s name,
department of employment, job title, nature of medical disability, anticipated
length of leave needed, and the certification of a physician. Leave of this
type is excluded from workers’ compensation cases.
      (3)   An employee on medical disability leave will not accumulate sick
leave unless he or she works the required number of hours or shifts. The
employee will continue to receive coverage under the town’s health care
insurance plan. He or she may not receive sick leave pay during the leave
period if the disability resulted from a job-related injury covered by worker’s
compensation. An employee planning to return to work after a medical leave must
provide the Town of Nutter Fort with a letter from his or her physician
certifying that the employee is capable of performing the tasks and functions
of the position.
      (4)   An employee taking unpaid leave beyond a 12-month period will
automatically become classified as an inactive employee. An inactive employee
will not receive any town benefits or health insurance. Inactive employees
shall automatically be terminated after the sixth month of inactive status.
   (d)   Bereavement leave.
      (1)   Upon the death of an immediate family member, a permanent, full-
time employee will be allowed up to three days off from work with pay. The
following are considered immediate family: spouse, mother, father, stepfather,
stepmother, sister, stepsister, brother, stepbrother, son, stepson, daughter,
stepdaughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, employee’s grandparents and grandchildren. If an
aunt or uncle resides with the employee, such relative is also considered a
part of the employee’s immediate family.
      (2)   The leave will not be charged against the employee’s sick or
vacation leave. Employees must contact their supervisor or the supervisor’s
designee before the commencement of the first day on which the employee needs
to be absent.
   (e)   Educational leave.
      (1)   The Mayor may approve permanent, full-time employee leave without
pay for a period not to exceed four calendar months for purposes of an
instructional or learning nature. Such leave might include the participation of
the employee in course work, seminars, briefing seminars, briefing sessions, or
conferences intended to improve the skills or professional abilities of the
employee.
      (2)   The employee must submit a written request to the Mayor for the
approval of such leave. The request must include the employee’s name,
department of employment, job title, nature of leave, anticipated length of
leave needed, and any supporting literature.
      (3)   Any employee permitted to utilize such leave shall not be allowed
to accumulate sick leave for any month in which they do not work the necessary
hours or shifts.
      (4)   Employees on such leave will still be covered by the town’s health
insurance.
   (f)   Military leave.
      (1)   Any permanent, full-time employee of the Town of Nutter Fort who
shall be a member of the National Guard or any military reserve unit of the
United States Armed Service, shall be entitled to a leave of absence from his
or her respective offices or employment without loss of pay, status or
efficiency rating, on the days during which the employee shall be engaged in
drills, parades or other duty, during business hours ordered by proper
authority, or for field training or active service of the state for a maximum
period of ten days in any one calendar year.
      (2)   The term “without loss of pay” means that the employee shall
continue to receive his or her normal salary or compensation, not withstanding
the fact that such employee may have received other compensation from federal
or state sources during the same period. Benefits of this section shall not
accrue for individuals ordered or called to active duty by the President. A
copy of the employee’s orders must be produced for extra duty.
      (3)   Effective March 10, 2005, new regulations relating to USERRA are.
         (a)   Employees have a right to be reinstated under certain
conditions.
         (b)   They have a right to continue their company health benefits
while on military leave for up to 24 months and/or to be immediately reinstated
upon return and that they have a right to be free from discrimination and
retaliation in initial employment, reemployment, retention, promotion or “any
benefit of employment.”
   (g)   Uncompensated leave of absence.
      (1)   Permanent, full-time employees are eligible for a leave of absence
without pay after one year of employment with the town. A request must be
submitted in writing to the employee’s immediate supervisor stating the reason
for the request and the approximate amount of time needed.
      (2)   The leave of absence must be approved by Town Council.
      (3)   All benefits shall be suspended until the employee’s return to
work.
      (4)   Uncompensated leaves shall not exceed 12 months in duration unless
an extension is granted by Town Council. An employee who does not report to
work within the maximum allowable time period awarded shall be terminated.
§ 157.28 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   (a)   Any employee, whether part-time, full-time, or temporary; injured
while on the job is covered under the provisions of the workers’ compensation
law of the state.
   (b)   Any employee suffering an injury on the job must report the incident
to his or her supervisor immediately. Such reporting shall occur for even the
slightest of injuries. The supervisor or his or her designee shall complete an
employee report of injury form and submit the appropriate sections of the form
within one workday of the occurrence to the Town Treasurer or his or her
designee. Failure to immediately give notice may weigh against a finding of
compensability.
   (c)   As stipulated in W.Va. Code § 23-4-1, employees are not permitted to
receive sick leave and workers’ compensation benefits simultaneously.
   (d)   In case of job-related accidents which result in the loss of work, an
employee will use accumulated sick leave for the first three days, provided
that the employee has sufficient sick leave to cover this period, at which time
workers’ compensation begins payment, provided proper claims have been filed.
If an employee does not have accumulated sick days, he or she shall be unpaid
for the three days before workers’ compensation commences payment. The town has
five days in which to report to workers’ compensation after being notified by
the employee.
   (e)   Employees on workers’ compensation shall be paid according to the
following.
      (1)   Employees missing less than four days will be paid sick leave
benefits.
      (2)   Employees missing less than eight days but more than four days will
be paid the first three days as sick leave and the remaining days by workers’
compensation.
      (3)   Employees missing more than seven days will be paid by workers’
compensation from the date of injury.
      (4)   Employees who receive workers’ compensation benefits while off from
work may only return to work if they provide the Town of Nutter Fort with a
physician’s letter stating that the employee may return to work and perform the
essential functions of the position with or without a reasonable accommodation
for the disability. Both the employee and physician must sign a copy of the
employee’s position description confirming that the employee is capable of
performing the essential functions of the position. If the employee will need
reasonable accommodations in performing the essential functions, then the
physician must outline the necessary accommodations. The Mayor shall determine
whether the accommodations are reasonable.
(Ord. passed 2-14-2006)
§ 157.29 VEHICLE ACCIDENT.
   In any accident involving a town vehicle or a personal vehicle while
conducting Town of Nutter Fort business, the accident must be reported
immediately to the appropriate law enforcement agency and to the employee’s
supervisor.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2010)
CHAPTER SEVEN: JUDICIAL
ARTICLE 171: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
171.01   Court created; jurisdiction generally
   
171.02   Municipal Judge designated
   
171.03   Powers and duties of judge
   
171.04   Duties of Police Department
   
171.05   Rules; records
   
171.06   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
171.07   Appeals
   
171.08   Contempt
   
171.09   Bonds
   
171.10   Court costs
   
171.11   Payment of costs and fines
Cross References
   Costs for crime victims reparation fund, see W.Va. Code § 14-2A-4
   Costs for funding law enforcement training academies, see W.Va. Code § 30-
29-4
   Establishment, see W.Va. Code § 8-10-2
   General rights of appeal, see W.Va. Code § 8A-2-1
§ 171.01 COURT CREATED; JURISDICTION GENERALLY.
   There is hereby created a court, to be known as the “Municipal Court”, which
shall have criminal jurisdiction over violations of town ordinances and the
criminal jurisdiction of a magistrate of the State of West Virginia with
respect to offenses committed within the town limits.
§ 171.02 MUNICIPAL JUDGE DESIGNATED.
   There shall be a judge, to be known as the “Municipal Judge”, who shall be
the Mayor.
§ 171.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDGE.
   (a)   The Municipal Judge shall preside over the Municipal Court. He or she
shall be a conservator of the peace within the town, and insofar as any
ordinance of the town is concerned, shall have and exercise all such powers and
duties in criminal cases as a magistrate may lawfully exercise under the
statutes of the state, and he or she shall also be ex-officio a magistrate
within the town, and shall, within the town, have and exercise all of the
criminal powers and perform all duties fixed by law in a magistrate; except
that, he or she shall have no jurisdiction in civil cases; and he or she shall
have such further powers and perform such other duties as may be from time to
time prescribed or conferred by any law of the state or by ordinance of the
town.
   (b)   The Municipal Judge shall have power to issue warrants upon complaint
under oath by any person or officer for the arrest of anyone charged with any
offense within the jurisdiction of the court. The Municipal Judge shall hear
and determine all cases over which the court has jurisdiction, and within the
limits prescribed by ordinance or by general law shall have the power to punish
by fine or imprisonment, or both. The Municipal Judge shall have power to
summons persons or subpoena witnesses for the trial of any case before him or
her, to compel the attendance of police officers of the town, to require the
Chief of Police to enforce all judgments or orders entered by him or her in the
exercise of his or her powers as Municipal Judge and to issue executions for
all fines, penalties and costs imposed by him or her. The proceedings for the
recovery of fines or for the enforcement of penalties fixed by any ordinance or
law shall, so far as applicable, conform to the provisions of the general law
governing civil proceedings before a magistrate of the state.
§ 171.04 DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All warrants and other process and orders of the Municipal Court shall be
directed to the Chief of Police, to be executed by him or her or by one of his
or her subordinates. The police officer executing any such process or order
shall have the same authority and be subject to the same liability as a Sheriff
of the state in performance of like services.
§ 171.05 RULES; RECORDS.
   In the discharge of his or her duties and in the trial of cases, the
Municipal Judge shall follow the rules prescribed by law for criminal
proceedings before a magistrate of the state. The Municipal Judge shall keep a
record of all warrants issued by him or her, of all persons arrested and
brought before him or her and of all trials, fines or sentences imposed or
judgments entered by him or her in a permanent book to be known as the
“Municipal Court Docket”. A record of all entries made in such docket shall be
signed by the Municipal Judge on the date of such entry.
§ 171.06 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Municipal Judge shall keep or cause to be kept a record of every traffic
complaint, or other legal form of traffic charge deposited with or presented to
the Municipal Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau, if and when he or she
shall establish such Bureau, and shall keep a record of every official action
by the Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in reference thereto, including,
but not limited to, a record of every conviction, forfeiture of bail, judgment
of acquittal and the amount of fine or forfeiture resulting from every traffic
complaint deposited with or presented to the Court or Traffic Violations
Bureau.
§ 171.07 APPEALS.
   (a)   Any person sentenced to imprisonment, or any individual or corporation
against whom a fine of $10 or more is assessed, shall have the right of appeal
from such judgment of the Municipal Judge to the court having jurisdiction over
appeals therefrom, upon the payment of costs and the execution of an appeal
bond, with security deemed sufficient by the Municipal Judge, in a penalty of
an amount deemed sufficient by the Municipal Judge, and costs, conditioned that
the appellant will appear before the Appellate Court on the first day of the
next term thereof to answer to the offense with which he or she is charged and
to perform and satisfy any judgment which may be entered against him or her by
the Appellate Court on such appeal.
   (b)   In no case shall a fine of less than $10 be imposed by a Municipal
Judge if the defendant, his or her agent or attorney object thereto. If an
appeal be taken, the warrant of arrest, transcript of the judgment, the appeal
bond and other papers and exhibits in the case shall be forthwith delivered by
the Municipal Judge to the Clerk of the Appellate Court which shall have
jurisdiction to try the case in accordance with law.
§ 171.08 CONTEMPT.
   (a)   The Municipal Judge may punish for contempt a person guilty of any of
the following acts:
      (1)   Contemptuous or insolent behavior towards him or her while he or
she is engaged in the trial of a case or in any other judicial proceeding;
      (2)   Any breach of the peace, willful disturbance or indecent conduct in
the presence of such Judge while so engaged, or so near as to obstruct or
interrupt his or her proceedings;
      (3)   Violence or threats of violence to such judge or any officer,
juror, witness or party going to, attending or returning from, any judicial
proceeding before such Judge in respect to anything done or to be done in the
course of such proceeding;
      (4)   Misbehavior of any officer in his or her official character in
respect to any action or judicial proceeding had or pending before such judge
or any process, judgment, order or notice therein; and
      (5)   Willful resistance, in the presence of the Judge by an officer,
juror, witness, party or other person to any lawful process or order of such
Judge.
   (b)   An order of arrest may be issued by the Municipal Judge on which any
person guilty of contempt may be taken and brought before him or her, or such
person may be taken in custody by any officer or person present, upon the oral
order of the Judge, and held to answer for the contempt. An opportunity must be
given him or her to be heard in defense or explanation of his or her conduct;
and the Judge may thereupon discharge him or her, or adjudge him or her guilty
of contempt, and punish him or her by fine or imprisonment, or both. The fine
shall not exceed $10 or imprisonment of five days.
   (c)   The conviction for contempt, specifying the particular circumstances
of the offense and judgment thereon, shall be entered by the Municipal Judge in
his or her docket. A warrant of commitment for the term of imprisonment
adjudged may be issued by the Judge, commanding an officer to take the offender
to the jail of the county, and the jailer to imprison him or her therein for
the adjudged term; and such warrant shall contain a transcript of the entry in
the docket. The judgment may include, in addition to the fine, all costs in the
case, including cost of arresting and keeping in prison the offender.
§ 171.09 BONDS.
   (a)   (1)   Except as may be provided otherwise in any case by state law,
the codified ordinances or other ordinances, whenever any person is arrested
for any violation of an ordinance of the town or for any offense of which the
Municipal Judge has jurisdiction, it shall be lawful for the Municipal Judge,
Recorder, Municipal Court Clerk, Chief of Police and the desk sergeant or
person in charge of police headquarters to admit such person to bail upon the
execution of a bond to the town in such an amount, not less than $25, nor more
than the maximum fine which may be adjudged against such person for the offense
or offenses he or she is alleged to have committed, plus the costs which could
be assessed against him or her, as in the discretion of the officer will secure
the prisoner’s presence, conditioned that the accused will appear upon a day
named, before the Municipal Judge, to await trial; and every such bond taken
shall be filed as soon as practicable with the Municipal Court by the officer
approving and taking such bond; and the Municipal Judge, Recorder, Municipal
Court Clerk, Chief of Police and the desk sergeant or person in charge of
police headquarters shall each have the power to approve any bond taken under
the provisions of this section, precedence being given to the ranking officer
present when such bond is presented.
      (2)   No person shall be accepted as surety upon any penal bond unless he
or she shall acknowledge the bond before some official duly authorized by the
codified ordinances or by state law to administer an oath, and shall make oath
that he or she is the owner in fee of real estate situated in Harrison County
and worth the amount of the bond over and above his or her debts and
liabilities; but the officers hereinbefore named in this section are hereby
authorized and empowered to accept a deposit in cash of an amount, not less
than the minimum nor more than the maximum hereinbefore specified for a bond,
which, in the judgment of the officer accepting the deposit, will be sufficient
to cause the prisoner’s appearance upon the day required of him or her before
the Municipal Judge to await trial upon the charge against him or her. In the
event any person so released upon bond or such deposit shall fail to appear
before the Municipal Judge for trial at the appointed time, or, having
appeared, shall leave the court without awaiting trial, his or her bond shall
be forfeited thereby to the town, and if a cash deposit has been made to secure
his or her release, the sum so deposited shall be delivered to the Municipal
Judge and by him or her promptly turned into the town treasury to the credit of
the General Fund and accounted for by him or her in the same manner that fines
collected by him or her are accounted for; and in the event of the forfeiture
of a penal bond, the Treasurer shall forthwith take the steps necessary at law
for the collection thereof.
   (b)   No cash bond shall be accepted by any officer authorized to accept
such bond unless the prisoner and the officer authorized to accept it are
present at police headquarters. The money deposited as security for any
person’s appearance shall be deposited with the desk sergeant at police
headquarters, to be by him or her safely kept until the next regular session of
the Municipal Court, when it shall be turned over by the desk sergeant who
received it to the Judge of the Municipal Court, and by the Judge disposed of
as required by the bond and this and subsection(a) above.
   (c)   If any officer shall accept or approve any cash bond at any place or
in any other manner than is provided for and authorized by this article, such
unauthorized acceptance or approval shall constitute good cause for his or her
suspension or removal or the reprimand or fining of such officer after a
hearing on the charge by Council. In case of the arrest of any person upon a
charge of a felony, the bond for his or her release, if approved, shall only be
approved by the Municipal Judge, or the Judge of a court having jurisdiction to
try the prisoner for the felony alleged to have been committed by him or her.
   (d)   No practicing attorney, officer of the Municipal Court or member of
the Police Department shall be accepted as surety on any bond provided for in
this section.
§ 171.10 COURT COSTS.
   (a)   Cost. Every person within the town who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a misdemeanor before the Municipal Court shall pay the sum of $10,
which shall be deposited into the General Account of the town.
   (b)   (1)   Regional Jail and Correctional Facility authority fee. In
addition to the present court costs which may be lawfully imposed, an
additional cost shall be imposed in an amount of not less than $42 in each
proceeding; except that, such additional cost shall not be assessed for a
traffic offense that is not a moving violation or an offense for which the
ordinance does not provide a period of incarceration.
      (2)   Administration fee. Of this $42 imposed as an additional cost, $2
shall be an administrative cost to be retained by the town.
   (c)   Crime Victim’s Compensation Fund. Every person within the town who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor before the Municipal Court,
other than a traffic offense that is not a moving violation, shall pay the sum
of $8 as costs in the case, in addition to any other court costs that the court
is required by law to impose upon such convicted person. The Court, wherein
such additional costs are imposed, shall, on or before the tenth day of the
following month, transmit all such costs received under this article to the
West Virginia State Treasurer for deposit in the West Virginia State Treasury
to the credit of a special revenue fund to be known as the Crime Victim’s
Compensation Fund.
   (d)   Law Enforcement Training Fund. Every person within the town who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor before the Municipal Court,
other than a traffic offense that is not a moving violation, shall pay the sum
of $2 as costs in the case, in addition to any other court costs that the court
is required by law to impose upon such convicted person. The Court wherein such
additional costs are imposed shall, on or before the tenth day of the following
month, transmit all such costs received under this article to the West Virginia
State Treasurer for deposit to the credit of a special revenue account for the
funding of law enforcement training academies and programs.
   (e)   Community Corrections Act. Every person within the town who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor before the Municipal Court,
other than a traffic offense that is not a moving violation, shall pay the sum
of $10 as costs in the case, in addition to any other court costs that the
court is required by law to impose upon such convicted person. The Court
wherein such additional costs are imposed shall, on or before the tenth day of
the following month, transmit all such costs received under this article to the
West Virginia State Treasurer to be credited to the West Virginia Community
Corrections Fund.
   (f)   Fines. Any citation issued through Nutter Fort Municipal Court shall
have a fine imposed.
   (g)   Municipal Court technology/maintenance fee. The Municipal Judge shall
assess a mandatory $55 fee upon each and every defendant found guilty or
pleading guilty or pleading nolo contendere regarding a misdemeanor violation,
including traffic violations and moving violations. The town shall use the
money raised by this fee to update and maintain the Municipal Court’s
technology as needed.
(Ord. passed 9-24-1985; Ord. passed 7-14-1987; Ord. passed 6-23-1992; Ord.
passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-22-2022)
§ 171.11 PAYMENT OF COSTS AND FINES.
   (a)   Whenever a person is convicted in the Municipal Court of a violation
of the codified ordinances or other ordinance or any rule, regulation, notice
or order promulgated pursuant to authority thereof, and such person is
sentenced to pay a fine, and it shall appear to the court on its own motion or
on motion of the defendant that such defendant is unable to pay such fine
forthwith, the Court may order the defendant to pay such fine and any costs
which the defendant may be required to pay in installments or upon such other
terms and conditions or within such period of time as may enable the defendant
to pay such fine and costs.
   (b)   In determining whether a defendant is unable to pay a fine forthwith,
the Court may require such defendant to file a petition, under oath, with the
Court, upon a form provided by the Court, setting forth the financial condition
of the defendant.
   (c)   Such form shall be a questionnaire, and shall include, but shall not
be limited to: the name and residence of the defendant; his or her occupation,
if any; his or her family status and the number of persons dependent upon him
or her; his or her monthly income; whether or not his or her dependents are
employed and, if so, their approximate monthly income; his or her banking
accounts, if any; real estate owned by the defendant, or any interest he or she
may have in real estate; income produced therefrom; and independent income
accruing to the defendant; tangible and intangible personal property owned by
the defendant, or in which he or she may have an interest; and a statement
listing the approximate indebtedness of the defendant to other persons. Such
form shall also include a payment plan of the defendant, if the Court should
exercise its discretion in permitting the payment of such fine and costs in
installments or other conditions to be fixed by the Court. At the end of such
form, there shall be printed in boldface type, in a distinctive color the
following: “This statement is made under oath. Any false statement of a
material fact to any question contained herein shall constitute false swearing
and shall be an offense against this section. The maximum penalty is $100 fine
or 30 days in jail, or both.” A copy of the petition shall be retained by the
defendant.
   (d)   If the defendant is unable to read or write, the Court or the Clerk,
may assist the defendant in completing the petition and require him or her to
affix his or her mark thereto. The consequences of the making of a false
statement shall be explained to such defendant.
   (e)   If a defendant is sentenced to pay a fine and payment of the fine or
fine and costs is ordered to be made on an installment basis or in other
conditions under the provisions of subsection (a) above, and if the defendant
is also placed on probation or imposition of the execution of sentence is
suspended, the Court may make payment of the fine a condition of probation or
suspension of sentence.
   (f)   If a defendant is permitted to pay a fine or fines and costs on an
installment basis, or under such other conditions as the Court shall fix under
the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Court may require as a condition
that the defendant be of peace and good behavior until the fine and costs are
paid.
   (g)   When any person sentenced to pay a fine defaults in the payment of any
such fine or of any installment thereof, the Court may issue a summons for such
person to appear before the Court for a hearing on the question of whether such
person’s failure to pay the fine or any installment was attributable to
intentional refusal to comply with the prior order of the Court or to a lack of
a good faith effort to comply therewith. The Court may, after hearing, order
that the person in default be allowed additional time for payment, may reduce
or remit the amount of the fine or the unpaid portion thereof in whole or in
part, or upon a finding that the default was intentional or due to the lack of
a good faith effort to comply with the prior order of the Court, may order such
person confined for such period up to 30 days as the Court in its discretion
shall determine.
   (h)   Post-dated checks prohibited. The Town of Nutter Fort will no longer
accept a post-dated check for payment of town services, fees, charges, fines
and penalties effective October 12, 2021.
(Res. 2021-05, passed - - )
PART THREE: TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER ONE: ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE 301: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
301.01   Meaning of words and phrases
   
301.02   Authorized emergency vehicle
   
301.03   Bicycle
   
301.04   Bus
   
301.05   Business district
   
301.06   Controlled-access highway
   
301.07   Crosswalk
   
301.08   Driver
   
301.09   Explosives
   
301.10   Flammable liquid
   
301.11   Gross weight
   
301.12   Intersection
   
301.13   Laned roadway
   
301.14   Moped
   
301.15   Motorcycle
   
301.16   Motor-driven cycle
   
301.17   Motor vehicle
   
301.18   Owner
   
301.19   Park
   
301.20   Parking area
   
301.21   Pedestrian
   
301.22   Person
   
301.23   Pole trailer
   
301.24   Police officer
   
301.25   Private road or driveway; private property
   
301.26   Railroad
   
301.27   Railroad sign or signal
   
301.28   Railroad train
   
301.29   Residence district
   
301.30   Residential street
   
301.31   Right-of-way
   
301.32   Roadway
   
301.33   Safety zone
   
301.34   School bus
   
301.35   School grounds
   
301.36   Semitrailer
   
301.37   Sidewalk
   
301.38   Stop
   
301.39   Stop, stopping or standing
   
301.40   Street or highway; alley
   
301.41   Through street or through highway
   
301.42   Traffic
   
301.43   Traffic-control devices
   
301.44   Traffic-control signal
   
301.45   Trailer
   
301.46   Truck
   
301.47   Vehicle
Cross References
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Speed race defined, see Part Three, §
335.04
§ 301.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   The following words and phrases when used in this Traffic Code shall, for
the purpose of this Traffic Code, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-1)
§ 301.02 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE means vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, state, county or
municipal agency and such privately-owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers,
flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles,
service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow
removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of
members of ambulance services and Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered
rescue squads and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by the agency
responsible for the operation and control of these persons or organizations.
CLASS A VEHICLES are as defined by W.Va. Code § 17A-10-1. AGENCY AUTHORIZATION
AND EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT are defined in W.Va. Code § 17C-15-26. Agencies
responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle permits may
promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of permits for
emergency vehicles.
(W.Va. Code 17C-1-6)
§ 301.03 BICYCLE.
   BICYCLE means every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-8)
§ 301.04 BUS.
   BUS means every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven
passengers and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle,
other than a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-13)
§ 301.05 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT means the territory contiguous to and including a street
or highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings, which occupy
at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both
sides of the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-45)
§ 301.06 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY means every highway, street or roadway in respect
to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-41)
§ 301.07 CROSSWALK.
   CROSSWALK includes:
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-43)
§ 301.08 DRIVER.
   DRIVER means every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-31)
§ 301.09 EXPLOSIVES.
   EXPLOSIVES means any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is
commonly used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which
contains any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such
proportions, quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by
concussion, by percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or
mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the
resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on
contiguous objects or of destroying life or limb.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-24)
§ 301.10 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID means any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less,
as determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed-cup test device.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-25)
§ 301.11 GROSS WEIGHT.
   GROSS WEIGHT means the weight of a vehicle without load, plus the weight of
any load thereon.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-26)
§ 301.12 INTERSECTION.
   INTERSECTION includes:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by
an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the
event such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-42)
§ 301.13 LANED ROADWAY.
   LANED ROADWAY means a roadway which is divided into two or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-39)
§ 301.14 MOPED.
   MOPED means every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise
specified in this Traffic Code, which is equipped with two or three wheels,
foot pedals to permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source
providing a maximum of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used,
the maximum piston or rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters
regardless of the number of chambers in such power source. The power source
shall be capable of propelling the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to
exceed 30 mph on a level road surface and shall be equipped with a power drive
system that functions directly or automatically only, not requiring clutching
or shifting by the operator after the drive system is engaged.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-l-5a)
§ 301.15 MOTORCYCLE.
   MOTORCYCLE means every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of
the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-4)
§ 301.16 MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE means every motorcycle having a piston displacement of
more than 50 cubic centimeters, but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or
with not more than five brake horsepower.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-5)
§ 301.17 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   MOTOR VEHICLE means every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-3)
§ 301.18 OWNER.
   OWNER means a person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event
a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-32)
§ 301.19 PARK.
   PARK, when prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-54)
§ 301.20 PARKING AREA.
   PARKING AREA means lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-60)
§ 301.21 PEDESTRIAN.
   PEDESTRIAN means any person afoot.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-30)
§ 301.22 PERSON.
   PERSON means every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-29)
§ 301.23 POLE TRAILER.
   POLE TRAILER means every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn
by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-17)
§ 301.24 POLICE OFFICER.
   POLICE OFFICER means every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic
or to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-33)
§ 301.25 PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY means every way or place in private ownership
and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   (b)   PRIVATE PROPERTY means real estate in private ownership without regard
to the manner in which it is used.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-36)
§ 301.26 RAILROAD.
   RAILROAD means a carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-21)
§ 301.27 RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL means any sign, signal or device erected by
authority of a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give
notice of the presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-49)
§ 301.28 RAILROAD TRAIN.
   RAILROAD TRAIN means a steam engine, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-22)
§ 301.29 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT means the territory contiguous to and including a street
or highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street
or highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-46)
§ 301.30 RESIDENTIAL STREET.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any
subdivision, development or other similar area used primarily for residential
purposes when any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in
such area for the purpose of vehicular travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-62)
§ 301.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY means the privilege of the immediate use of the street or
highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-51)
§ 301.32 ROADWAY.
   ROADWAY means that portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to
all such roadways collectively.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-37)
§ 301.33 SAFETY ZONE.
   SAFETY ZONE means the area or space officially set apart within a roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-44)
§ 301.34 SCHOOL BUS.
   SCHOOL BUS means every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental
agency and operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or
privately owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of
children to or from school.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-7)
§ 301.35 SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   SCHOOL GROUNDS includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation or athletic events while
attending school.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-55)
§ 301.36 SEMITRAILER.
   SEMITRAILER means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-16)
§ 301.37 SIDEWALK.
   SIDEWALK means that portion of a street or highway between the curb lines,
or the lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for
the use of pedestrians.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-38)
§ 301.38 STOP.
   STOP, when required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-52)
§ 301.39 STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING, when prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-53)
§ 301.40 STREET OR HIGHWAY; ALLEY.
   (a)   STREET or HIGHWAY means the entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
   (b)   ALLEY means a street or highway intended to provide access to the rear
or side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the
purpose of through vehicular traffic.
§ 301.41 THROUGH STREET OR THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY means every street or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and
when stop signs are erected as provided in this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-40)
§ 301.42 TRAFFIC.
   TRAFFIC means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars
and other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or
highway for purposes of travel.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-50)
§ 301.43 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE means any sign, signal, marking and device not
inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-47)
§ 301.44 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL means any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-48)
§ 301.45 TRAILER.
   TRAILER means every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-15)
§ 301.46 TRUCK.
   TRUCK means every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for
the transportation of property.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-12)
§ 301.47 VEHICLE.
   VEHICLE means every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-1-2)
ARTICLE 303: ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING AND PENALTY
Section
   
303.01   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
303.02   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
303.03   Obedience to police officers; fleeing   
   
303.04   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
303.05   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
303.06   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
303.07   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
 
   
303.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Disposition of abandoned vehicles, see W.Va. Code §§ 17-24A-5 et seq.
   Power of local authorities, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Uniform application of West Virginia traffic law, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-7
§ 303.01 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of the municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the municipality.
   (b)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (c)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
   (d)    The Town Council adopts W.Va. Code Ch. 17, thereby establishing W.Va.
Code Ch. 17 as part of the codified ordinances of the Town of Nutter Fort,
dealing with the following laws, rules and regulations:
      (1)   Ch. 17, Roads and Highways;
      (2)   Ch. 17A, Motor Vehicle Administration, Registration, Certificate of
Title and Anti-Theft Provisions;
      (3)   Ch. 17B, Motor Vehicle Driver’s Licences;
      (4)   Ch. 17C, Traffic Regulation and Laws of the Road;
      (5)   Ch. 17D, Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Law; and
      (6)   Ch. 17E, Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act.
(Ord. passed 11-28-1995)
§ 303.02 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways,
except:
   (a)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; and
   (b)   The provisions of this Traffic Code, except Art. 347 of this part
shall apply upon streets and highways, as defined in §
351.06 of this part.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-1)
§ 303.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of any police officer or special officer invested by law
with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or special officer after receiving a visible or audible signal
from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
§ 303.04 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state or any county,
municipality, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this Traffic Code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (b)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Traffic
Code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway, but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W.Va Code § 17C-2-4)
§ 303.05 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (b)    The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (c)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized hereby, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle; except that, an authorized
emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or
display a warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (d)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-5)
§ 303.06 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Traffic Code, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code, except which, by their very nature, can have
no application.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-2-6)
§ 303.07 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (a)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property as provided in W.Va. Code Art. 17-24A-3;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code or W.Va. Code Art. 17C-
15, whereby its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to
life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of an accident or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked; and
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
   (b)   Any vehicle removed under authority of this subsection (b) shall be
disposed of as provided under W.Va. Code Art. 17-24. Any other vehicle removed
under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage and the Police
Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner of the fact of
such removal and impounding, reasons therefor and the place of storage. Any
person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the Police
Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or right
to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner or
operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations.
The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
§ 303.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code or any rule or
regulation lawfully made pursuant thereto, for which no penalty is otherwise
provided, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
CHAPTER THREE: STREETS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
ARTICLE 311: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
Section
   
311.01   Placing injurious material
   
311.02   Play streets
   
311.03   Toy vehicles on streets
   
311.04   Parades and assemblages in street
 
   
311.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to prohibit littering in streets, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(3)
   Authority to regulate processions or assemblages, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8
(a)(3)
   Dropping, leaking loads, see Part Three, §
347.04
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 311.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure
any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (b)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-11)
   (d)   No person shall throw, place or deposit upon any street or highway any
material, article or substance which injures or damages, or is likely to injure
or damage, the street or highway.
§ 311.02 PLAY STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of engaging
in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways specifically
set aside for such purposes.
   (b)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
§ 311.03 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (a)   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
   (b)   Any person under the age of 16 that operates, rides, plays with or
wears any of the following toy vehicles commonly called skateboards, roller
blades, roller skates, scooters, sleds and the like must wear a protective
helmet while doing so in the municipality.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 311.04 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (a)   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (b)   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
   (c)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
      (1)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail; and/or
      (6)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (d)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
§ 311.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
 
ARTICLE 313: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
313.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
313.02   Obedience to traffic-control instructions at street construction
   
313.03   Traffic-control signal terms and lights
   
313.04   Pedestrian control signals
   
313.05   Flashing traffic signals
   
313.06   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
313.07   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic-control devices
   
313.08   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
313.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to place traffic-control devices, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)(2),
17C-3-3
   Local regulations requiring traffic-control devices, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-
8(c)
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8
(b), 17C-3-2
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   “Traffic-control devices” defined, see Part Three, §
301.43
   “Traffic-control signal” defined, see Part Three, §
301.44
§ 313.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
   (b)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4)
§ 313.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic-control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic-control devices, act as
flaggers or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4a)
§ 313.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (a)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
343.02 of this part, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless
a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent
crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (b)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (c)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone, except as provided in subsections (c)(2) and (c)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn, but such vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection; except that, Council
may, by ordinance, prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal
at any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected
at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk
and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal at such
intersection; except that, Council may, by ordinance, prohibit any such left
turn against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance shall
be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (d)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (e)   Applicability. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-5)
§ 313.04 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (a)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (b)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-6)
§ 313.05 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (a)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (b)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-7)
§ 313.06 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   (1)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain or display
upon or in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic-control
device or traffic-control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any street or highway any traffic-control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
      (2)   This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (b)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-8)
§ 313.07 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-9)
§ 313.08 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (a)   At each and every location where street or highway construction work
is to be conducted a sign shall be posted at least 1,000 feet from the
construction site, or as close to 1,000 feet from the construction site as is
practicable given the location of the site when workers are present, notifying
all motorists as to the speed limit and displaying the words “construction
work”.
   (b)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this Traffic Code for such violation.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-3-4b)
§ 313.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
CHAPTER FIVE: VEHICULAR OPERATION
ARTICLE 331: ACCIDENTS
Section
   
331.01   Accidents involving death or personal injuries
   
331.02   Accidents involving damage to vehicle
   
331.03   Duty to give information and render aid
   
331.04   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
331.05   Collision with fixtures upon a street or highway
   
331.06   Immediate reports of accidents
   
331.07   When driver unable to report
   
331.08   Garage keeper to report damaged vehicles
 
   
331.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to require local accident report, see W.Va. Code § 17C-4-15
   Impounding wrecked vehicles, see Part Three, §
303.07
   Removal of glass and the like from highway, see Part Three, §
311.01
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 331.01 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person shall immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such
accident or as close thereto as possible, but shall then forthwith return to
and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until he or she
has fulfilled the requirements of §
331.03 of this article. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-1)
§ 331.02 ACCIDENTS INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage
to a vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop
such vehicle at the scene of such accident or as close thereto as possible, but
shall forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such
accident until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
331.03 of this article. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing
traffic more than is necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with such
requirements under such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-2)
§ 331.03 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or attended by any
person shall give his or her name, address and the registration number of the
vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit
his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the person struck or the driver
or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided with and shall render
to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance, including the
carrying, or the making arrangements for the carrying of such person to a
physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is
apparent that such treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by
the injured person.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-3)
§ 331.04 COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-4)
§ 331.05 COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON A STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage
to fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license and
shall make report of such accident when and as required.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-5)
§ 331.06 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or damage to fixtures shall immediately by the quickest
means of communication, whether oral or written, give notice of such accident
to the Police Department.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-6)
§ 331.07 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   (a)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate report of an accident as required in §
331.06 of this article and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the
time of the accident capable of making a report, such occupant shall make or
cause to be made such report not made by the driver.
   (b)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident as required by law and such driver is not the owner of the
vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall within
five days after learning of the accident make such report not made by the
driver.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-8)
§ 331.08 GARAGE KEEPER TO REPORT DAMAGED VEHICLES.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved in a serious
accident or struck by any bullet shall report to the Police Department
immediately after such motor vehicle is received, giving the engine number and
the name and address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-4-12)
§ 331.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 333: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; RECKLESS DRIVING
Section
   
333.01   Driving under the influence
   
333.02   Reckless and distracted driving
   
333.03   Hazardous driving
 
   
333.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to prohibit driving under the influence, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5
(21)
   Compliance with state law, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5-11a
   Implied consent, see W.Va. Code § 17C-5A
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 333.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (a)   Any person who:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in the municipality while:
         (a)   He or she is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   He or she is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   He or she is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   He or she is under the combined influence of alcohol and any
controlled substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   He or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of
0.10% or more, by weight.
      (2)   When so driving does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform
any duty imposed by law in the driving of such vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes the death of any person within one year next following such
act or failure, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for
not less than 90 days, nor more than one year, and shall be fined not less than
$500, nor more than $1,000.
   (b)   Any person who:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in the municipality while:
         (a)   He or she is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   He or she is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   He or she is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   He or she is under the combined influence of alcohol and any
controlled substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   He or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of
0.10% or more, by weight.
      (2)   When so driving does any act forbidden by law or fails to perform
any duty imposed by law in the driving of such vehicle, which act or failure
proximately causes bodily injury to any person other than himself or herself,
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for not less than one
day, nor more than one year, which jail term shall include actual confinement
of not less than 24 hours and shall be fined not less than $200, nor more than
$1,000.
   (c)   Any person who:
      (1)   Drives a vehicle in the municipality while:
         (a)   He or she is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   He or she is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   He or she is under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   He or she is under the combined influence of alcohol and any
controlled substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   He or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of
0.10% or more, by weight.
      (2)   Is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for not
less than one day, nor more than six months, which jail term shall include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$100, nor more than $500.
   (d)   Any person who, being a habitual user of narcotic drugs or amphetamine
or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle in the municipality, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for not less than one day, nor more
than six months, which jail term shall include actual confinement of not less
than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500.
   (e)   Any person who:
      (1)   Knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in the
municipality by any other person who is:
         (a)   Under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Under the influence of any other drug;
         (d)   Under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.10% or
more, by weight.
      (2)   Is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be confined in jail for not
more than six months and shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500.
   (f)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
the municipality by any other person who is an habitual user of narcotic drugs
or amphetamine or any derivative thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
be confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be fined not less
than $100, nor more than $500.
   (g)   (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle in the
municipality while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood
of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.10%, by weight, shall, for a first
offense under this subsection (g), be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
fined not less than $25, nor more than $100. For a second or subsequent offense
under this subsection (g), such person is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
confined in jail for 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than $100, nor more
than $500. A person who is charged with a first offense under the provisions of
this section may move for a continuance of the proceedings from time to time to
allow the person to participate in the vehicle alcohol test and lock program as
provided for in W.Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Upon successful completion of the
program, the court shall dismiss the charge against the person and expunge the
person’s record as it relates to the alleged offense. In the event the person
fails to successfully complete the program, the court shall proceed to an
adjudication of the alleged offense. A motion for a continuance under this
section shall not be construed as an admission or be used as evidence.
      (2)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the provisions
of subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) above may not also be charged
with an offense under this subsection (g) arising out of the same transaction
or occurrence.
   (h)   A person violating any provision of subsections (a), (b), (c), (d) (e)
or (f) above shall, for the second offense under this section, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be confined in jail for a period of not less than six
months, nor more than one year, and the court may, in its discretion, impose a
fine of not less than $1,000, nor more than $3,000.
   (i)   A person violating any provision of subsections (a), (b), (c), (d),
(e) or (f) above shall, for the third or any subsequent offense under this
section, be guilty of a felony and charged under W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2.
   (j)   For purposes of subsections (h) and (i) above relating to second,
third and subsequent offenses, the following types of convictions shall be
regarded as convictions under this section:
      (1)   Any conviction under the provisions of subsections (a), (b), (c),
(d) or (e) above of the prior enactment of this section for an offense which
occurred on or after 9-1-1981, and prior to the effective date of this section;
      (2)   Any conviction under the provisions of subsection (a) above of the
prior enactment of this section for an offense which occurred within a period
of five years immediately preceding 9-1-1981;
      (3)   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of the state or any
other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in subsections (a),
(b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) above, which offense occurred after 6-10-1983; and
      (4)   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment or information
for a second or subsequent offense under this section, if the person has been
previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this section which is
alleged to have occurred within the applicable time periods for prior offenses,
notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final adjudication of the
charges for the alleged previous offense. In such case, the warrant or
indictment or information must set forth the date, location and particulars of
the previous offense or offenses. No person may be convicted of a second or
subsequent offense under this section unless the conviction for the previous
offense has become final.
   (k)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of subsections (a),
(b), (c) or (d) above, or any person permitted to drive as described under
subsections (e) or (f) above, is or has been legally entitled to use alcohol, a
controlled substance or a drug shall not constitute a defense against any
charge of violating subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) above.
   (l)   For purposes of this section, the term CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the
meaning ascribed to it in W.Va. Code Ch. 60A.
   (m)   The sentences provided herein upon conviction for a violation of this
section are mandatory and shall not be subject to suspension or probation;
provided that, the court may apply the provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 62-11A-1 et
seq., to a person sentenced or committed to a term of one year or less. An
order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Code
Art. 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to any period of
incarceration required by this section.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2)
   (n)   For purposes of this section, the phrase IN THIS MUNICIPALITY means
anywhere within the physical boundaries of the municipality, including, but not
limited to, publicly maintained streets and highways, and subdivision streets
or other areas not publicly maintained but nonetheless open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   (o)   When used in this section, the terms or phrases “driving under the
influence of intoxicating liquor,” “driving or operating a motor vehicle while
intoxicated,” “for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor
to drive any vehicle,” or any similar term or phrase shall be construed to mean
and be synonymous with the term or phrase “while under the influence of
alcohol...drives a vehicle”, as the latter term or phrase is used in this
section.
   (p)   A warrant or indictment which charges or alleges an offense,
prohibited by the provisions of this section, and which warrant or indictment
uses any of the terms or phrases set forth in subsection (o) above, shall not
thereby be fatally defective if such warrant or indictment otherwise informs
the person so accused of the charges against him or her.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-2a)
§ 333.02 RECKLESS AND DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property
of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and
public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.
   (b)   The provisions of subsection (a) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set
aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for exclusive
use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-5-3) (Res. passed 1-12-2010)
§ 333.03 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (c)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
§ 333.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 335: SPEED RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
335.01   Reserved
   
335.02   Slow speed
   
335.03   Special speed limitations
   
335.04   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
 
   
335.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to regulate speed, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-2-8, 17C-6-3
   Minimum speed regulations, see W.Va. Code § 17C-6-3(a)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Special speed limitations, see W.Va. Code §§ 17C-6-4 et seq.
   Use of radar, see W.Va. Code § 17C-6-7
§ 335.01 RESERVED.
§ 335.02 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a))
§ 335.03 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this Traffic Code, no
person shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped
with pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
      (1)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district;
      (3)   Forty mph on open country highway; and
      (4)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
   (c)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-5)
§ 335.04 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or timer or
in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on any
public street or highway in the municipality. For the purposes of this section,
SPEED RACE means:
   (a)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
   (b)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
   (c)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-6-8(a))
§ 335.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 337: DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
Section
   
337.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
337.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
337.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
337.04   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
337.05   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
337.06   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
337.07   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
337.08   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
337.09   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
337.10   Following too closely
   
337.11   Driving upon divided roadways
   
337.12   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
   
337.13   Prohibited turn
 
   
337.99   Penalty
Cross References
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to establish one-way streets, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(4)
§ 337.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (b)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-1)
§ 337.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-2)
§ 337.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left thereof at a
safe distance and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until
safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (b)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-3)
§ 337.04 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction;
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-4)
§ 337.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (b)   In every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-5)
§ 337.06 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (b)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-6)
§ 337.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-7)
§ 337.08 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (b)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c))
§ 337.09 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (a)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (b)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such
allocation.
   (c)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-9)
§ 337.10 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (b)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided that,
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone”;
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of the state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (c)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of the state.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-10)
§ 337.11 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-11)
§ 337.12 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-7-12)
§ 337.13 PROHIBITED TURN.
   All left turns from the southbound lane of Route 20 are prohibited from the
intersection of Route 20 and Route 98 south to a point beyond the Rite Aid
parking lot area. Violations shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in §
303.99 of this part.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1999)
§ 337.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 339: TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
Section
   
339.01   Conformity with provisions required
   
339.02   Right turns
   
339.03   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
339.04   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
339.05   Specified turns at intersections
   
339.06   “U” turns restricted
   
339.07   Starting vehicle
   
339.08   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping
   
339.09   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
339.10   Hand and arm signals
 
   
339.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to regulate the turning of vehicles, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)
(9)
   Authority to specify different courses for turns, see W.Va. Code § 17C-8-5
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 339.01 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-1)
§ 339.02 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-2)
§ 339.03 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-3)
§ 339.04 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-4)
§ 339.05 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers, buttons or
signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this article be traveled
by vehicles turning at an intersection; and, when markers, buttons or signs are
so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or signs.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-5)
§ 339.06 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (b)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are
erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
§ 339.07 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-7)
§ 339.08 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (a)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
339.02 to 339.05 of this article, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or
driveway or otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left
upon a roadway unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety. No person shall so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate
signal in the manner hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be
affected by such movement.
   (b)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (c)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-8)
§ 339.09 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device;
but, when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals
must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-9)
§ 339.10 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (a)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (b)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (c)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-8-10)
§ 339.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 341: RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
341.01   Right-of-way at intersections
   
341.02   Right-of-way when turning left
   
341.03   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
341.04   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
341.05   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
341.06   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
 
   
341.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to designate through streets and stop intersections, see W.Va.
Code §§ 17C-2-8(a)(6), 17C-12-5
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 341.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (b)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (c)   The right-of-way rules declared in subsections (a) and (b) above are
modified at through streets or highways and otherwise, as hereinafter stated in
this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-1)
§ 341.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of- way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this Traffic Code may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-2)
§ 341.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
343.05 of this part at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection
from such through streets or highways or which are approaching so closely on
such through street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard but the
driver having so yielded may proceed.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-3)
§ 341.04 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-4)
§ 341.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized hereby,
which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500
feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated as
an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible signal
by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear
of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-9-5)
§ 341.06 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or driveway,
alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed by the
following rules.
   (a)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof.
   (c)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction, approach
for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the
left-hand curb or edge of the roadway. It shall be the duty of the driver of
any vehicle entering a private road or driveway, alley or building to yield the
right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area
extending across any alleyway, private road, driveway or building.
§ 341.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 343: SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
Section
   
343.01   Driving across grade crossing
   
343.02   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
343.03   Reserved
   
343.04   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
343.05   Through streets and stop intersections
   
343.06   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
343.07   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
343.08   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
 
   
343.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to establish through streets and stop intersections, see W.Va.
Code § 17C-2-8(a)(6)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 343.01 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (a)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-1)
§ 343.02 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the State
Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
When such stop signs are erected, the driver of any vehicle shall stop within
50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the nearest rail of such railroad and
shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-2)
§ 343.03 RESERVED.
§ 343.04 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of ten or less mph or a vertical body or load clearance of less than one-
half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles or in any
event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of a roadway,
upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying
with this section.
   (b)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-2)
   (c)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet, nor
more than 50 feet, from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not
proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (d)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagger or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. If a flagger is provided by the railroad, movement
over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-4)
§ 343.05 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (b)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected on
the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (c)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (d)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic-control signal.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-5)
§ 343.06 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-6)
§ 343.07 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W.Va. Code § 17C-12-8 and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road
or driveway; provided that, the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of this
subsection shall be subject to the penalty provided for a violation of this
subsection (a); provided, however, that, such conviction shall not subject such
owner or lessee to further administrative or other penalties for such offense,
notwithstanding other provisions of the West Virginia Code or this Traffic Code
to the contrary.
   (b)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education, agency or
individual, shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-12-7)
§ 343.08 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
§ 343.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 345: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
345.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment
exceptions
   
345.02   Reserved
   
345.03   Measurement of distances and heights
   
345.04   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
345.05   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
345.06   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
345.07   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
345.08   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
345.09   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
345.10   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
345.11   Cowl, fender and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
345.12   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
345.13   Use of headlight beams
   
345.14   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
345.15   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
345.16   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
345.17   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
345.18   Reserved
   
345.19   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
345.20   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
345.21   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
   
345.22   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
   
345.23   Rear-view mirror
   
345.24   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
345.25   Tire equipment restrictions
   
345.26   Safety glass in motor vehicles
   
345.27   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
345.28   Television receiver in driver’s view prohibited
   
345.29   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles
and mopeds
   
345.30   Certification labels on mopeds
   
345.31   Child passenger safety device required
   
345.32   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
345.33   Alteration of motor vehicles; bumper height limits
   
345.34   Sun screening devices
   
345.35   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
 
   
345.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Bicycle equipment, see Part Three,
Art. 373
   Obscured light on vehicles in combination, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-13
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles, see W.Va. Code § 17C-15-39
§ 345.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT
EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle, or
combination of vehicles, which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this article, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this article, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required under this article.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this article.
   (c)   The provisions of this article with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors, except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor equipped
with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
345.12 of this article display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or
single-beam head lamps meeting the requirements of §
345.12 of this article.
§ 345.02 RESERVED.
§ 345.03 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
345.12 of this article in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a
straight, level, unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric
conditions unless a different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (b)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices, it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to
the level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a
load.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-3)
§ 345.04 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
   (b)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this article.
   (c)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches, nor less than 24 inches, to
be measured as set forth in §
345.03 of this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-4)
§ 345.05 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear; provided that, in the case of a train of vehicles, only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (b)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches, nor less than 20 inches, to be measured as set forth in §
345.03(b) of this article.
   (c)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-5)
§ 345.06 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified by the town, a red light or
lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and
rear. The red light or lantern required under this section shall be in addition
to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any time, there shall be
displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less
than 12 inches square and so hung that the entire area is visible to the driver
of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-14)
§ 345.07 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is sufficient light
to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street
or highway no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (b)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements: at least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped.
   (c)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-15)
§ 345.08 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred to
in §
345.01(c) of this article not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped
with lamps, shall, at the times specified by the town, be equipped with at
least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-16)
§ 345.09 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (a)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle, except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle, may be equipped with not to exceed one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle, nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp, but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this subsection (a).
   (b)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches, nor more
than 30 inches, above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
   (c)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to
exceed one auxiliary passing lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches, nor more than 42 inches, above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this article.
   (d)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to
exceed one auxiliary driving lamp mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches, nor more than 42 inches, above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-17)
§ 345.10 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and when required under this Traffic
Code shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may, but need not, be incorporated with a tail lamp; and
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (b)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (c)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned by the town.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-18)
§ 345.11 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (c)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two back-up lamps
either separately or in combination with other lamps, but any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
§ 345.12 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this article. The lamps used
to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-19)
   (b)   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary
driving lamp or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor
vehicles other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall be so
arranged that the driver may select at will between distributions of light
projected to different elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so
arranged that such selection can be made automatically, subject to the
following limitations.
      (1)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
      (2)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
      (3)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle or moped, registered in the state after 1-1-1952, which has multiple-beam
road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which shall be
lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head lamps is in
use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so designed
and located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare to the
driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-20)
§ 345.13 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified by the town, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a safe distance in
advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
   (a)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in §
345.12(b) of this article shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times
regardless of road contour and loading.
   (b)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this Traffic
Code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
345.12(a) of this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-21)
§ 345.14 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to 7-1-1952 in lieu of
multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations.
   (a)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of 25 feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (b)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-22)
§ 345.15 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type, but in either event
shall comply with the requirements and limitations as follows.
   (a)   Every such head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
mph and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated at a speed
of 25 or more mph.
   (b)   In the event the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped
with a multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps, the upper beam shall meet
the minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the limitations
set forth in §
345.12(a) of this article and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements
applicable to a lowermost distribution of light as set forth in §
345.12(b) of this article.
   (c)   In the event the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped
with a single-beam lamp or lamps such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when
the vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a
distance of 25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of
the lamp from which it comes.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-23)
§ 345.16 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified by the town
when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
345.12 or
345.14 of this article; provided that, at no time shall it be operated at a
speed in excess of 20 mph.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-24)
§ 345.17 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (a)   At all times specified by the town, at least two lighted lamps shall
be displayed, one on each side at the front of every motor vehicle other than a
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped, except when such vehicle is parked
subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (b)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps, as herein required,
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-25)
§ 345.18 RESERVED.
§ 345.19 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that, in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer hereinafter sold in
the state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped and any semitrailer
of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles,
motor-driven cycles and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking brakes adequate
to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under all conditions
of loading on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material. The parking
brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the foregoing
requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or by
equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power; provided that, failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that, when once applied, they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind. The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies,
brake shoe anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally
associated with the wheel brake assemblies maybe used for both the service
brakes and the parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and
the service brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that
a failure of any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (b)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                              Feet to Stop from 20 mph Deceleration in Feet per
                                                       Second
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on all 30                       14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes on 40                       10.7
all wheels
 
   (c)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-31)
§ 345.20 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has disapproved
the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-32)
§ 345.21 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his or her horn, but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (c)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle be
equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it cannot
be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal. Any authorized emergency
vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet
and of a type approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles, but such siren
shall not be used except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law; in which such latter events, the driver of such vehicle shall sound such
siren when reasonably necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the
approach thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-33)
§ 345.22 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise. Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway.
   (b)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-34)
§ 345.23 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-35)
§ 345.24 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
non-transparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the street
or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (b)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (c)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-36)
§ 345.25 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (b)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (c)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire; except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided that, in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a street or highway,
other than school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are
operational with a recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square
inch.
   (d)   No studded tires or chains shall be sold or used within the
municipality which do not meet the specifications established by the rules and
regulations which the Commissioner of Highways shall promulgate.
   (e)   Council may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the street or highway of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a
highway would otherwise be prohibited under this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-37)
§ 345.26 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   On and after 7-1-1951, no person shall operate any motor vehicle as
specified herein, nor shall any motor vehicle, as specified herein, be
registered thereafter unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glass of a
type approved by the Commissioner of Highways wherever glass is used in doors,
windows and windshields. The foregoing provisions shall apply to all passenger-
type motor vehicles, including passenger buses and school buses, but in respect
to trucks, including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glass shall
apply to all glass used in doors, windows and windshields in the drivers’
compartments of such vehicles.
   (b)   The term SAFETY GLASS shall mean any product composed of glass, so
manufactured, fabricated or treated as substantially to prevent shattering and
flying of the glass when struck or broken, or such other or similar product as
may be approved by the Commissioner.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-38)
§ 345.27 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (a)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (b)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-41)
§ 345.28 TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW PROHIBITED.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway in the
municipality when equipped with a television receiver unless such receiver is
so placed that the screen or picture tube of such receiver is visible only in
the rear seat of such motor vehicle and not in view of the operator of such
motor vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-I5-42)
§ 345.29 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES
AND MOPEDS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he is wearing securely fastened on his head by either a
neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows, resist
penetration and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (b)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses), or eye goggles or face shield that complies with
the performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (c)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (d)   (1)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped
shall ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent
operator’s seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other
person, nor shall any other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is
designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
behind the operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for
two persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of
the operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by
the passenger or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall
ride sidesaddle on a seat.
      (2)   An operator may carry as many passengers as there are seats and
footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may be carried
in a factory produced side car; provided that, there is one passenger per seat.
      (3)   Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (e)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars and adjusted so that the operator
shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic behind him or her
for a distance of at least 200 feet.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-44)
§ 345.30 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in the municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (a)   Name of manufacturer;
   (b)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (c)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (d)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (e)   Vehicle identification number;
   (f)   Classification type; and
   (g)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-45)
§ 345.31 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van or pickup truck other than one operated for hire,
shall, while such motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway of the municipality, provide for the protection of such child by
properly placing, maintaining and securing such child in a child passenger
safety device system meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards;
provided that, if such child is under the age of eight years and at least four
feet nine inches tall, a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the
requirements of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $10, nor
more than $20.
   (c)   A violation of this section shall not be deemed by virtue of such
violation to constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or
comparative negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (d)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver shall not be considered
as violating this section.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-46) (Ord. passed 4-24-2007)
§ 345.32 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W.Va.
Code Art. 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-16-9)
§ 345.33 ALTERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; BUMPER HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (a)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in the state if it has been
modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that its
bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper
bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits specified
herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and rear bumper
height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or
less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31 inches. In the
absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been altered or
modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail. If
a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least three inches in
vertical width, centered on the centerline of the motor vehicle and not less
than the width of the wheel track distance. The provisions of this subsection
(a) do not apply to motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess
of 10,000 pounds. For the purpose of this subsection (a), the term GROSS
VEHICLE WEIGHT RATINGS means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings
established for that vehicle.
   (b)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle frame
shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided that, the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame. No vehicle shall be modified to
cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose
the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact
with the body under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system
may be disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system.
Modification of the front end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly
prohibited.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy
duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (d)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits the operation on a public
street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system
if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (e)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of the municipality.
   (f)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in subsection (h) below.
   (g)   Nothing contained in this section shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in subsection
(h) below.
   (h)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle make and model but
within the allowable limits of subsection (a) above or any motor vehicle which
has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that vehicle make
and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to vehicle frame,
but within the allowable limits of subsection (b) above may be operated upon a
public street or highway in the municipality, subject to inspection under W.Va.
Code § 17C-15-48; provided that, any motor vehicle which has been altered from
the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the bumper height for that vehicle
make and model within the allowable limits of subsection (a) above shall be
exempt from the inspection requirements hereunder and may be operated upon a
public street or highway in the municipality subject to provisions of W.Va.
Code Ch. 17C-16. Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on accident
report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the accident.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-48)
§ 345.34 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (a)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section.
   (b)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be non- reflective and may not be red, yellow or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (c)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a non-reflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (d)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the Division of Public Safety and Division of Motor
Vehicles that a sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the
reflectivity and transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (e)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (f)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in the state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in the state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (g)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (h)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed either on
a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      NON-REFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather
than to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
§ 345.35 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (a)   A person shall not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street or
highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is
restrained by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards. For the purposes of this section, PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor
vehicle which is designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including
the driver; except that, such term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer or
any motor vehicle which is not required on the date of the enactment of this
section under a federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a
belt system. The provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger
vehicles manufactured after 1-1-1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (b)   The required use of safety belts as provided herein does not apply to
a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States Postal
Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or operator
with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would prevent
appropriate restraint in such safety belt if the condition is duly certified by
a physician who shall state the nature of the disability as well as the reason
such restraint is inappropriate.
   (c)   (1)   A violation of this section is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided that, the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an
in camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a
safety belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of. Upon such a
finding by the court, the court may then, in a jury trial, by special
interrogatory to the jury, determine:
         (a)   The injured party failed to wear a safety belt; and
         (b)   The failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure to
mitigate damages.
      (2)   The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery for
medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt shall not be presented to the jury. In all cases, the actual
computation of the dollar amount reduction shall be determined by the court.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, no
points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (e)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to abrogate or
alter the provisions of §
345.31 of this article, relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety
devices.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-15-49)
   (f)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined
not more than $25. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a
violation of this section. Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished
only as a secondary action when a driver of a passenger vehicle has been
detained for probable cause of violating another section of this code.
§ 345.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 347: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
   
347.01   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
347.02   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
347.03   Maximum height, width and length
   
347.04   Loads dropping or leaking
   
347.05   Towing requirements
   
347.06   Oil delivery vehicles
   
347.07   Cost assessment of street damage
 
   
347.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to designate weight limits on local streets, see W.Va. Code § 17C-
2-8(a)(7)
   Authority to permit oversized buses, see W.Va. Code § 17C-17-2(b)
   Red light or flag on extended load, see Part Three, §
345.06
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Transporting explosives, see Part Three, §
345.27
§ 347.01 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (a)   Use of state route.
      (1)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in W.Va. Code Art. 17C-17 upon any state route within the municipality, except
pursuant to special written permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways, or
upon any local truck route. Every such permit shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in subsection (c) below.
   (b)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
347.03 of this article or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any
street in the municipality other than a state route, except those local streets
designated as a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs,
and except when such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go
to or from the usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other
legitimate business or act other than passage through the municipality.
Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated
truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that
required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (c)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in subsection (a) above.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief, in his or
her discretion, deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety. The Police Chief
may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate for
any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
303.99 of this part.
   (d)   Returning streets to prior condition. Any person or persons or
companies or corporation engaged in hauling over the streets or roadways shall
be responsible for returning the streets or roadways to the condition they were
in prior to the time the hauling began.
(Ord. passed 6-13-1995)
§ 347.02 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway with
any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the left
side of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-3)
§ 347.03 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT AND LENGTH.
   (a)   A vehicle including any load thereon shall not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to the municipality for any
damage to traffic-control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (b)   A motor vehicle including any load thereon shall not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided, a combination of vehicles coupled
together shall not consist of more than two units, and no such combination of
vehicles including any load thereon shall have an overall length, inclusive of
front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55 feet, except as provided in W.Va. Code
§ 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise provided in respect to the use of a pole
trailer as authorized in W.Va. Code § 17C-17-5; provided that, the limitation
that a combination of vehicles coupled together shall not consist of more than
two units shall not apply to a combination of vehicles coupled together by a
saddle mount device used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service
when no more than three saddle mounts are used; provided, however, that,
equipment used in such combination meets the requirements of the safety
regulations of the United States Department of Transportation and shall not
exceed an overall length of more than 65 feet.
   (d)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semitrailer combinations and
truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations operating on the national system
of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying federal-aid
primary system highways so designated by the United States Secretary of
Transportation, and those highways providing reasonable access to and from
terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest, and points of loading
and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways, and further, as
to other highways so designated by the West Virginia Commissioner of Highways,
shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semitrailer unit operating in a
truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet in length,
except where semi-trailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37 feet
between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the
semitrailer, such semitrailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semitrailer or trailer operating in a
truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination shall not exceed 28.5 feet in
length and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the
truck tractor; provided that, nothing herein contained shall impose an overall
length limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (e)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon shall not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W.Va. Code
Art. 17C-17; provided that, any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a
minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (f)   Motor buses with a total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety
equipment authorized by the United States Department of Transportation may
operate on any street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-2)
§ 347.04 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (a)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom; except that, sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (b)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-6)
   (c)   No person shall carry or convey or cause to be carried or conveyed in
any vehicle any earth, sand, gravel, manure, broken stone, dirt, ashes, paper
or other rubbish, or any fluid or offensive articles or matter, or any articles
whatsoever, so that any part thereof shall or may be scattered, dropped, let
fall, blown or spilled therefrom; and, if any such contents are spilled or
blown from any vehicle, it shall be the duty of the owner, driver or person in
charge thereof to pick up or clean up all of the articles so having fallen,
spilled, blown or dropped from such vehicle; and all vehicles conveying foul,
dusty or offensive matter of any sort shall have tight bodies and be closely
and securely covered so as to prevent the contents from being dropped while
being removed, and so as to limit as much as practicable the escape of odors.
§ 347.05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other, except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (b)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-17-7)
§ 347.06 OIL DELIVERY VEHICLES.
   All oil delivery vehicles shall have securely fastened under the taps or
faucets thereunto attached an absolutely oil- or water-tight, zinc-lined box or
tray, and in filling any tank or other vessel from such taps or faucets any
drip or overflow shall flow into such box or tray, and in removing any vessel
over any pavement no drip or overflow shall be permitted to fall upon such
pavement and no receptacle for holding oil shall be placed on the asphalt
pavement.
§ 347.07 COST ASSESSMENT OF STREET DAMAGE.
   Whenever the owner or occupant of any real property within the town causes,
by his or her activities, or those of his or her agent, any street to fall into
a state of disrepair, it shall be the duty of Council to cause the street to be
paved, repaved, repaired or constructed upon reasonable terms and for
reasonable cost. Council shall cause an itemized statement of the expense
incurred to be entered in the minutes of Council; and Council shall assess the
costs of such expense against the owner or occupant who shall have been the
cause of the damage; and shall certify the assessment to the Recorder for
collection. The town may, at its election, sue such owner or occupant who
caused the damage or enforce a lien placed against the real property of the
party which caused the damage.
(Ord. passed 4-27-1999)
§ 347.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 349: MISCELLANEOUS RULES
Section
   
349.01   Unattended motor vehicle
   
349.02   Backing a vehicle
   
349.03   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
349.04   Passengers in seat with operator
   
349.05   Passengers on running board
   
349.06   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
349.07   Driving over fire hose
   
349.08   Right-of-way of funeral or other procession
   
349.09   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
349.10   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
349.11   Unauthorized riding or jumping onto vehicles
   
349.12   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises; stereos
   
349.13   Injuring or tampering with vehicle
   
349.14   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn or curb
   
349.15   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic-control devices
   
349.16   Coasting prohibited
   
349.17   Driving through safety zone
   
349.18   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
349.19   Obstruction of traffic
   
349.20   Vehicle security
 
   
349.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Obedience to traffic-control devices, see Part Three, §
313.01
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 349.01 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the key and effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing upon any
grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the street or highway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-1)
§ 349.02 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-2)
§ 349.03 DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-4)
§ 349.04 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons including the operator shall ride or be permitted
by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor vehicle
while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways of the
municipality; provided, however, that, the limitation of this section shall not
apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the
occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-5)
§ 349.05 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride, nor shall the operator permit any passenger to
ride, on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being
operated on the streets or highways of the municipality.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-6)
§ 349.06 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business may not follow
any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm or other
emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm or other emergency.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-9)
§ 349.07 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-10)
§ 349.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of
a pennant or other identifying insignia. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police
officers.
§ 349.09 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
§ 349.10 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
§ 349.11 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING OR JUMPING ONTO VEHICLES.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
§ 349.12 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; STEREOS
   (a)   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no
person shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a
manner that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped
position that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise
unusual to its normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or
leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
   (b)   No person shall operate a car radio, stereo, tape player or other
device of that nature in such a manner that is clearly audible within 75 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-8-1991)
§ 349.13 INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
   (b)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-8-6)
§ 349.14 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN OR CURB.
   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (b)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 349.15 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic-control device.
   (c)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property, as
provided herein, without using the service of such property, stopping the
engine or both.
§ 349.16 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
§ 349.17 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
§ 349.18 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or any part
thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
§ 349.19 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand or park any motor vehicle on any street
or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free flow of
motor vehicle traffic, except in compliance with a lawful order of a police
officer or in compliance with a traffic-control sign, signal or marking.
§ 349.20 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W.Va. Code Art. 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such article unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 17D-2A
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
§ 349.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 351: LICENSING
Section
   
351.01   Registration, certificate of title required
   
351.02   Registration card
   
351.03   Display of registration plates
   
351.04   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
351.05   Improper use of registration card, plate or permit
   
351.06   Operator or chauffeur license required
   
351.07   Persons exempt from license
   
351.08   Display of license
   
351.09   Reserved
   
351.10   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
351.11   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
 
   
351.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Illumination of license plate, see Part Three, §
345.05(c)
   Impounding unlicensed vehicle, see Part Three, §
303.07
§ 351.01 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W.Va. Code Ch. 17-A, which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided that, in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further that, he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-3-1)
§ 351.02 REGISTRATION CARD.
   (a)   Every owner upon receipt of a registration card shall write his or her
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided.
   (b)   Every such registration card shall at all times be carried in the
vehicle to which it refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in
control of such vehicle who shall display the same upon demand of a police
officer or any officer or employee of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-3-13)
§ 351.03 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (a)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof; except that, on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (b)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-3-15)
§ 351.04 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (a)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this Traffic Code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year, except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W.Va. Code Ch. 17-A.
   (b)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department whichever is earlier; provided that, no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of the
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the Department of Public
Safety of the loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-9-2)
§ 351.05 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17A-9-3)
§ 351.06 OPERATOR OR CHAUFFEUR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall
drive any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon
any subdivision street, as used in state statutes, when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid driver’s license under the provisions of the West Virginia Code for the
type or class of vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the
West Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in
the West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be
required to obtain any other license to exercise such privilege by any county,
municipality or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (b)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in the municipality or upon any
subdivision street, as used in W.Va. Code Art. 8-24 when the use of such
subdivision street is generally used by the public unless the person has a
valid motorcycle license or a valid license which has been endorsed under W.Va.
Code § 17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation or has a valid motorcycle instruction
permit.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-2-1)
§ 351.07 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
351.06 of this article:
   (a)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (b)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to him or her or her
in his or her home state or country may operate a motor vehicle in the
municipality only as an operator for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one
calendar year;
   (c)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in his or her
immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to him or her in his or
her home state or country and who is employed in the state, or owns, maintains
or operates a place or places of business in the state, or engages in any
trade, profession or occupation in the state, in addition to the driving
privileges extended under subsection (b) above, may operate a motor vehicle in
the municipality only as an operator in traveling to and from his place or
places of employment, place or places of business or place or places at which
he or she engages in such trade, profession or occupation and in the discharge
of the duties of his or her employment, business, trade, profession or
occupation if such duties are such that if performed by a resident of the State
of West Virginia over the age of 18 years such resident would not be required
to obtain a Class A, B, C or D driver’s license;
   (d)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to him or
her in his or her home state or country may operate a motor vehicle in the
municipality either as a commercial operator subject to the age limits
applicable to commercial operators in the state, or as an operator subject to
the limitations imposed on non-resident operators in subsections (b) and (c)
above; and
   (e)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in an
accredited school, college or university in the state, who is at least 16 years
of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s license
issued to him or her in his or her home state, notwithstanding the limitations
of subsections (b) and (c) above may operate a motor vehicle in the
municipality only as an operator; provided that, the state of which he or she
is a resident extends the same privileges to residents of the state. This
exemption shall be cancelled immediately when such student is graduated from
school, college or university or is expelled or ceases to be a student.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-2-2)
§ 351.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles. However,
no person charged with violating this section shall be convicted if such person
produces in court or the office of the arresting officer a driver’s license
theretofore issued to such person and valid at the time of such person’s
arrest.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-2-9)
§ 351.09 RESERVED.
§ 351.10 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of the
municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been lawfully
suspended or revoked.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-4-3)
§ 351.11 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
(W.Va. Code § 17B-4-4)
§ 351.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 353: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
   
353.01   Definitions
   
353.02   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
353.03   Employer responsibilities
   
353.04   Commercial driver’s license required
   
353.05   Reserved
   
353.06   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
 
   
353.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Commercial vehicles, see Part Three,
Art. 347
   Driver’s licensing, see Part Three, Art.
351
   Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, see W.Va. Code Art. 17E-1
§ 353.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Traffic Code, the following
definitions apply to this article.
   ALCOHOL.
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol
or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures thereof
from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION.
      (1) The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood; or
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath; or
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W.Va. Code Art. 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W.Va. Code
§ 17E-1-9(e).
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating as determined by
federal regulation;
      (2)   If the vehicle is designed to transport sixteen or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (3)   If the vehicle is transporting hazardous materials and is required
to be placarded in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F.
   CONVICTION. The final judgment in a judicial or administrative proceeding or
a verdict or finding of guilty, a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, an
implied admission of guilty or a forfeiture of bond or collateral upon a charge
of a disqualifying offense, as a result of proceedings upon any violation of
the requirement of this article.
   DISQUALIFICATION. A prohibition against driving a commercial motor vehicle.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in any
place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic. For
purposes of §
353.06, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle
anywhere in the municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial driver license.
   DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer to drive a commercial
motor vehicle, including independent contractors. An EMPLOYEE who is employed
by himself or herself as a commercial motor vehicle driver must comply with
both the requirements of this article pertaining to employees and employers.
   EMPLOYERS. Any person, including the United States, a state or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. Includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to
the farm owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively in the
transportation of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock, poultry
and dairy products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or
produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses, canneries, railway
shipping points and cold storage plants and in the transportation of
agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards
to be used thereon.
   FARMER. Includes, but is not limited to, owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or
person in control of the premises used substantially for agricultural or
horticultural pursuits, who is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed
driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, who is at least 18 years of age with two years’ licensed
driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-3)
§ 353.02 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver license at one time except during the ten-day period beginning on the
date the person is issued a driver’s license.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-4)
§ 353.03 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Each employer shall require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W.Va. Code § 17E-1-5.
   (b)   No employer shall knowingly allow, permit or authorize a driver to
drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period:
      (1)   In which the driver has a driver’s license suspended, revoked or
canceled by a state, has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle
in a state, or has been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
or
      (2)   In which the driver has more than one driver’s license at one time,
except during the ten-day period beginning on the date the employee is issued a
driver’s license.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-6)
§ 353.04 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle they are driving.
   (b)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while his or her
driving privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled or expired, while subject to
a disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (c)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle must have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
§ 353.05 RESERVED.
§ 353.06 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (a)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances any person who:
      (1)   Drives, operates or is in physical control of a commercial motor
vehicle while having any measurable alcohol in his or her system; or
      (2)   Drives, operates or is in physical control of a commercial motor
vehicle while having an alcohol concentration of his or her blood, breath or
urine of 0.04% or more, by weight;
   (b)   Upon conviction of an offense described in subsection (a) above:
      (1)   For a violation of subsection (a)(1) thereof, such person shall be
fined not more than $100; for a second offense of subsection (a)(1) thereof,
such person shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $300, or
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days, and, for a third or any
subsequent offense, shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $1,000,
and shall be imprisoned for a period of time of not less than 24 hours and not
more than 30 days.
      (2)   For a violation of subsection (a)(2) thereof, such person shall be
imprisoned for not less than 24 hours, nor more than 30 and shall be fined not
less than $100, nor more than $500. A person violating the provisions of
subsection (a)(2) above for the second or any subsequent offense, shall be
imprisoned for a period of not more than 30 days and the court may, in its
discretion, impose a fine of not less than $1,000.
   (c)   A person who violates the provisions of subsection (a)(2) above shall
be taken immediately before a magistrate or court within the county in which
the offense charged is alleged to have been committed and who has jurisdiction
of the offense.
   (d)   In addition to any other penalties provided by this Traffic Code, a
person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a commercial motor
vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such person’s system or who refuses to
take a preliminary breath test to determine such person’s blood alcohol content
as provided by W.Va. Code § 17E-1-15 must be placed out of service for 24
hours.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-14)
§ 353.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is provided in this article, whoever violates any
provision of this article shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both; except that, for the
second violation of §
353.04 of this article, the offender shall be fined not less than $500, nor
more than $2,000, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third
or any subsequent conviction for violation of §
353.04 of this article, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000, nor
more than $2,500, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 17E-1-25)
CHAPTER SEVEN: PARKING
ARTICLE 361: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
   
361.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
   
361.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
361.03   Prohibited stopping, standing or parking places
   
361.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
361.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
361.06   Handicapped parking
   
361.07   Side street parking
   
361.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
361.09   Truck loading zones
   
361.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
361.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
361.12   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
361.13   Fire lanes
   
361.14   Unregistered or unlicensed vehicles
   
361.15   Parking for school bus
   
361.16   Specific parking prohibitions
   
361.17   Handicapped parking; residential permits; spaces
   
361.18   Blocking alley or roadway
 
   
361.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to regulate parallel and angle parking, see W.Va. Code § 17C-13-4
   Authority to regulate the standing or parking of vehicles, see W.Va. Code §
17C-2-8(a)(1)
   Duty to stop engine, set brake on grade and remove key, see Part Three, §
349.01
   Impounding of abandoned vehicles, see Part Three, §
303.07
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 361.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence
district, no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or
highway when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such
part of the street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the
street or highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be
available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or
street.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-1)
§ 361.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
361.01 of this article, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle
or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the
same, to a position off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or
highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-2)
§ 361.03 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic- control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (15)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (16)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (17)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (18)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking spaces.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-3)
§ 361.04 VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park or leave standing unattended any
vehicle on a private road or driveway or on private property without having
express or implied permission from the owner, tenant or lessee of such land.
The owner, tenant or lessee of such private road or driveway or private
property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked or left standing
unattended on his or her private road, driveway or private property as above
prohibited without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle, nor shall
he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done to such
vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant or lessee of such private road
or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing the
removal of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the
persons removing such vehicle for paying all removal costs. Any person who
removes any vehicle under the provisions of this section shall notify the State
Department of Public Safety of such action and, in addition, notify the Police
Department.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-14-13)
§ 361.05 MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case, the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (b)   This section does not apply to streets or parts thereof where angle
parking is lawfully permitted. However, no angle parking shall be permitted on
a state or federal-aid route unless approved by the State Commissioner of
Highways.
   (c)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (d)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
§ 361.06 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSON. Any person who has sustained a temporary
disability rendering it unduly difficult and burdensome for him or her to walk.
      PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON WITH LIMITED MOBILITY. Any person who
suffers from a permanent physical condition making it unduly difficult and
burdensome for such person to walk.
   (b)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid special
registration plate, mobile windshield placard or decal, may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided that, this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of the municipality is contrary to the provisions of this
section, the provisions of this section shall take precedence and shall apply.
      (2)   The privileges provided for in this subsection (b) shall apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the transportation of a
physically handicapped or disabled person. No person shall knowingly exercise,
or attempt to exercise, such privileges at a time when the vehicle is not being
used for the transportation of a physically handicapped or disabled person.
   (c)   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated, zoned or marked for the handicapped or physically disabled, and no
person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at special, clearly marked,
parking locations provided for the handicapped or physically disabled in or on
privately owned parking lots, parking garages or other parking areas, when such
person is not physically disabled or handicapped and does not have displayed
upon his or her vehicle a distinguishing insignia for the handicapped issued by
the Commissioner of Highways; provided that, any person in the act of
transporting a handicapped or physically disabled person, as defined by this
section, may stop, stand or park a motor vehicle not displaying a
distinguishing insignia for the handicapped in an area designated, zoned or
marked for the handicapped or physically disabled for the limited purposes of
loading or unloading his or her handicapped or physically disabled passenger;
provided, however, that, such vehicle shall be promptly moved after the
completion of such limited purposes.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-13-6)
§ 361.07 SIDE STREET PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided, side street parking shall be allowed on all
town streets within the corporate limits of the town. Council may upon
recommendation of the Mayor and the Chief of Police and, by resolution,
prohibit parking in such places and on such streets as it may designate and as
may be necessary for the regulation of traffic thereon.
§ 361.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (b)   Displaying advertising;
   (c)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and
   (d)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency or used car sales
agency.
§ 361.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 361.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted; except that, the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (c)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 361.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic; except that, a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading
or unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley, except while actually loading and unloading,
and then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 361.12 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (a)   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle,
testimony that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully
parked as prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further
testimony that the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the
license plate was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that
the vehicle which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant.
   (b)   A certified copy of registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles
shall be proof of such ownership.
§ 361.13 FIRE LANES.
   (a)   The marking of fire lanes on private property, devoted to public use,
shall be approved by the Fire and Police Chiefs.
   (b)   Parking of motor vehicles or otherwise obstructing fire lanes shall be
prohibited at all times.
§ 361.14 UNREGISTERED OR UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   No person shall park any vehicle on a town street when such vehicle has not
been properly registered and/or licensed by the state.
(Ord. passed 11-8-1983)
§ 361.15 PARKING FOR SCHOOL BUS.
   (a)   This section shall permit parking for the school bus for the Mother
Goose Land Day Care. Parking will be for this school bus only and the parking
space will be marked off by the town. The parking space will be approximately
45 feet in length and approximately ten wide.
   (b)   This parking area will be marked for loading and unloading of the
Mother Goose Land Day Care Center children.
(Ord. passed 8-27-1991)
§ 361.16 SPECIFIC PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   No vehicles will be permitted to stop, stand or park on the roadway of State
Route 98 located inside the jurisdiction of the Town of Nutter Fort, except for
emergency parking.
(Ord. passed 11-14-1995)
§ 361.17 HANDICAPPED PARKING; RESIDENTIAL PERMITS; SPACES.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-STREET PARKING. Includes , but is not limited to, private driveways,
garage entrances, and the presence of an empty lot adjacent or in close
proximity to the person’s property.
      PERSON WITH DISABILITY. A person entitled to consideration for a
residential handicapped parking permit/space means any person who:
         (a)   Meets the criteria for receipt of a handicapped license plate
and/or placard from the State of West Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles; and
         (b)   Has received such a license plate and/or placard from the State
of West Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles, which plate and/or placard, along
with identification verifying he or she is the person entitled to use of the
plate and/or placard.
      QUALIFIED HEALTH-CARE PROVIDER. Entitled to consideration for a
residential handicapped parking permit means any person which is:
         (a)   A licensed registered nurse, practical nurse, aide or other
home-health-care provider who certifies in writing to the Town of Nutter Fort
Traffic Commission that he or she is currently providing life support services,
rather than custodial services, to a resident of the Town of Nutter Fort at
that resident’s home; and
         (b)   Using an authorized handicapped license plate and/or placard
provided by the State of West Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (b)   No person with disability shall be entitled to a residential
handicapped parking permit/space unless the Town of Nutter Fort Traffic
Commission determines, via an on-site inspection by the liaison staff person at
the WV Division of Rehabilitation Services. A West Virginia state agency
providing services to persons with disabilities and with whom the Town of
Nutter Fort Traffic Commission has entered into a cooperative agreement, that
all four of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   No adequate off-street parking is available which accommodates that
person’s disability;
      (2)   The resident lives in a heavily populated area such that inadequate
parking exists to accommodate the person’s disability, absent provision of a
handicapped permit/space;
      (3)   No other alternative method of parking exists to accommodate the
person’s need, absent provision of a handicapped permit/space; and
      (4)   No other handicapped permit/space is already available in proximity
to the person’s property.
   (c)   No qualified health care provider shall be entitled to utilize
handicapped permit/space unless such provider is in the process of providing
life support services to a person with disability and displays in his or her
vehicle the permit allowing appropriate usage of the residential handicapped
space. Medical verification is required.
   (d)   At all times, any person with a disability utilizing a residential
handicapped space must display the permit allowing appropriate usage of the
residential handicapped space. A current handicapped license plate and/or
placard provided by the State of West Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles shall
be a sufficient permit.
   (e)   In any event, no person with disability or qualified health care
provider shall park in a designated residential handicapped parking space for
longer than 72 consecutive hours. Vehicles which are parked in such spaces for
longer than 72 consecutive hours may be ticketed and/or towed.
   (f)   After a request for a handicapped parking space has been reviewed and
the WV Department of Rehabilitation has notified the Town of Nutter Fort,
action should be taken within ten days by the Nutter Fort Traffic Commission.
This action will be reported to the Nutter Fort Council for its approval or
denial at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. passed 3-28-2000)
§ 361.18 BLOCKING ALLEY OR ROADWAY.
   A permit must be obtained to partially or completely block an alley or any
roadway located in the Town of Nutter Fort. This permit will notify the Fire
Chief and the Police Chief so that emergency vehicles, if needed in the area
can be rerouted.
(Ord. passed 9-24-1996)
§ 361.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
CHAPTER NINE: PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
ARTICLE 371: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
371.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
371.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
371.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
371.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
371.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
371.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
371.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
371.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
 
   
371.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Pedestrians at traffic signal, see Part Three, §
313.03
   Pedestrian control signal, see Part Three, §
313.04
   Pedestrian defined, see Part Three, §
301.21
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 371.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at intersections as
provided in §
313.03 of this part, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the
privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a))
§ 371.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
371.03(b) of this article.
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-2)
§ 371.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-3)
§ 371.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-4)
§ 371.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-5)
§ 371.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (a)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a street or highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (c)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-6)
§ 371.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic-control device or flagger.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-10-8)
§ 371.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W.Va. Code § 5-15-5)
§ 371.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 373: BICYCLES
Section
   
373.01   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
373.02   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
373.03   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
373.04   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
373.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
373.06   Carrying articles
   
373.07   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes; protective
helmets
   
373.08   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
 
   
373.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to regulate bicycle operation, see W.Va. Code § 17C-2-8(a)(8)
   Bicycle defined, see Part Three, §
301.03
   Moped equipment and operation, see Part Three, §
345.29
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 373.01 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this article.
   (b)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-1)
§ 373.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this Traffic Code, except as to special regulations in this article
and except as to those provisions of this Traffic Code which, by their nature,
can have no application.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-2)
§ 373.03 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-3)
§ 373.04 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-4)
§ 373.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (a)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (c)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-5)
§ 373.06 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-6)
§ 373.07 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES; PROTECTIVE
HELMETS.
   (a)   (1)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at
least 500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type
approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all
distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (b)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet; except that, a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person
use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
   (c)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W.Va. Code § 17C-11-7)
   (d)   The municipality will follow the state code regarding the Child
Bicycle Safety Act, W.Va. Code § 17C-11A-1.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 6-13-1993)
§ 373.08 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (a)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (b)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (c)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (d)   Without both hands upon the handle grips, except when necessary to
give the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
373.06 of this article; and
   (e)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
§ 373.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
303.99 of this part for general Traffic Code penalty.
PART FIVE: GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
ARTICLE 501: ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
501.01   Refusal to aid officer
   
501.02   Reserved
   
501.03   False fire alarm
   
501.04   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
501.05   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
501.06   Attempts
   
501.07   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
501.08   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
501.09   False report
   
501.10   Adoption of state law
 
   
501.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Bribery and corrupt practices generally, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-5A
   Business Regulation and Taxation Code, see Part Seven
   Crimes against public justice, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-5
   Failure to comply with lawful order of police officer, see Part Three, §
303.03
   Nuisance Abatement, see Part Eleven,
Art. 1135
   Nuisances, see Part Eleven,
Art. 1131
   Penalty not to exceed that provided in W.Va. Code Ch. 61, see W.Va. Code §
8-12-5(57)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Specific types of bribery, see W.Va. Code §§ 3-1-1 et seq., 15-2-17 et seq.,
18-2A-9, 61-10-15 and 61-10-22
   Traffic Code, see Part Three
§ 501.01 REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse or neglect to assist him or her in the execution of his of her office in
a criminal case, in the preservation of the peace or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(W.Va. Code § 61-5-14)
§ 501.02 RESERVED.
§ 501.03 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall make, turn in or telephone, or by use of any means or method
of communication aid or abet in the making or turning in of any alarm of fire
which he or she knows to be false at the time of making such alarm.
(W.Va. Code § 29-3-21)
§ 501.04 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed any
false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being made
or to be made to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive device.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-17)
§ 501.05 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official or be under the order or
direction of any such person.
      (2)   No person not a law enforcement officer or law enforcement official
shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the badge or other
insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to deceive another
person.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W.Va. Code § 30-29-1;
except that, such terms shall not include members of the State Division of
Public Safety and shall not include individuals hired by non-public entities
for the provision of security services.
(W.Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (b)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
duties, functions or powers of a municipal officer. No person not a member of
the Fire Department, for the purpose of such false representation, shall wear a
uniform or part thereof similar to the uniform worn by a member of the Fire
Department.
§ 501.06 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99 of this article if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W.Va. Code § 61-11-8)
§ 501.07 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided that, the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself, herself or others; and
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to §
533.01 of this part.
   (b)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (c)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue. When a physical arrest is made
and a citation is issued in relation to the same offense, the officer shall
mark on the citation, in the place specified for court appearance date, the
word “arrested” in lieu of the date of court appearance.
(W.Va. Code § 62-1-5(a))
§ 501.08 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when knowing the
information reported, conveyed or circulated is false or baseless, he or she:
   (a)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other
emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
   (b)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official agency
or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies involving
danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending occurrence of a
fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other emergency in
which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will result or that
firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue vehicles or
other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur, does not in
fact exist;
   (c)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged occurrence
of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an allegedly
impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact about to
occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident or to the
alleged implication of some person therein; or
   (d)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm system
or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue vehicles
or other emergency vehicles.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-20)
§ 501.09 FALSE REPORT.
   No person shall make or give a false report or false information to any
police or fire officer of the town.
§ 501.10 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The town adopts the following chapters of the West Virginia Code:
   (a)   Ch. 60, State Control of Alcoholic Beverages;
   (b)   Ch. 60A, Uniform Controlled Substance Act;
   (c)   Ch. 61, Crime and Their Punishment;
   (d)   Ch. 62, Criminal Procedure;
   (e)   Ch. 63, Repeal of Statutes; and
   (f)   Ch. 64, Legislature Rules.
(Ord. passed 11-28-1995)
§ 501.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this Part Five, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
501.01 of this article shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 61-5-14)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
501.04 of this article shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-17)
   (d)   Whoever violates §
501.05(a) of this article shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than
$1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-1-9)
ARTICLE 502: ALTERNATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF EXTERNAL SANITATION AND COMMON
NUISANCES
Section
   
502.01   Authority
   
502.02   Purpose and applicability
   
502.03   Investigations
   
502.04   Notice of violation
   
502.05   Nonpayment of fines
   
502.06   Appeal
 
   
502.99   Penalty
§ 502.01 AUTHORITY.
   This article is enacted pursuant to the authority of W.Va. Code § 8-1-5a and
the Town of Nutter Fort’s approved Home Rule Plan.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 502.02 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to provide additional and alternative
methods and processes to enforce the Municipal Code provisions regarding
exterior sanitation and common nuisances related to property located within the
town in a fair, speedy and inexpensive manner, and to improve compliance with
such provisions.
   (b)   This article shall be in addition to those methods and processes
otherwise contained in the Municipal Code of the Town of Nutter Fort and shall
be applied at the discretion of the enforcement official enforcing the
provisions of this article.
   (c)   This article shall apply to exterior sanitation and common nuisance
violations contained in the Health and Sanitation Code codified into Part 11,
the Planning and Zoning Code codified into Part 13, the Building and Housing
Code codified into Part 17, the Streets, Utilities, and Public Service Code
codified into Part 9, and the General Offenses Code codified into Part 5 of the
Municipal Code of the Town of Nutter Fort, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Nuisances affecting health or safety;
      (2)   Sanitation;
      (3)   Drainage;
      (4)   High weeds/grass;
      (5)   Graffiti;
      (6)   Exterior garbage accumulation;
      (7)   Open storage in residential districts; and
      (8)   Vehicles without proper registration.
   (d)   All planning, zoning, building, and law enforcement officers shall
authority to enforce the provisions of this article and shall be referred to
herein collectively as “enforcement officials.”
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 502.03 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon receipt of information or observation of circumstances indicating the
likelihood of a violation of any provision of the Municipal Code of the Town of
Nutter Fort regarding external sanitation or common nuisance, the enforcement
official shall investigate the facts and may, to the extent permitted by law,
make an inspection of the premises.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 502.04 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   If an enforcement official determines that a code violation exists,
the enforcement official may issue such violation to the person having either
ownership or control of any land, building, structure, sign, property, licensed
or permitted business or operation which is in violation, and shall order that
the violation be corrected. Nothing within this article shall prohibit the
enforcement officer in his or her discretion from issuing a warning prior to
issuing a citation.
   (b)   The citation shall be in writing and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The date the citation is issued;
      (2)   The name and address of the person(s) charged with the violation;
      (3)   The section of the ordinance that has been violated;
      (4)   The nature of the violation;
      (5)   The place and time the violation occurred;
      (6)   The date the notice of violation was given;
      (7)   The amount of the fine imposed for the violation;
      (8)   The name. address, and telephone number of the enforcement official
issuing the citation; and
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the office of the
Municipal Court Clerk, where fines are to be paid, and of the Municipal Court,
where citations may be appealed.
   (c)   A citation may be served by personal or substituted service in
accordance with the West Virginia Rules of Civil Procedure, by either
delivering the citation to the person in violation personally or by delivering
the citation to a member of that person’s family who is above the age of 16
years and by advising that person of the purpose of the citation. Proof of
personal service shall be made at the time of service by a written declaration
executed by the enforcement official effecting service and shall declare the
time, date, and manner by which service was made. If personal service cannot be
effectuated, the enforcement official may send the citation to the person via
certified mail, return receipt requested, delivery restricted to the addressee,
to the person’s last known address. If delivery of the certified mail is
refused by the addressee, a citation shall be conclusively presumed to have
been served. If the return receipt is not returned for any reason other than
refusal of delivery by the addressee, a citation shall be presumed to have been
served if it is also sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, which is not
returned as undeliverable by the postal service.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 502.05 NONPAYMENT OF FINES.
   All fines imposed by citations under this article shall be due within ten
days of service of the citation except as otherwise set forth herein. The
failure to pay when due any fine imposed under this article shall constitute a
failure to appear or otherwise respond under W.Va. Code § 8-10-2b and shall
result in notification to the West Virginia Department of Transportation
Division of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
502.99
§ 502.06 APPEAL.
   (a)   Any person who is issued a citation shall pay the fine indicated for
the violation, as set forth in §
502.99, in full to the office of the Municipal Court Clerk within ten days of
service of the citation. Any person alleging he or she was improperly issued
such citation may, within ten days of service of such citation, file a petition
for appeal of the citation, along with the required bond, with the Municipal
Court Clerk in accordance with the following:
      (1)   In order to properly and timely appeal his or her citation, within
ten days of service of the citation, the recipient of the citation shall pay
the required amount of the applicable fine in full to the Municipal Court
Clerk, which amount will be held by the Municipal Court as bond pending hearing
and resolution of the case by the Municipal Court and the Municipal Court Clerk
shall issue a receipt to the recipient of the citation showing the amount of
the bond paid. In addition to the bond, the recipient of the citation shall
file with the Municipal Court Clerk a petition for appeal of the citation. If
any petition for appeal filed in accordance with this section is not timely
filed or is not accompanied with the required bond, the recipient of the
citation shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to appeal the
citation, and such petition shall be summarily denied as untimely filed;
provided, however, that nothing set forth hereinabove shall prevent the
Municipal Court Judge from finding, upon a proper application and showing. that
the recipient of the citation suffers from financial hardship, and, as a
result, waiving the requirement that the bond be posted.
      (2)   Any petition for appeal filed with the Municipal Clerk must be in
writing, on the form to be provided by the Municipal Court Clerk, and must be
signed by the recipient of the citation affirming that the contents of the
petition are true and accurate to the best of the recipient of the citation’s
knowledge at that time. Such petition for appeal shall state the facts and
reasons in support of the petition. Upon filing any such petition for appeal
with the Municipal Court Clerk, the recipient of the citation shall serve a
copy of the petition and receipt showing proof of bond, or application for
waiver thereof, upon the Town Attorney.
   (b)   Upon filing of a petition for appeal with the Municipal Court Clerk,
the Clerk or his or her designee shall place the case on the Municipal Court
docket, set the case for hearing within 30 days from the date of the filing of
the petition for appeal, provide a notice of hearing to the recipient of the
citation, and forward a copy of the petition to the enforcement official who
issued the citation. Upon receipt of the petition, the enforcement official
shall cause a copy of the citation at issue to be forwarded to the Municipal
Court Clerk who shall file it as the original complaint alleging the violation
indicated herein.
   (c)   The Municipal Court shall treat the citation itself as the original
complaint before the Court. At the close of all of the evidence presented at
the hearing on the petition for appeal, should the Municipal Judge find against
the recipient of the citation, the bond posted by the recipient of the citation
shall be applied as payment for the fine imposed for the violation. In the
event the Municipal Court Judge finds that the recipient of the citation
suffers from financial hardship, the applicable fine from § 
502.99 shall be imposed, and the Municipal Court Judge shall have the ability
to grant the recipient of the citation a certain amount of time to pay the
fine, at the Municipal Court Judge’s discretion. Should the Court find in favor
of the recipient of the citation, the bond, if applicable, shall be refunded to
the recipient of the citation by the Municipal Court Clerk, and the citation
shall be dismissed.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
502.99
§ 502.99 PENALTY.
   Any person issued a citation pursuant to §
502.04(a) shall be punished by a fine as follows: within any 12-month period,
$100 for the first citation, $200 for the second citation, $300 for the third
citation, and $500 for the fourth citation and each citation thereafter.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-10-2021)
ARTICLE 505: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
505.01   Cruelty to animals
   
505.02   Cruelty to dogs and cats
   
505.03   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
505.04   Barking or howling dogs
   
505.05   Dangerous and vicious dogs; dogs running at large
   
505.06   Dogs and cats running at large
   
505.07   Town designated bird sanctuary
   
505.08   Keeping fowl, certain animals within town prohibited
   
505.09   Animals and fowl running at large
   
505.10   Engaging in or attending dog fights, cock fights and the like
prohibited
   
505.11   Use of lame, diseased or vicious animal
   
505.12   Humane officer
   
505.13   Care and disposal of animals abandoned, neglected or cruelly treated
   
505.14   Dogs
 
   
505.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to prevent ill-treatment of animals, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(27)
   Authority to regulate the keeping of animals, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(26)
   Diseases among domestic animals, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-9
   Disposing of dead animals, see W.Va. Code § 16-9-3
   Dogs generally, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-20
   Domestic animal tax, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-10
   Hunting, see W.Va. Code Art. 20-2
   Vaccination of dogs, see W.Va. Code Art. 19-20A
§ 505.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall cruelly mistreat, abandon or withhold proper
sustenance, including food, water, shelter or medical treatment necessary to
sustain normal health and fitness or to end suffering or abandon any animal to
die, or use, train or possess any domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
   (b)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (c)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
§ 505.02 CRUELTY TO DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat, irrespective
of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that of another person. No
person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any place unprotected from
the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of food and
water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick or diseased dog or cat or be engaged
in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one dog or cat to fight against
another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat, or receive money
for the admission of any person, or use, train or possess a dog or cat for the
purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other dog or cat.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-19a)
§ 505.03 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality so as
to create noxious, or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are a
menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
§ 505.04 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the municipality which, by
frequent and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud
and disturbing noises of such a character, intensity and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet and good order of the municipality. Any person who shall allow
any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or fed within any dwelling, building,
yard or enclosure, which he or she occupies or owns, shall be considered as
harboring such dog.
§ 505.05 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS; DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that, without provocation, and subject hereto, has
chased or approached in either a menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of
attack, or has attempted to bite or otherwise endanger any person, while that
dog is off the premises of its owner, keeper or harborer and not under the
reasonable control of its owner, keeper, harborer or some other responsible
person, or not physically restrained or confined in a locked pen which has a
top, locked fenced yard or other locked enclosure which has a top. DANGEROUS
DOG does not include a police dog that has chased or approached in either a
menacing fashion or an apparent attitude of attack, or has attempted to bite or
otherwise endanger any person while the police dog is being used to assist one
or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      MENACING FASHION. A dog would cause any person being chased or approached
to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to that person.
      POLICE DOG. A dog that has been trained, and may be used, to assist one
or more law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   A dog that, without provocation and subject hereto, meets any of
the following:
            1.   Has killed or caused serious injury to any person;
            2.   Has caused injury, other than killing or serious injury to any
person, or has killed another dog; and/or
            3.   Belongs to a breed that is commonly known as a pit bull dog,
the ownership, keeping or harboring of such a breed of dog shall be prima facie
evidence of the ownership keeping or harboring of a vicious dog.
         (b)   VICIOUS DOG does not include either of the following:
            1.   A police dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any
person or that has caused injury, other than killing or serious injury, to any
person while the police dog is being used to assist one or more law enforcement
officers in the performance of their official duties; and/or
            2.   A dog that has killed or caused serious injury to any person
while a person was committing or attempting to commit a trespass or other
criminal offense on the property of the owner, keeper or harborer of the dog.
      WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog was not teased, tormented or abused by a
person, or that the dog was not coming to the aid or the defense of a person
who was not engaged in illegal or criminal activity and who was not using the
dog as a means of carrying out such activity.
   (b)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to go
beyond the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer at any time the dog is in
heat, unless the dog is properly on a leash.
   (c)   No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to keep
it either physically confined or restrained upon the premises of the owner,
keeper or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence, supervision or secure
enclosure to prevent escape or under reasonable control of some person.
   (d)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a dangerous or vicious dog shall fail
to do either of the following:
      (1)   While that dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer,
securely confine it at all times in a locked pen which has a top, locked fenced
yard or other locked enclosure which has a top; except that, a dangerous dog
may, in the alternative, be tied with a leash or tether so that the dog is
adequately restrained; and/or
      (2)   While that dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper or
harborer, keep it on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than six
feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following:
         (a)   Keep that dog in a locked pen which has a top, locked fenced
yard and/or other locked enclosure which has a top;
         (b)   Have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of
suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or
tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station such a person in close enough proximity to
that dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; and/or
         (c)   Muzzle that dog.
   (e)   No owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious dog shall fail to obtain
liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write liability insurance in
the state providing coverage in each occurrence, subject to a limit, exclusive
of interest and costs, of not less than $50,000 because of damage or bodily
injury to or death of a person caused by the vicious dog.
   (f)   (1)   Whoever violates subsections (b) or (c) above shall be fined
$100.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in subsection (f)(1) above,
if the offender is guilty of a violation of subsections (b) or (c) above, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dog that he or she
owns, keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to complete the dog obedience
training, or to do both.
   (g)   If a violation of subsection (d) above involves a dangerous dog,
whoever violates that subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor on a first offense.
Additionally, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
dangerous dog that he or she owns, keeps or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both, and the court may order the
offender to obtain liability insurance pursuant to subsection (e) above. The
court, in the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed
by a licensed veterinarian, the Dog Warden or the humane society.
   (h)   Whoever violates subsections (d) or (e) above shall be fined not more
than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both.
(Ord. passed 8-21-1987)
§ 505.06 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (a)   Leash required. No owner or person in charge of any dog or cat,
whether or not such dog or cat has attached to it a license tag, shall cause or
permit such dog or cat to run at large or be upon a street, sidewalk or public
place within the town, unless such dog or cat is on a leash and accompanied by
its owner or some other person in charge of such dog or cat.
   (b)   Impoundment. If any dog or cat shall be found running at large or
unleashed in the town in violation of subsection (a) above, it shall be taken
up and impounded in the town pound, or other designated proper facility, by the
Police Chief or other person designated as a humane officer, and securely kept
subject to the provisions of this article.
   (c)   Town to provide or designate pound; notification of owner; redemption.
The town shall provide, or designate and make provisions for the use of, a
pound where all dogs and cats taken up under the provisions of this section
shall be impounded, and where such dogs and cats so taken up and impounded
shall be kept, housed and fed for five days or the allotted amount of time
specified by the pound; provided that, if such dog or cat shall have attached
to it a license tag, it shall be the duty of the person in charge of the pound
to promptly give written notice to the owner of such dog or cat by mailing such
notice, return receipt requested, to such owner at the address shown upon the
records of the County Assessor. The owner of such dog or cat may redeem the
same by paying $7.50, the cost of notification or actual charge of housing of
animal from the shelter or pound. An additional charge will be added for the
violation of §
505.14(b) of this article. The animal will be ticketed under this section and
will not be released until both impoundment fees and ticket is paid in full.
   (d)   Disposal. The person in charge of the pound shall hold any dog or cat
brought to him or her for a period of at least five days, at the expiration of
which time, if such dog has not been redeemed as provided in subsection (c)
above, such animal may be put to death, or, if the animal is worthy in value,
it may be sold at public auction to the highest bidder at 2:00 p.m. of the day
next succeeding the last day of the five-day period or at any time thereafter;
provided that, no dog or cat shall be sold for less than the fee required for
redemption, as provided in subsection (c) above; and, provided further that,
the impounding and killing or sale of any such dog or cat shall not relieve the
owner thereof from prosecution for the violation of subsection (a) above.
   (e)   Penalty. Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than
$15, nor more than $100.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1986; Ord. passed 1-14-1997)
§ 505.07 TOWN DESIGNATED BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The town is hereby designated a bird sanctuary under existing state, federal
and municipal laws. The citizens of the town are requested to feed and shelter
desirable birds and to protect them from predators and vandals.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973)
§ 505.08 KEEPING FOWL, CERTAIN ANIMALS WITHIN TOWN PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep, maintain, raise or otherwise harbor within the
town any fowl, including, but not limited to the following types of fowl:
chickens; guineas; ducks; geese; turkeys; and pigeons.
   (b)   No person shall keep, maintain, raise or otherwise harbor within the
town the following animals: horses; mules; goats; hogs; rabbits; cattle; and
wild animals of any type or nature.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973; Ord. passed 4-8-1986)
§ 505.09 ANIMALS AND FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner shall permit any fowl, or animal referred to in §
505.08 of this article to run at large within the town. All such fowl and
animals found running at large within the town shall be taken up by the Chief
of Police or other designated officer of the town and placed in the town pound
or other designated and suitable place; provided that, any competent person may
lead, drive or ride, as appropriate, a horse, mule, goat or cattle upon and
over the public thoroughfares of the town when such animal is in the actual
charge of such person in such manner that the same may be prevented from
trespassing upon and over lawns, sidewalks, grass plots or over other public or
private property not used or intended as a traveled roadway.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973)
§ 505.10 ENGAGING IN OR ATTENDING DOG FIGHTS, COCK FIGHTS AND THE LIKE
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be engaged in or employed at cock fighting, dog fighting,
pitting one animal to fight against another of the same or different kind, or
any similar cruelty; nor shall any person receive money for the admission of
any person, or knowingly purchase an admission, to any place kept for any such
purpose; nor shall any person use, train or possess a dog or other animal for
the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other domestic animal.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973)
§ 505.11 USE OF LAME, DISEASED OR VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   No person shall bring into the town from any state, territory, county or
jurisdiction without the town on, over or along any public street, any animal
which is not fit for use, or which is not free from lameness or sores or
vicious propensities likely to cause delay in traffic, or to obstruct any such
street or to spread contagious diseases or to cause accident or injury on any
such street or place to persons or property using the same. No person shall
drive or work any such animal on, over or along any public street in the town,
or for the owner of any such animal to allow or permit the same to be driven or
worked on, over or along the same, or be brought on, along or over the same
into the town from any other state, territory, county or jurisdiction beyond
the territorial limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973)
§ 505.12 HUMANE OFFICER.
   (a)   The Chief of Police, or any other person who may be from time to time
designated for such purpose by Council, shall act as human officer, and
investigate all complaints made to the Police Department of cruel or inhumane
treatment of animals within the town, and to see that the law relating to the
prevention of cruelty to animals is enforced.
   (b)   The Chief of Police, or the human officer, if designated, shall
prevent the perpetration or continuance of any act of cruelty upon any animal
in his or her presence, and arrest and prosecute any person engaging in such
cruel and forbidden practices in his or her presence or whom he or she has
reasonable cause to believe guilty thereof after investigating any complaint
made to him or her. No person shall interfere with, or obstruct, or resist any
humane officer in the discharge of his or her duty.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973)
§ 505.13 CARE AND DISPOSAL OF ANIMALS ABANDONED, NEGLECTED OR CRUELLY TREATED.
   (a)   The Chief of Police, or humane officer, if designated, shall take
charge of any fowl or animal found abandoned, neglected or cruelly treated, and
any wagon or vehicle attached thereto, and shall thereupon give or cause to be
given to the owner thereof, if known, notice of such seizure and shall care and
provide for, or cause to be cared and provided for, such fowl or animal until
the owner shall take charge of the same. The expense of the care and provision
for any fowl or animal taken up or impounded under the provisions of this
section shall be a charge against the owner and a lien upon the fowl, or animal
and vehicle, and such fowl, or animal and vehicle, shall not be turned over to
such owner until all such expense is paid; provided that, if it shall appear to
the arresting officer that the owner has willfully abandoned, neglected or
cruelly treated the fowl or animal, the same shall not be returned to him or
her until he or she has been acquitted of the charge in the Municipal Court,
or, if convicted thereof, until he or she shall execute bond in the penalty of
not less than $100 before the Municipal Judge, conditioned not to again cruelly
treat such fowl or animal and not then until he or she has fully paid all the
time it shall have been in the possession of such officer; and, provided
further that, if the owner shall neglect or refuse to pay such expense, then
the officer shall sell the fowl or animal as provided in subsection (c) below.
   (b)   When the Police Chief, or any humane officer, properly designated,
shall provide any neglected or abandoned fowl or animal found running at large
with proper food, shelter and care, or shall cause another proper person to do
so, the town shall have a lien upon such fowl or animal for the expense
thereof, and such expense shall be charged against the owner of the fowl or
animal and shall be collectible from the owner as provided in subsection (c)
below.
   (c)   When the town is entitled to any lien under the provisions of
subsections (a) or (b) above, it may enforce the same by selling the fowl or
animal and other personal property upon which the lien is given, at public
auction, upon giving written notice to the owner, if he or she be known, of the
time and place of the sale at least five days previous thereto, and by posting
three notices of the time and place of such sale in three public places within
the town at least five days previous thereto, and if the owner be not known,
then such notices shall be posted at least ten days previous to the day of
sale.
   (d)   The Police Chief, or designated humane officer, shall file with the
Recorder within five days after the sale of any impounded fowl, animal or
property, a full report of all money received from such sale, the cost of
keeping the fowl or animal as provided in subsection (f) below, and the costs
attending such sale, and the Police Chief, or designated humane officer shall,
after deducting all expenses, fees and costs, pay all surplus money if any,
arising from the sale of any impounded fowl, horse, mule, goat, hog, pig or
cattle to the Town Recorder, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate,
one copy of which shall be retained by the officer and the other shall be
turned over to the Municipal Court Judge, and the Town Recorder shall place all
money so received by him or her from the sale of impounded animals to the
credit of the General Fund and account for the same as for other money in his
or her charge.
   (e)   All money received by the Recorder from the sale of impounded fowl or
animals shall be paid over to the owner thereof, in the same manner as other
public funds are disbursed; provided, written demand therefor is made to the
Recorder by the rightful owner thereof within 60 days from the sale of such
animal.
   (f)   (1)   The following costs and fees shall be collected from the owner:
         (a)   For taking up and impounding each fowl, goat, hog, pig, sheep or
calf: $20;
         (b)   For taking up and impounding each horse, mule, cow, ox or bull:
$20;
         (c)   For feeding each fowl, goat, hog, pig, sheep or calf, per day:
$5;
         (d)   For feeding any horse, mule, cow, ox or bull: $5; and
         (e)   For making sale of such fowl or animal: 20% of the sale price
thereof.
      (2)   Provided, that the officer may have such fowl or animal properly
provided for by some other suitable person, at a rate not to exceed the fees
herein provided, in lieu of assuming such responsibility until the fowl or
animal is sold or is returned to the owner as provided in this article. Such
fees, when collected, shall be paid over by the officer to the Recorder.
   (g)   No person shall break open or in any manner, directly or indirectly,
aid or assist in breaking open any pound established by the town, or any
enclosure in which an impounded fowl or animal may be kept or take or let any
horse, mule, goat, hog, cattle or any other fowl or animal out of the public
pound or other enclosure when so kept without the consent of the person or
officer in charge thereof. Any person guilty of violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $10,
nor more than $100.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973; Ord. passed 4-8-1986)
§ 505.14 DOGS.
   (a)   Head tax.
      (1)   There is hereby levied, annually, from January 1, a tax upon any
citizen or inhabitant of the town, for the privileges of owning, keeping or
harboring any dog above the age of six months. Any person or resident of or
inhabiting any house within the town and owning or keeping any such dog or
allowing or permitting any such dog to be or remain at or about such house,
shall be deemed the owner of such dog for the purpose of this section. Any such
dog is hereby declared to be personal property within the meaning of the laws
of the state.
      (2)   The tax for the privilege of owning or keeping such dog or
permitting or allowing such dog to remain at or about any such house, shall be
$1 on each male or spayed female dog, and $2 on each unspayed female dog, which
tax shall be collected by the County Assessor, at the same time and in the same
manner and form as the county taxes are collected, as provided by W.Va. Code §
19-20-2.
   (b)   Running at large prohibited: leash required. No owner or person in
charge of any dog, whether or not such dog has attached to it a license tag,
shall cause or permit such dog to run at large or be upon a street, sidewalk or
public place within the town, unless such dog is on a leash and accompanied by
its owner or some other person in charge of such dog. Any person guilty of
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not less than $15, nor more than $100.
   (c)   Impoundment. If any dog shall be found running at large or unleashed
in the town in violation of subsection (b) above, it shall be taken up and
impounded in the town dog pound, or other designated proper facility, by the
Police Chief or other person designated as a humane officer, and securely kept
subject to the provisions of this section.
      (1)   The town shall provide, or designate and make provisions for the
use of a dog pound where all dogs taken up under the provisions of this section
shall be impounded, and where such dogs so taken up and impounded shall be
kept, housed and fed for five days; provided that, if such dog shall have
attached to it a license tag, it shall be the duty of the person in charge of
the dog pound to promptly give written notice to the owner of such dog by
mailing such notice, return receipt requested, to such owner at the address
shown upon the records of the County Assessor. The owner of such dog may redeem
the same by paying $5, the cost of notification, plus an additional $0.50 for
each day that such dog shall have been impounded.
      (2)   The person in charge of the dog pound shall hold any dog brought to
him or her for a period of at least five days, at the expiration of which time,
if such dog has not been redeemed as provided in subsection (c)(1) above, such
animal may be put to death, or, if the animal is worthy in value, it may be
sold at public auction to the highest bidder at 2:00 p.m. of the day next
succeeding the last day of the five-day period or at any time thereafter;
provided that, no dog shall be sold for less than the fee required for
redemption, as provided in subsection (c)(1) above; and, provided further that,
the impounding and killing or sale of any such dog shall not relieve the owner
thereof from prosecution for the violation of subsection (b) above.
   (d)   Defecation removal.
      (1)   The owner or person in charge or control of any dog, cat or other
animal which defecates upon any lawn, tree, shrub plant or water within the
Town of Nutter Fort, including its parks, shall immediately clean, all feces
and cause its removal to a proper receptacle.
      (2)   Persons medically requiring the need of a “seeing eye dog” while
relying upon a dog specifically trained for this purpose shall be exempt from
compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 6-12-1973)
§ 505.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
505.01(b) of this article shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$1,000.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-19)
   (b)   Whoever violates §
505.02 of this article shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both. In addition, the humane officer may remove the dog
or cat involved and place it in the pound and such dog or cat shall not be
returned to the owner or perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but shall be put up
for adoption to a desirable home or given into the care of a humane society or
upon the recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely destroyed.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-19a) (Ord. passed 9-8-1992)
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 509: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
Section
   
509.01   Disorderly conduct
   
509.02   Loitering on school property
   
509.03   Wearing masks, hoods or face coverings
 
   
509.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to maintain order, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5 (19), (44)
   Breach of peace with weapon, see Part Five, §
545.02
   Crimes against the peace, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-6
   Intoxication or drinking in public places, see Part Five, §
521.06
§ 509.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall, in a public place, a mobile home park, a public
parking area, a common area of an apartment building or dormitory, or a common
area of a privately-owned commercial shopping center, mall or other group of
commercial retail establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent,
profane, indecent or boisterous conduct or language or by the making of
unreasonably loud noise that is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another
person, and who persists in such conduct after being requested to desist by a
law enforcement officer acting in his or her lawful capacity.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
         (a)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A privately-owned residential housing area or
subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes and
wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for purposes
of ingress and egress, parking, recreation and other like residential purposes.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An area, whether publicly or privately owned or
maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
§ 509.02 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person, not a student in regular attendance, shall loiter in or about any
school, school building or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-14a)
§ 509.03 WEARING MASKS, HOODS OR FACE COVERINGS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby or foyer open to, used by or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained or operated by the state or municipality;
      (4)   Ask, request or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling or place of business of any other person within this
municipality; or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained from
the owner or occupant thereof.
   (b)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood or device in theatrical productions, including
use in Mardi Gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood or device prescribed for civil defense drills,
exercises or emergencies; or
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport.
(W.Va. Code § 61-6-22)
§ 509.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
509.01 of this article shall be fined not more than $100.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
509.02 of this article shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense,
such person shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 513: GAMBLING
Section
   
513.01   Keeping or exhibiting gambling apparatus
   
513.02   Permitting gambling apparatus on premises
   
513.03   Acting as lookout or guard for keeper of gambling apparatus
   
513.04   Playing on gambling apparatus; hotels, public places
   
513.05   Making wager for value or furnishing money to another for wager
   
513.06   Permitting gambling at public places
   
513.07   Cheating or fraudulent actions while gambling or making a wager
   
513.08   Pool rooms and pool tickets
   
513.09   Lotteries and raffles
 
   
513.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Crimes against public policy, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-10
   Gambling at fairs prohibited, see W.Va. Code § 19-7-8
   Gaming contracts, see W.Va. Code Art. 55-9
   Pari-mutuel system of wagering at race track permitted, see W.Va. Code § 19-
23-9
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 513.01 KEEPING OR EXHIBITING GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an A.B.C. or
E.O. table, faro bank, keno table or any slot machine, multiple-coin console
machine, multiple-coin console slot machine or device in the nature of a slot
machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind, under any
denomination or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank, machine or
device is played with cards, dice or otherwise, or be a partner, or concerned
in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank, machine or gaming
device of any character. Any such table, faro bank, machine or gaming device,
and all money staked or exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table or
upon such gaming device, may be seized by order of the Police Court and the
money so seized shall be forfeited to the municipality and paid into the
Municipal Treasury and the table, faro bank, machine or gaming device shall be
completely destroyed. However, the provisions of this section shall not extend
to coin-operated non-payout machines with free play features or to automatic
weighing, measuring, musical and vending machines which are so constructed as
to give a certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin
deposited therein and in which there is no element of chance.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-1)
§ 513.02 PERMITTING GAMBLING APPARATUS ON PREMISES.
   No person shall knowingly permit a gaming table, bank or device, as
mentioned in §
513.01 of this article, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his or her
occupation.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-2)
§ 513.03 ACTING AS LOOKOUT OR GUARD FOR KEEPER OF GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall act as doorkeeper, guard or watch, or employ another person
to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any gaming table, bank or device
as mentioned in §
513.01 of this article, nor resist, nor by any means or device, prevent, hinder
or delay the lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure of the
table, bank or device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, nor unlawfully
take the same from the person seizing it.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-3)
§ 513.04 PLAYING ON GAMBLING APPARATUS; HOTELS, PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall bet or play at any gaming table, bank or device as mentioned
in §
513.01 of this article, or, at any hotel or tavern, other public place or place
of public resort, play at any game, except bowling, chess or backgammon,
draughts or a licensed game, or bet on the side of those who play at any game,
whether or not the game is permitted or licensed.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-4)
§ 513.05 MAKING WAGER FOR VALUE OR FURNISHING MONEY TO ANOTHER FOR WAGER.
   No person shall, at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or other
thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or other
thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-5)
§ 513.06 PERMITTING GAMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES.
   No keeper of a hotel, tavern or other public place shall permit unlawful
gaming at his or her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor or other place
appurtenant thereto.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-6)
§ 513.07 CHEATING OR FRAUDULENT ACTIONS WHILE GAMBLING OR MAKING A WAGER.
   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in any
stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any game
or making a wager, shall cheat, or by fraudulent means win or acquire for
himself or herself, or another, money or any other valuable thing.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-9)
§ 513.08 POOL ROOMS AND POOL TICKETS.
   POOL ROOM, wherever used in this section, means any room where any pool
ticket, chance voucher or certificate is sold entitling or purporting to
entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or other
thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prizefight, game
of chance, game of skill or science or other sport or contest. No person shall
set up or promote, or be connected with or interested in the management or
operation of any poolroom. The buying, selling or transferring of tickets or
chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-10)
§ 513.09 LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote or be
concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other thing
of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her control;
knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such house or to
be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of chance;
knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or share of a
ticket in a lottery, or any writing, certificate, bill, token or other device
purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person or to entitle him
or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn in a
lottery. No person shall, for himself, herself or any other person, buy, sell,
transfer or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale or with
intent to exchange, negotiate or transfer, or aid in selling, exchanging,
negotiating or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a ticket, in a
lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token or device. However, this
section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain type or form of lottery or
raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy” or “numbers”.
(W.Va. Code § 61-10-11)
§ 513.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §§
513.04 or
513.06 of this article shall be fined not more than $100.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
513.05 of this article shall be fined not more than $300.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 517: INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
Section
   
517.01   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging in prostitution,
lewdness or assignation
   
517.02   Detention of person in place of prostitution
   
517.03   Pandering
   
517.04   Pimping
   
517.05   Profane swearing and drunkenness
   
517.06   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
517.07   Indecent exposure
   
517.08   Invasion of privacy by looking
   
517.09   Preparation, distribution or exhibition of obscene matter to minors
   
517.10   Sale or display of obscene matter
 
   
517.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to prevent indecent practices, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(19)
   Authority to prohibit distribution of obscene literature, see W.Va. Code §
8-12-5(17)
   Authority to suppress houses of ill fame, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(18)
   Equitable remedies, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-9
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 517.01 OPERATING A PLACE FOR OR PERMITTING OR ENGAGING IN PROSTITUTION,
LEWDNESS OR ASSIGNATION.
   (a)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain or operate any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or part thereof, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or
part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to be used for
the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, or let, sublet or rent
any such place, premises or conveyance to another with knowledge or good reason
to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to use such place, premises or
conveyance for prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or offer, or offer to
secure another for the purpose of prostitution or for any other lewd or
indecent act; or receive or offer or agree to receive any person into any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation, or permit any person to remain there for such purpose; or for
another or others, direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take or
transport, or aid or assist in transporting any person to any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer or other
conveyance, or to any other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to
believe that the purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is
prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing
of any acts herein prohibited. Whoever violates this subsection (a) shall, for
a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation,
or solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of prostitution,
lewdness or assignation; or reside in, enter or remain in any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or enter or remain in any
vehicle, trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness
or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this subsection (b) shall, for a first or second
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
   (c)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting, subletting or
renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure
which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, shall
be void from and after the date any person who is a party to such an agreement
shall be convicted of an offense hereunder. TOURIST CAMP includes any temporary
or permanent buildings, tents, cabins or structures, or trailers or other
vehicles which are maintained, offered or used for dwelling or sleeping
quarters for pay.
   (d)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-5)
§ 517.02 DETENTION OF PERSON IN PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall, by any means, keep, hold, detain or restrain any
person in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is
practiced or allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain or
restrain or attempt to keep, hold, detain or restrain, in any house of
prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any
person by any means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or
indirectly, to pay, liquidate or cancel any debt, dues or obligations incurred
or said to have been incurred by such person.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-6)
§ 517.03 PANDERING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of prostitution,
or by promises, threats, violence or by any device or scheme, cause, induce,
persuade or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house of prostitution,
or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution for a person. No
person shall, by promises, threats, violence or any device or scheme cause,
induce, persuade or encourage an inmate of a house of prostitution to remain
therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice, or by duress of person
or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or authority, procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to enter any place in which
prostitution is encouraged or allowed within the municipality, or to come into
or leave the municipality for the purpose of prostitution, or shall procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within the municipality or to
come into or leave the municipality for the purpose of prostitution; or shall
receive or give or agree to receive or give any money or thing of value for
procuring or attempting to procure any person to become an inmate of a house of
ill fame within the municipality, or to come into or leave the municipality for
the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of the municipality, and the offense shall in such case be
deemed and alleged to have been committed and the offender tried and punished
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-7)
§ 517.04 PIMPING.
   (a)   No person, knowing another person to be a prostitute, shall live or
derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution. A
prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution hereunder to testify
for or against the accused as to any transaction or conversation with the
accused, or by the accused with another person or persons in the presence of
the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the accused before or
after the violation of any of the provisions of this section, whether called as
a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its dissolution.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-8)
§ 517.05 PROFANE SWEARING AND DRUNKENNESS.
   No person having arrived at the age of discretion shall profanely curse or
swear or get drunk in public.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-15)
§ 517.06 OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (a)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (c)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made, or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8-16)
§ 517.07 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus or the
sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure by
another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under circumstances
in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm.
(W.Va. Code § 61-8B-10)
§ 517.08 INVASION OF PRIVACY BY LOOKING.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door or other aperture of any building, structure or other enclosure of
any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure or enclosure be permanently situated or
transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
§ 517.09 PREPARATION, DISTRIBUTION OR EXHIBITION OF OBSCENE MATTER TO MINORS.
   (a)   Definitions of terms used in this section, and any variations thereof
required by the context, shall have the meaning ascribed to them as follows.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who renders personal services in the course of a
business, who receives compensation therefor at a fixed rate and who has no
financial interest in the ownership or operation of the business other than his
or her salary or wages.
      EXHIBIT. To display or offer for viewing, whether with or without
consideration.
      KNOWINGLY. To display or offer for viewing, whether with or without
consideration.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or any statue or other figure, or live conduct, or any
recording, transcription or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or
any other articles, equipment, machines or materials.
      MINOR. Any individual under the age of 18 years.
      OBSCENE MATTER. To the average individual, applying contemporary state
standards, matter which:
         (a)   Considered as a whole, appeals to the prurient interests;
         (b)   Depicts or describes in a patently offensive manner ultimate
sexual acts, both normal and perverted, actual or simulated, masturbation,
sodomy, fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
         (c)   Considered as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display rack, window showcase, display
case or similar public place, so that the material within the meaning of
“obscene matter” is easily visible from a public thoroughfare, from the
property of others or from commercial or business premises generally open to
minors at the time of such placing.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly send or cause to be sent or bring or cause
to be brought into the municipality any obscene matter for distribution,
exhibition or public display to a minor, or in the municipality prepare for,
distribute to, exhibit to or publicly display to a minor any obscene matter, or
offer to prepare for, distribute to, exhibit to or publicly display to a minor
any obscene matter, or have in his or her possession with the intent to
distribute, exhibit or make a public display of, any obscene matter to a minor.
   (c)   No employees shall be guilty of a violation of this section when such
employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, usher or when such employee
distributes, prepares or exhibits obscene matter while acting within the scope
of his or her employment.
   (d)   Any person who distributes or exhibits obscene matter, or possesses
obscene matter with the intent to distribute or exhibit the same in the course
of his or her business, is presumed to do so with knowledge of its content or
character.
   (e)   No person shall be guilty of distributing or exhibiting obscene matter
to a minor when such person has reasonable cause to believe that the minor
involved was 18 years of age or more and such minor exhibited to such person a
driver’s license, draft card or other official or apparently official document
purporting to establish that such minor was 18 years of age or more.
   (f)   No person who, with knowledge that a person is a minor under 18 years
of age, or who, while in possession of such facts that he or she should
reasonably know that such person is a minor under 18 years of age, shall hire,
employ or use such minor to do or assist in doing any of the acts described in
subsection (a) above.
(W.Va. Code Art. 61-8A)
§ 517.10 SALE OR DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (a)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Town of Nutter Fort Obscene
Material Ordinance”.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIVIDUAL. Any human being regardless of age.
      KNOWINGLY. To have knowledge of or to be aware of the content or
character of obscene matter.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription or
mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines or material.
      OBSCENE. Matter which the average individual applying contemporary
community standards would find, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest; depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; and the matter, taken as a
whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value, and
which either:
         (a)   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, masochism; or
         (b)   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case or similar public place so that material can be purchased or viewed by
individuals.
   (c)   Injunctive relief. The Circuit Court of Harrison County shall have
jurisdiction to issue an injunction to enforce the purposes of this article
upon petition by the attorney for the municipality or a representative thereof
or any resident of the municipality who can show a good faith and valid reason
for making such application. No bond shall be required unless for good cause
shown.
   (d)   Activities prohibited. No person shall knowingly send or cause to be
sent or cause to be brought into the municipality for sale or public display,
or prepare, sell or make a public display, or in the municipality, offer to
prepare, sell or make a public display, or have in his or her possession with
the intent to sell or make a public display of, any obscene matter to any
individual.
   (e)   Employees acting within scope of employment. No employee shall be
guilty of a violation of this section when such employee is a projectionist,
ticket taker, usher or when such employee prepares, sells or makes a public
display of obscene matter while acting within the scope of his or her regular
employment, unless such employee has a proprietary interest in such obscene
matter or is a shareholder or officer of a corporation which has a proprietary
interest in such obscene matter.
   (f)   Exemptions. Nothing in this article shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the Constitution or laws of the
state or of the United States.
   (g)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. A person
convicted of a second or subsequent offense under this article, shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. passed - -2004)
§ 517.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §§
517.01(a) or 517.07 of this article shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
517.01(b) of this article shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both, and for a second offense shall be fined not more
than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
517.10 of this article shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense,
such person shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six
months, or both.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 519: JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
519.01   Definitions
   
519.02   Storing on private property
   
519.03   On private property in excess of 30 days prohibited; exception
   
519.04   Notice requiring removal
   
519.05   Jurisdiction to hear cases
 
   
519.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to prohibit accumulation of junk, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(10),
(23)
   Disposal of junk vehicles, see W.Va. Code Art. 17-24A
   Impounding junk vehicles, see Part Three, §
303.07
   Nuisances, see Part Eleven,
Art. 1131
§ 519.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle to which the last registered owner of
record thereof has relinquished all further dominion and control. Any vehicle
which is wrecked or partially dismantled or inoperative for a period of 30 days
shall constitute a prima facie presumption that the last registered owner
thereof has abandoned such vehicle, regardless of whether the physical
possession of such vehicle remains in the technical custody or control of such
owner.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or
highway.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 519.02 STORING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The accumulation and storage of wrecked, junked, abandoned or partially
dismantled or inoperative vehicles, or parts thereof, on private property
located within the town, except as expressly permitted in this article, does
constitute a public nuisance, as well as a fire, health and sanitation hazard,
which may be abated as such.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 519.03 ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN EXCESS OF 30 DAYS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall park, store or leave or permit the parking, storing or
leaving of any motor vehicle which is in a rusted, wrecked, junked, partially
dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition upon any private property within
the town for a period in excess of 30 days unless such vehicle is completely
enclosed within a building or unless such vehicle is so stored or parked on
private property in connection with a duly licensed business or commercial
enterprise operated and conducted pursuant to law when such parking or storing
of vehicles is necessary to the operation of the business or commercial
enterprise.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 519.04 NOTICE REQUIRING REMOVAL.
   Whenever it appears that a violation of the provisions of this article
exists, the Chief of Police or Mayor shall give, or cause to be given, written
notice to the registered owner of any motor vehicle which is in violation of
this article, and shall give such notice to the owner or person in lawful
possession or control of the private property upon which such vehicle is
located, advising that the vehicle violates the provisions of this article and
directing that the vehicle be moved to a place of lawful storage within ten
days or that, within ten days, the vehicle be housed within a building. Such
notice may be served upon the registered owner of the vehicle in person or by
mail, addressed to the owner at the last known address of record of the
Department of Motor Vehicles. The notice shall be served by mail, addressed to
the owner and resident of such property according to the last town records and
a copy of such notice shall be conspicuously posted upon the premises.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 519.05 JURISDICTION TO HEAR CASES.
   The Municipal Police Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine all
cases brought under this article.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 519.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §
519.03 of this article shall be fined not more than $500.
   (b)   For whoever is in violation of this article, the Nutter Fort Police
Department will have the authority to go onto the private property in question
and remove said vehicles at the cost of the owner. This will only be done after
the notices are sent and fines are assessed.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 521: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
521.01   Definitions
   
521.02   Article not applicable to certain uses by physicians, druggists and
others
   
521.03   Prohibited acts generally
   
521.04   Unlawful sale or possession by alcoholic liquor licensee
   
521.05   Unlawful purchase of alcoholic liquors from state agency
   
521.06   Intoxication or drinking in public places; illegal possession
   
521.07   Acts prohibited by non-intoxicating beer licensee
   
521.08   Unlawful purchase of non-intoxicating beer
   
521.09   Acts prohibited by private club licensee
   
521.10   Unlawful purchase from private club
   
521.11   Acts prohibited by wine dealers
   
521.12   Unlawful purchase of wine
   
521.13   Unlawful purchase from retail liquor licensee
 
   
521.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to regulate liquor sales, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(20)
   Local option, see W.Va. Code Art. 60-5
   Non-intoxicating beer, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-16
   Public drunkenness, see Part Five, §
517.05
   Search warrants, see W.Va. Code § 60-6-18
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 521.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the following definitions shall apply.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, beer, wine and spirits, and any liquid
or solid capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include non-
intoxicating beer.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops or any
other similar product or substitute, and containing more alcohol than that of
non-intoxicating beer.
   INTOXICATED. Having one’s faculties impaired by alcohol or other drugs to
the point where physical or mental control or both are markedly diminished.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacture of any alcoholic liquor,
including, among others, a distiller, rectifier, wine maker and brewer.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER. All cereal malt beverages or products of the brewing
industry commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale and all other mixtures
and preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt coolers and
containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume, but not more than 4.2% of alcohol
by weight, or 6% by volume, whichever is greater, all of which are hereby
declared to be non-intoxicating and the word “liquor”, as used in this article,
shall not be construed to include or embrace non-intoxicating beer, nor any of
the beverages, products, mixtures or preparation included within this
definition.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation
or voluntary association.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, building or conveyance to which the public has or
is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel
dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels, and any highway, street, lane,
park or place of public resort or amusement. PUBLIC PLACE does not mean or
include any of the above-named places or any portion or portions thereof which
qualify and are licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 60 or the
codified ordinances to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means, for a
consideration, and includes all sales made by any principal, proprietor, agent
or employee.
   SELLING. Includes the solicitation or receipt of orders, possession for sale
and possession with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
(W.Va. Code § 60-1-5)
§ 521.02 ARTICLE NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES BY PHYSICIANS, DRUGGISTS AND
OTHERS.
   The provisions of this article shall not prevent:
   (a)   A physician from prescribing the use of alcoholic liquors when
necessary for a bona fide patient;
   (b)   A druggist from selling, upon a prescription properly issued by a
physician, alcoholic liquors for medicinal purposes;
   (c)   A physician, dentist or veterinarian, in the legitimate practice of
his or her profession, from using and administering alcoholic liquors;
   (d)   Hospitals, sanitariums or that division of any institution which is
regularly conducted as a hospital, dispensary or infirmary from using or
administering alcoholic liquors to bona fide patients. Institutions and the
divisions thereof provided in this section may carry a stock of alcoholic
liquors sufficient for this purpose; and
   (e)   Religious organizations from using wine for sacramental purposes.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-5)
§ 521.03 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Manufacture or sell in the town, without a license, any alcoholic
liquor, except as permitted by W.Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (b)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
license, except as permitted by W.Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (c)   Sell without a license any alcoholic liquor other than provided by
W.Va. Code Art. 60-6;
   (d)   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug, methyl
alcohol, crude, unrectified or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or any other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
   (e)   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in which
alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in the state;
   (f)   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in the state, except in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
   (g)   Distribute, deal in, process or use crowns, stamps or seals required
under the authority of W.Va. Code Ch. 60, except in accordance with the rules
and regulations prescribed by the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-7)
   (h)   Manufacture, sell, give or offer to make a sale or gift of, transport
or otherwise possess any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer except as
permitted by W.Va. Code Ch. 11 and 60; and
   (i)   Whoever violates subsections (a) to (g) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
§ 521.04 UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION BY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   No person licensed under W.Va. Code Ch. 60 shall:
   (a)   Sell alcoholic liquors of a kind other than that which is permissible
under W.Va. Code Ch. 60;
   (b)   Sell beer to which wine, spirits or alcohol has been added;
   (c)   Sell wine to which other alcoholic spirits have been added, otherwise
than as required in the manufacture thereof under regulations of the West
Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner;
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-8)
   (d)   (1)   Sell alcoholic liquors or non-intoxicating beer to a person who
is:
         (a)   Less than 21 years of age;
         (b)   An habitual drunkard;
         (c)   Intoxicated;
         (d)   Addicted to the use of any controlled substance as defined by
W.Va. Code Ch. 60A; or
         (e)   Mentally incompetent.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to a violation of subsection (d)(1)(a) above
if the seller shows that the purchaser:
         (a)   Produced written evidence which showed his or her age to be at
least the required age for purchase and which bore a physical description of
the person named on the writing which reasonably described the purchaser; or
         (b)   Produced evidence of other facts that reasonably indicated at
the time of sale that the purchaser was at least the required age.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3-22)
   (e)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license any alcoholic
liquor other than that which is authorized by W.Va. Code Ch. 60.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-8)
§ 521.05 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS FROM STATE AGENCY.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Being under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency, misrepresent his or
her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which
is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency; and
   (b)   Knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under the age of 21
years to whom they are not related by blood or marriage, any alcoholic liquors
from whatever source.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3-22a)
§ 521.06 INTOXICATION OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer or have an open
container of alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in or on any public
sidewalk, walkway, entranceway, street, lane or other public place;
      (3)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in a motor vehicle
on any highway, street, alley or in a public garage. No person shall possess an
open container of non-intoxicating beer or alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle,
except in a place which can be reached only by leaving the vehicle;
      (4)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor to another person in a public
place;
      (5)    Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of ten gallons,
in containers not bearing stamps or seals of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner, without having first obtained written authority from the
Commissioner therefor; and/or
      (6)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W.Va. Code Ch. 60.
   (b)   Whoever violates subsections (a)(5) or (a)(6) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-9)
§ 521.07 ACTS PROHIBITED BY NON-INTOXICATING BEER LICENSEE.
   (a)   No licensee under W.Va. Code Art. 11-16, his, her, its or their
servants, agents or employees shall sell, give or dispense, and no individual
shall drink or consume, in or on any licensed premises or in any rooms directly
connected therewith, non-intoxicating beer or cooler on weekdays between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00
p.m. on any Sunday, except in private clubs licensed under the provisions of
W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, where the hours shall conform with the hours of sale of
alcoholic liquors.
   (b)   No licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or employees
shall sell, furnish or give any non-intoxicating beer as defined in this
article to any person visibly or noticeably intoxicated, or to any person known
to be insane or known to be a habitual drunkard.
   (c)   No licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or employees,
shall sell, furnish or give any non-intoxicating beer as defined in this
article to any person who is less than 21 years of age.
   (d)   No distributor shall sell or offer to sell, and no retailer shall
purchase or receive, any non-intoxicating beer as defined in this article,
except for cash; and no right of action shall exist to collect any claims for
credit extended contrary to the provisions of this subsection (d). Nothing
herein contained shall prohibit a licensee from crediting to a purchaser the
actual price charged for packages or containers returned by the original
purchaser as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any purchaser the
amount paid or deposited for such containers when title is retained by the
vendor.
   (e)   No brewer or distributor or brewpub or his, her, its or their agents,
shall transport or deliver non-intoxicating beer, as defined in this article,
to any retail licensee on Sunday.
   (f)   No brewer or distributor shall give, furnish, rent or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs or supplies directly or indirectly or through a
subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products of the
brewing industry at retail, or offer any prize, premium, gift or other similar
inducement, except advertising matter of nominal value, to either trade or
consumer buyers: provided that a distributor may offer, for sale or rent, tanks
of carbonic gas. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit a brewer from
sponsoring any professional or amateur athletic event or from providing prizes
or awards for participants and winners in any such events; provided, however,
that, no such event shall be sponsored which permits actual participation by
athletes or other persons who are minors, unless specifically authorized by the
non-intoxicating Beer Commissioner.
   (g)   No licensee shall permit in his or her premises any lewd, immoral or
improper entertainment, conduct or practice.
   (h)   No licensee, except the holder of a license to operate a private club
issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, or a holder of a license
for a private wine restaurant issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art.
60-8, shall possess a federal license, tax receipt or other permit entitling,
authorizing or allowing such licensee to sell liquor or alcoholic drinks other
than non- intoxicating beer.
   (i)   No licensee shall obstruct the view of the interior of his or her
premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes or any means which would prevent plain
view of the patrons occupying such premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times; provided that, provisions of
this subsection (i) shall not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer, the
premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-
7, or the premises of a private wine restaurant licensed under the provisions
of W.Va. Code Art. 60-8.
   (j)   No licensee shall manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter, possess or
acquiesce in the sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic liquors on
the premises covered by such license or on premises directly or indirectly used
in connection therewith; provided that, the prohibition contained in this
subsection (j) with respect to the selling or possessing or to the acquiescence
in the sale, possession or consumption of alcoholic liquors shall not be
applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private club
issued under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, nor shall the prohibition
be applicable to a private wine restaurant licensed under the provisions of
W.Va. Code Art. 60-8, insofar as such private wine restaurant is authorized to
serve wine.
   (k)   No retail licensee shall sell or dispense non-intoxicating beer, as
defined in this article, purchased or acquired from any source other than a
distributor, brewer or manufacturer licensed under the laws of the state.
   (l)   No licensee shall permit loud, boisterous or disorderly conduct of any
kind upon his or her premises or permit the use of loud musical instruments if
either or any of the same may disturb the peace and quietude of the community
wherein such business is located; provided that, no licensee shall have in
connection with his or her place of business any loudspeaker located on the
outside of the licensed premises that broadcasts or carries music of any kind.
   (m)   No person whose license has been revoked, shall obtain employment with
any retailer within the period of one year from the date of such revocation,
and no retailer shall employ knowingly any such person within such time.
   (n)   No distributor shall sell, possess for sale, transport or distribute
non-intoxicating beer, except in the original container.
   (o)   No licensee shall knowingly permit any act to be done upon the
licensed premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws
of the state or municipality.
   (p)   No Class B retailer shall permit the consumption of non-intoxicating
beer upon his or her licensed premises.
   (q)   No Class A licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or
employees, or any licensee by or through such servants, agents or employees,
shall allow or permit any person less than 18 years of age to loiter in or upon
any licensed premises; except, however, that, the provisions of this subsection
(q) shall not apply where such person under the age of 18 years is in or upon
such premises in the immediate company of his or her parent or parents, or
where and while such person under the age of 18 years is in or upon such
premises for the purpose of and actually making a lawful purchase of any items
or commodities therein sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving any
lawful service therein rendered, including the consumption of any item of food,
drink or soft drink therein lawfully prepared and served or sold for
consumption on such premises.
   (r)   No distributor shall sell, offer for sale, distribute or deliver any
non-intoxicating beer outside the territory assigned to such distributor by the
brewer or manufacturer of such non-intoxicating beer or sell, offer for sale,
distribute or deliver any such non-intoxicating beer to any retailer whose
principal place of business or licensed premises is within the assigned
territory of another distributor of such non-intoxicating beer; provided that,
nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit sales of convenience between
distributors licensed in the state wherein one such distributor sells,
transfers or delivers to another such distributor a particular brand or brands
for sale at wholesale.
   (s)   No licensee or any agent, servant or employee of any such licensee
shall knowingly violate any rule or regulation lawfully promulgated by the
Commissioner.
   (t)   Any person who violates any provision of this section, or any rule,
regulation or order lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner, or who makes any
false statement concerning any material fact in submitting application for
license or for a renewal of a license or in any hearing concerning the
revocation thereof, or who commits any of the acts herein declared to be
unlawful, shall be punished as provided in §
521.99 of this article.
   (u)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in such
licensee’s lawful employ, including the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating
beer, as defined in this article. With the prior approval of the Commissioner,
a licensee whose principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or
the providing of recreation activities, including, but not limited to,
nationally franchised fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling
alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores,
may employ persons who are less than 18 years of age, but at least 16 years of
age; provided that, such person’s duties shall not include the sale or delivery
of non-intoxicating beer or alcoholic liquors; provided, however, that, the
authorization to employ such persons under the age of 18 years shall be clearly
indicated on the licensee’s license.
(W.Va. Code § 11-16-18)
§ 521.08 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   (a)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess or serve non-intoxicating beer.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating beer.
Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18, but at least 16, years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores; provided that, such
person shall not sell or deliver non-intoxicating beer.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection (a) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer when
he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of
any member of a state, federal or local law-enforcement agency or the West
Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of purchasing non-
intoxicating beer, shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose
present or offer any written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his or her own, or shall illegally attempt to purchase non-
intoxicating beer.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish non-intoxicating
beer to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom they are not related by blood
or marriage.
(W.Va. Code § 11-16-19)
§ 521.09 ACTS PROHIBITED BY PRIVATE CLUB LICENSEE.
   (a)   No person licensed under W.Va. Code Art. 60-7, or his or her agent,
employee or member thereof, on such licensee’s premises shall:
      (1)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors other than from the
original package or container;
      (2)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace; obscene, lewd,
immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice; gambling or any slot
machine, multiple-coin console machine, multiple-coin console slot machine or
device in the nature of a slot machine;
      (3)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any non- intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors for or to, or permit
the consumption of non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors on the
licensee’s premises, by any person less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any non- intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, for or to any person
known to be deemed legally incompetent, or for or to any person who is
physically incapacitated due to consumption of non- intoxicating beer, wine or
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
      (5)   Sell, give or dispense non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors in or on any licensed premises or in any rooms directly connected
therewith, between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday;
      (6)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises
any non- intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, covered by this article,
to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (7)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change or misrepresent the
quality, quantity or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
      (8)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member;
      (9)   (a)   Employ any person who is less than 18 years of age in a
position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish or give non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors to any person;
         (b)   Employ any person who is between the ages of 18 and 21 who is
not directly supervised by a person aged 21 or over in a position where the
primary responsibility for such employment is to sell, furnish or give non-
intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors to any person; or
      (10)   Violate any reasonable rule or regulation of the Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner.
   (b)   No licensee shall advertise in any news media or other means, outside
of the licensee’s premises, the fact that alcoholic liquors may be purchased
thereat.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12)
§ 521.10 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM PRIVATE CLUB.
   (a)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee or consume any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors purchased from a private club licensee or possess any non-intoxicating
beer, wine or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee; provided that,
nothing in this subsection (a) shall prohibit a person who is at least 18 years
of age from purchasing or possessing non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and
control of any member of a state, federal or local law-enforcement agency or
the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is
conducting an investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of
the alcohol beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the
Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors from a private club licensee,
misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written
evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or
illegally attempt to purchase non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
from a licensee.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 years any non-intoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
§ 521.11 ACTS PROHIBITED BY WINE DEALERS.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (a)   For a distributor to sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired from
any source other than a person registered under the provisions of W.Va. Code §
60-8-6, or for a retailer to sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired from
any source other than a licensed distributor or a farm winery, as defined in
W.Va. Code § 60-1-5a;
   (b)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for by the provisions of W.Va.
Code Art. 60-8, for a licensee under W.Va. Code Art. 60-8 to acquire,
transport, possess for sale or sell wine other than in the original package;
   (c)   For a licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees to sell,
furnish or give wine to any person less than 21 years of age or to a mental
incompetent or person who is physically incapacitated due to the consumption of
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
   (d)   For a licensee to permit a person who is less than 18 years of age to
sell, furnish or give wine to any person;
   (e)   For a distributor to sell or deliver any brand of wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than the primary source of supply of the wine
which granted the distributor the right to sell such brand at wholesale. For
the purposes of this article, PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY means the vintner of the
wine, the importer of a foreign wine who imports the wine into the United
States, the owner of a wine at the time it becomes a marketable product, the
bottler of a wine or an agent specifically authorized by any of the above
enumerated persons to make a sale of the wine to a West Virginia distributor;
provided that, no retailer shall sell or deliver wine purchased or acquired
from any source other than a distributor licensed as such in the state;
provided, however, that, nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit sales of
convenience between distributors licensed in the state wherein one such
distributor sells, transfers or delivers to another such distributor a
particular brand or brands for sale at wholesale of which brand or brands such
other distributor may be temporarily out of stock. The Alcohol Beverage
Commissioner shall promulgate such rules or regulations as may be necessary to
carry this subsection (e) into effect;
   (f)   For a person to violate any reasonable rule or regulation promulgated
by the Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner under W.Va. Code Art. 60-8; and
   (g)   Nothing in this article, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in any licensee’s
lawful employment, including the sale or delivery of wine under the provisions
of this article. With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores, may employ persons who
are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age; provided that, such
person’s duties shall not include the sale or delivery of non-intoxicating beer
or alcoholic liquors; provided, however, that, the authorization to employ such
persons, under the age of 18 years shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s
license.
(W.Va. Code § 60-8-20)
§ 521.12 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF WINE.
   (a)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess or serve wine or other alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of wine. Further, nothing
in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Commissioner, shall prevent
or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less than 18, but at least 16, years
of age from being employed by a licensee whose principal business is the sale
of food or consumer goods or the providing of recreational activities,
including, but not limited to, nationally franchised fast food outlets, family-
oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery
stores and convenience stores; provided that, such person shall not sell or
deliver wine or alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection (a) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing wine or alcoholic liquor
when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control
of any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West
Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
wine or other alcoholic liquors from a licensee, shall misrepresent his or her
age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is
false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase wine or other alcoholic liquors.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish wine or other
alcoholic liquors from any source to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom
they are not related by blood or marriage.
(W.Va. Code § 60-8-20a)
§ 521.13 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (a)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, serve or possess alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nothing is this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
a licensee which includes the sale and serving of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this subsection (a) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor when he or
she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any
member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West Virginia
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (b)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, for the purpose of
purchasing liquor from a retail licensee, misrepresent his or her age, or for
such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to purchase
liquor from a retail licensee.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 to whom he or she is not related by blood or marriage any liquor
from whatever source.
   (d)   No person while on the premises of a retail outlet shall consume
liquor or break the seal on any package or bottle of liquor.
(W.Va. Code § 60-3A-24)
§ 521.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates §§
521.05(a),
521.08(b),
521.12(b) or
521.13(b) of this article shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for
not more than 72 hours, or both, or, in lieu of such fine and imprisonment,
may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for not more than one year.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
521.05(b),
521.08(c),
521.12(c) or
521.13(c) or (d) of this article shall be fined not more than $100, or
imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both.
(W.Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-3-22a, 60-3A-24, 60-8-20a)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
521.06(a) shall be sentenced in accordance with the following options:
      (1)   Upon first offense, a fine of not more than $100 and not more than
30 days in jail or completion of an alcohol education program of not more than
six hours’ duration at the nearest community mental health-mental retardation
center. If the individual, prior to conviction, agrees to voluntarily attend
the alcohol education program, the judge may delay sentencing until the program
is completed and upon completion may dismiss the charges;
      (2)   Upon conviction for a second offense, a fine of not more than $100
and not more than 30 days in jail or completion of not less than five hours of
alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental health-mental retardation
center; and
      (3)   Upon third and subsequent convictions, a fine of not more than $100
and not less than five, nor more than 30, days in jail or a fine of not more
than $100 and completion of not less than five hours of alcoholism counseling
at the nearest community mental health-mental retardation center; provided
that, three convictions for public intoxication within the preceding six months
shall be considered evidence of alcoholism: provided, however, that, for the
educational counseling programs described in this subsection (c), the community
mental health-mental retardation center may charge each participant its usual
and customary fee and shall certify in writing to the referring judicial
officer the completion or failure to complete the prescribed program for each
individual. A person charged with a violation of §
521.06(a) of this article who is an alcoholic shall be found not guilty by
reason of addiction and proper disposition made pursuant to W.Va. Code Art. 27-
5 and 27-6A.
   (d)   Whoever violates §
521.06(b) of this article shall be fined not more than $100, or confined in
jail not more than 30 days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-9)
   (e)   Whoever violates §
521.06 of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense and shall
be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 60-6-9)
   (f)   Whoever violates §§
521.08(a),
521.12(a) or
521.13(a) of this article shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than 72 hours, or both, or in lieu thereof, may, for the first offense, be
placed on probation for a period not to exceed one year.
(W.Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-3A-24, 60-8-20a)
   (g)   Whoever violates §
521.09 of this article shall be fined not less than $500 or more than $1,000,
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12)
   (h)   Whoever violates §
521.10(a) or (b) of this article shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition may, for the first
offense be placed on probation for a period not to exceed one year.
   (i)   Whoever violates §
521.10(c) of this article shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than ten days, or both.
(W.Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 525: MINORS
Section
   
525.01   Contributing to delinquency or neglect of minor
   
525.02   Cruelty to children
   
525.03   Parental liability for acts of children
   
525.04   Abandoned air-tight containers
   
525.05   Curfew
 
   
525.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Contributing to delinquency of minor, see W.Va. Code §§ 49-4-903, 49-4-904,
61-8D-10
   “Delinquent child” defined, see W.Va. Code § 49-1-202
   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court, see W.Va. Code § 49-4-701
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 525.01 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OR NEGLECT OF MINOR.
   No person shall by any act or omission contribute to, encourage or tend to
cause the delinquency or neglect of any child, including, but not limited to,
aiding or encouraging any such child to habitually or continually refuse to
respond, without just cause, to the lawful supervision of such child’s parent,
guardian or custodian or to be habitually absent from school without just
cause.
§ 525.02 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon, any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody or control of any minor child, shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (b)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the need
for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
§ 525.03 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (a)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W.Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of such minor:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether such property be real, personal or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT OR PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor is living, or a divorced or separated
parent who does not have legal custody, but who is exercising supervisory
control over the minor at the time of the minor’s act.
   (c)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall include,
but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county commission
and board of education or other political subdivision of the state or any
person or organization of any kind or character. The action may be brought in
magistrate or other court of competent jurisdiction. Recovery hereunder shall
be limited to the actual damages, based upon direct out-of-pocket loss, taxable
court costs and interest from date of judgment. The right of action and remedy
granted herein shall be in addition to and not exclusive of any rights of
action and remedies therefor against a parent or parents for the tortious acts
of his or their children heretofore existing under the provisions of any law,
statutory or otherwise, or now so existing independently of the provisions of
this section.
(W.Va. Code § 55-7A-2)
§ 525.04 ABANDONED AIR-TIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance or other
air-tight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(W.Va. Code § 61-2-26)
§ 525.05 CURFEW.
   (a)   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle, wander or play
in or upon the streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following days; provided that, the provisions
of this section shall not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or
while the minor is legally employed and is going to or from the place of such
employment or is engaged in the duties thereof.
   (b)   No minor under the age of 15 years shall loiter, idle, wander or play
in or upon the streets, highways, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following days; provided that, the provisions
of this section shall not apply to a minor accompanied by his parent, guardian
or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor, or while the
minor is legally employed and is going to or from the place of such employment
or is engaged in the duties thereof.
   (c)   Any minor violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed a
delinquent child under the provisions of state law and shall be dealt with as
such under the provisions of state law.
   (d)   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly permit such minor to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day; provided that, the provisions of this section shall not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or when the minor is lawfully
employed and is going to or from the place of such employment or is engaged in
the duties thereof.
   (e)   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor under the age of 15 years shall knowingly permit such minor to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playground or other public grounds, public places and
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day; provided that, the provisions of this section shall not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, or when the minor is lawfully
employed and is going to or from the place of such employment or is engaged in
the duties thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-10-1986)
§ 525.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
525.04 of this article shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 529: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
   
529.01   Assault and battery
   
529.02   Assault and battery on school employees
   
529.03   Sale of hypodermic syringes and needles regulated
 
   
529.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Harassing telephone calls, see Part Five, §
517.06
   Intoxication or drinking in public places, see Part Five, §
521.06
   State law provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-2
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see W.Va. Code Ch. 60A
§ 529.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (a)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act which places another in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
   (b)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature with the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(W.Va. Code § 61-2-9)
§ 529.02 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   No person shall commit an assault by unlawfully attempting to commit a
violent injury to the person of a school employee or by unlawfully committing
an act which places a school employee in reasonable apprehension of immediately
receiving a violent injury.
   (b)   No person shall commit a battery by unlawfully and intentionally
making physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with the person of
a school employee or by unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a
school employee.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, SCHOOL EMPLOYEE means a person
employed by the Board of Education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis or otherwise, if at the time of the commission of any
offense provided for in this section, such person is engaged in the performance
of his or her duties or is commuting to or from his or her place of employment.
For the purposes of this section, a SCHOOL EMPLOYEE shall be deemed to include
a student teacher.
(W.Va. Code § 61-2-15)
§ 529.03 SALE OF HYPODERMIC SYRINGES AND NEEDLES REGULATED.
   The following regulations are hereby granted in regulating the sale of
hypodermic syringes and needles.
   (a)   No hypodermic needle, syringe, or similar device, or disposable
hypodermic needle, syringe, or similar device which may be for subcutaneous
injection, or for administering any drug or other substance in the human body,
shall be sold or dispensed to any person except by prescription, either written
or oral, as follows:
      (1)   Upon a written prescription of a practitioner licensed by law to
administer drugs;
      (2)   Upon an oral prescription of such practitioner which is reduced
promptly to writing and filed by the pharmacist; or
      (3)   By refilling any such written or oral prescription, if such
refilling is authorized by the prescriber, either in the original prescription
or by oral order which is reduced to writing and filed by the pharmacist. All
such pharmacists or legalized dispensers of such paraphernalia including, but
not limited to, the name of the purchaser, requiring adequate identification
thereof, the address of purchaser, date of sale, type of instrument sold and
number sold.
   (b)   No person except a manufacturer of, or wholesaler, or a retail dealer,
in surgical instruments, apothecary, physician, dentist, hospital,
veterinarian, nurse, industrial corporation, educational institution or intern
shall at any time have or possess a hypodermic syringe or needle or disposable
hypodermic syringe or needle or any instrument or implement adapted for the use
of habit- forming drugs by subcutaneous injection, which is possessed for the
purposes of administering habit- forming drugs, unless such possession be
authorized by the prescription of a physician issued in accordance with
subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the sale of any
hypodermic syringe, needle or similar device, or disposable hypodermic needle,
syringe or similar device to hospitals, physicians, dentists, pharmacists,
industrial corporations and educational institutions or embalmers, or others
using such device in the legal course of their respective business or
profession; provided, nevertheless, that such vendors or legalized dispensers
shall keep or cause to be kept accurate records for such sales.
(Ord. passed 10-8-2019)
§ 529.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §§
529.01(a) or
529.02(a) of this article shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 533: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
533.01   Shoplifting
   
533.02   Trespass
   
533.03   Petit larceny
   
533.04   Dealing with stolen goods
   
533.05   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
533.06   Tampering with and theft of utilities; CATV
   
533.07   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk and the like
   
533.08   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
 
   
533.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to regulate advertising, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(31)
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   State law provisions, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-3
§ 533.01 SHOPLIFTING.
   (a)   General definitions.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuffs, wares or personal property or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held or offered
for sale or a shopping cart.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents or other agents.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of the merchandise,
or in the event of altering, transferring or removing a price marking or
causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail
value of the merchandise, as defined in subsection (b) below, the difference
between the merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the altered price.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-6)
   (b)   “Shoplifting” defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of shoplifting if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         (a)   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         (b)   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         (c)   Alters, transfers or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         (d)   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         (e)   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise; or
         (f)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-1)
   (c)   Breach of peace; detention. An act of shoplifting, as defined herein,
is hereby declared to constitute a breach of peace and any owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, or any law enforcement officer who
has reasonable ground to believe that a person has committed shoplifting, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time
not to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of investigating whether or not such
person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting. Such reasonable
detention shall not constitute an arrest, nor shall it render the owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, liable to the person detained.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-4)
   (d)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         (b)   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         (c)   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-2)
   (e)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         (a)   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         (b)   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
         (c)   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not
including the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile
establishment or any merchant in connection with the apprehension and
processing of the suspect; and
         (d)   In all cases, for a penalty to be paid to the mercantile
establishment in the amount of $50 or double the value of the merchandise,
whichever is higher.
      (2)   Costs and attorneys’ fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party
under this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by subsection (f) below is not entitled to recover the penalty
imposed by this section.
      (4)   Right to demand payment. The fact that a mercantile establishment
may bring an action against an individual as provided in this section does not
limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in writing, that a
person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this section remit such
damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal action.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
   (f)   Penalty. A person convicted of shoplifting shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
         (a)   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500,
the defendant shall be fined not more than $250; and
         (b)   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, and such fine shall not
be suspended; or the defendant shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (2)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
         (a)   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500,
the defendant shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, and such
fine shall not be suspended; or the defendant shall be confined in jail not
more than 30 days, or both; and
         (b)   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined not less than $500 and shall be confined in jail not more than
30 days.
      (3)   Mandatory penalty. In addition to the fines and imprisonment
imposed by this section, in all cases of conviction for the offense of
shoplifting, the court shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the
mercantile establishment involved in the amount of $50, or double the value of
the merchandise involved, whichever is higher. The mercantile establishment
shall be entitled to collect such mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil
judgment. This penalty shall be in addition to the mercantile establishment’s
rights to recover the stolen merchandise.
      (4)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior shoplifting
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3A-3)
§ 533.02 TRESPASS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car, railroad engine,
trailer, aircraft or sleeping car, and “to enter a conveyance” includes taking
apart any portion of the conveyance.
      CULTIVATED LAND. The land which has been cleared of its natural
vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture or
trees or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
      ENCLOSED AND POSTED. Where lands are posted, cultivated or fenced, as
described herein, then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be
considered as ENCLOSED AND POSTED.
      FENCED LAND. The land which has been enclosed by a fence of substantial
construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron, steel, barbed
wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three feet in height.
For the purpose of this section, it shall not be necessary to fence any
boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water and is
posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      IN THE COURSE OF COMMITTING. If it occurs in an attempt to commit the
offense or in flight after the attempt or commission.
      POSTED LAND. The land upon which reasonably maintained signs are placed
not more than 500 feet apart along and at each corner of the boundaries of the
land upon which signs there appears prominently in letters of not less than two
inches in height the words “no trespassing” and, in addition thereto, the name
of the owner, lessee or occupant of the land. The signs shall be placed along
the boundary line of posted land in a manner and in a position as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line. It shall not be necessary to give
notice by posting on any enclosed land or place not exceeding five acres in
area on which there is a dwelling house or property that by its nature and use
is obviously private in order to obtain the benefits of this section pertaining
to trespass on enclosed lands.
      STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent, which
has a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
      TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in or under the property
of another, but shall not include the following:
         (a)   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions or by the
officers, agencies or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law;
         (b)   The exercise of rights in, under or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement whether by written or prescriptive right;
         (c)   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry;
         (d)   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under or upon such property; and
         (e)   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3B-I)
   (b)   Trespass in structure or conveyance. Any person who knowingly enters
in, upon or under a structure or conveyance without being authorized, licensed
or invited, or having been authorized, licensed or invited is requested to
depart by the owner, tenant or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses
to do so, shall be fined not more than $100. If the offender is armed with a
firearm or other dangerous weapon while in the structure or conveyance, with
the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being in such
structure or conveyance at the time the offender knowingly trespasses, such
offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions of W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be
subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99(a) of this part.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3B-2)
   (c)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
      (1)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing or cultivation,
shall be fined not more than $100.
      (2)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally communicated
to him or her by the owner, tenant or agent of such owner or tenant, or if the
offender opens any door, fence or gate, and thereby exposes animals, crops or
other property to waste, destruction or freedom, or causes any damage to
property by such trespassing on property other than a structure or conveyance,
he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99(a) of this part.
      (3)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being
during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other than
a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of W.Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or fined not more
than $100, or both.
      (4)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the amount of twice
the amount of such damage; provided that, the provisions of this section shall
not apply in a labor dispute.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3B-3)
§ 533.03 PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny, as defined in W.Va. Code § 61-3-13,
within the town.
§ 533.04 DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-18)
§ 533.05 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (b)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-30)
§ 533.06 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES; CATV.
   (a)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire or other conductor of gas, water or
electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice or any other
device, by or at which gas, water or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and no person, with like intent, shall injure or
alter any gas, water or electric meter, or obstruct its action.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-44)
   (b)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor or other instrument
with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas or electric energy, without the
knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-3-45)
   (c)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (d)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for distribution of
television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound or other transmission.
§ 533.07 UTTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk or any substance or material which
is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious or dangerous to the public
health, comfort or safety.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
§ 533.08 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade or
warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to prevent
injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
§ 533.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
533.05(b) of this article shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99 of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 545: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
545.01   Definitions
   
545.02   Carrying concealed deadly weapons without license
   
545.03   Exceptions as to prohibitions against carrying concealed deadly
weapons
   
545.04   Persons prohibited from possession of deadly weapons
   
545.05   Possession of deadly weapons by minors prohibited
   
545.06   Possession of machine guns
   
545.07   Display or sale of deadly weapons
   
545.08   Brandishing deadly weapons
   
545.09   Reserved
   
545.10   Fireworks sale, possession and discharge
   
545.11   Discharging firearms
   
545.12   Throwing or shooting missiles
 
   
545.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority to prohibit carrying weapons, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(16)
   Dangerous weapons, see W.Va. Code Art. 61-7
   Limitations on power to restrict ownership, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5a
   See sectional histories for similar state law
§ 545.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLACKJACK. A short bludgeon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased
piece of lead or some other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or
springy shaft which increases the force of impact when a person or object is
struck. BLACKJACK includes, but is not limited to, a billy, billy club, sand
club, sandbag or slapjack.
   CONCEALED. Hidden from ordinary observation so as to prevent disclosure or
recognition. A deadly weapon is CONCEALED when it is carried on or about the
person in such a manner that another person in the ordinary course of events
would not be placed on notice that the deadly weapon was being carried.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in
W.Va. Code § 60A-1-101(e).
   DEADLY WEAPON. An instrument which is designed to be used to produce serious
bodily injury or death, or is readily adaptable to such use. The term DEADLY
WEAPON includes, but is not limited to, the instruments defined in herein, or
other deadly weapons of like kind or character which may be easily concealed on
or about the person.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W.Va. Code § 60A-
1-101(m).
   FIREARM. Any weapon which will expel a projectile by action of an explosion.
   GRAVITY KNIFE. Any knife that has a blade released from the handle by the
force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force, and when so released
is locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever or other locking or
catching device.
   KNIFE. An instrument, intended to be used or readily adaptable to be used as
a weapon, consisting of a sharp-edged or sharp-pointed blade, usually made of
steel, attached to a handle, which is capable of inflicting cutting, stabbing
or tearing wounds. KNIFE includes, but is not limited to, any dagger, dirk,
poniard or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half inches in length, any
switchblade knife or gravity knife, and any other instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing or tearing wounds. A pocket knife with a blade
three and one-half inches or less in length, a hunting or fishing knife carried
for hunting, fishing, sports or other recreational uses or a knife designed for
use as a tool or household implement shall not be included within the term
KNIFE, as defined herein, unless such knife is knowingly used or intended to be
used to produce serious bodily injury or death.
   METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES. A set of finger rings attached to a transverse
piece, to be worn over the front of the hand for use as a weapon, and
constructed in such a manner that, when striking another person with the fist
or closed hand, considerable physical damage may be inflicted upon the person
struck. The term METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES includes any such instrument,
without reference to the metal or other substance or substances from which the
metallic or false knuckles are made.
   NUNCHUKA. A flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts,
connected by a chain, cable, rope or other non-rigid, flexible or springy
material, constructed in such a manner as to allow the rigid parts to swing
freely, so that one rigid part may be used as a handle and the other rigid part
may be used as the striking end.
   PISTOL. A short firearm having a chamber which is integral with the barrel,
designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   REVOLVER. A short firearm having a cylinder of several chambers that are
brought successively into line with the barrel to be discharged, designed to be
aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   SWITCHBLADE KNIFE. Any knife having a spring-operated blade which opens
automatically upon pressure being applied to a button, catch or other releasing
device in its handle.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-2)
§ 545.02 CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS WITHOUT LICENSE.
   (a)   No person shall carry a concealed deadly weapon, without a state
license or other lawful authorization established under the provisions of W.Va.
Code §§ 61-7-4 et seq.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-3)
§ 545.03 EXCEPTIONS AS TO PROHIBITIONS AGAINST CARRYING CONCEALED DEADLY
WEAPONS.
   The licensure provisions set forth in W.Va. Code Art. 61-7 shall not apply
to:
   (a)   Any person carrying a deadly weapon upon his or her own premises; nor
shall anything herein prevent a person from carrying any firearm, unloaded,
from the place of purchase to his or her home, residence or place of business
or to a place of repair and back to his or her home, residence or place of
business, nor shall anything herein prohibit a person from possessing a firearm
while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from his or her home,
residence or place of business to a hunting site, and returning to his or her
home, residence or place of business;
   (b)   Any person who is a member of a properly organized target-shooting
club authorized by law to obtain firearms by purchase or requisition from the
state, or from the United States for the purpose of target practice, from
carrying any pistol, as defined in §
545.01 of this article, unloaded, from his or her home, residence or place of
business to a place of target practice, and from any such place of target
practice back to his or her home, residence or place of business, for using any
such weapon at such place of target practice in training and improving his or
her skill in the use of such weapons;
   (c)   Any law-enforcement officer or law enforcement official, as such are
defined in W.Va. Code § 30-29-1;
   (d)   Any employee of the West Virginia Department of Corrections duly
appointed pursuant to the provisions of state statutes while such employee is
on duty;
   (e)   Any member of the armed forces of the United States or the militia of
the state while such member is on duty; and
   (f)   Any circuit judge, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting
attorney or a duly appointed investigator employed by a prosecuting attorney.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-6)
§ 545.04 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, no person who
has been convicted of a felony; has been discharged under less than honorable
conditions from the armed forces of the United States; has been adjudicated as
a mental incompetent or has been committed involuntarily to a mental
institution; is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States; or is
addicted to alcohol, a controlled substance or a drug, or is an unlawful user
thereof shall have in his or her possession any firearm or other deadly weapon;
provided that, any person prohibited from possessing a firearm or other deadly
weapon by the provisions of this section may petition the circuit court of the
county in which he or she resides and if the court finds by clear and
convincing evidence that such person is competent and capable of exercising the
responsibility concomitant with the possession of a firearm or other deadly
weapon the court may enter an order allowing such person to possess such weapon
if such would not violate any federal statute.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-7)
§ 545.05 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a
person under the age of 18 years who is not married or otherwise emancipated
shall not possess or carry concealed or openly any deadly weapon; provided
that, a minor may possess a firearm upon premises owned by such minor or his or
her family or on the premises of another with the permission of his or her
parent or guardian and in the case of property other than his or her own or
that of his or her family, with the permission of the owner or lessee of such
property. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a minor from possessing a
firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from a place where
he or she may lawfully possess a deadly weapon, to a hunting site, and
returning to a place where he or she may lawfully possess such weapon.
   (b)   A violation of this section by a person under the age of 18 years
shall subject the child to the jurisdiction of the circuit court under the
provisions of W.Va. Code §§ 49-4-701 et seq., and such minor may be proceeded
against in the same manner as if he or she had committed an act which if
committed by an adult would be a crime, and may be adjudicated delinquent.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-8)
§ 545.06 POSSESSION OF MACHINE GUNS.
   No person shall carry, transport or have in his or her possession, any
machine gun, submachine gun or any other fully automatic weapon unless he or
she has fully complied with applicable federal statutes and all applicable
rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
relating to such firearms.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-9)
§ 545.07 DISPLAY OR SALE OF DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person shall publicly display and offer for rent or sale, or, where the
person is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
publicly display and offer for rent or sale, to any passers-by on any street,
road or alley, any deadly weapon, machine gun, submachine gun or other fully
automatic weapon, any rifle, shotgun or ammunition for same.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-10)
§ 545.08 BRANDISHING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon, whether licensed to
carry the same or not, shall carry, brandish or use such weapon in a way or
manner to cause, or threaten, a breach of the peace.
(W.Va. Code § 61-7-11)
§ 545.09 RESERVED.
§ 545.10 FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE.
   (a)   FIREWORKS means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, sparklers or other fireworks
of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance;
except that, the term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and model
rocket engines, designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns
or other devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with
the United States Department of Transportation regulations for packing and
shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and toy paper or plastic caps
manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times. Each package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for
retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
(W.Va. Code § 29-3E-2(13))
   (b)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks; provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the State Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs, and
the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every such
display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as to
competency by the State Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section and
W.Va. Code Art. 29-3 and the regulations of the State Fire Commission; provided
that, the municipality shall not be required to file such bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm or
corporation or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character and
form as the State Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the protection of
the public.
(W.Va. Code § 29-3E-6)
§ 545.11 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol or other firearm within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (b)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 545.12 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw, shoot or propel an arrow, missile, pellet, stone,
metal or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to persons or
property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of another, or from
any private property into or onto any public place or the property of another.
This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or instruction, nor
when otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 545.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
501.99(a) of this part for General Code penalty if no specific penalty is
provided.
ARTICLE 549: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
549.01   Title
   
549.02   Intent
   
549.03   Definitions
   
549.04   Legislative findings
   
549.05   Nudity, sexual conduct prohibited in establishments dealing in
alcoholic beverages
   
549.06   Nudity prohibited in public places
   
549.07   Exemptions
   
549.08   Enforcement and penalties
   
549.09   Injunctive relief
   
549.10   Territory embraced
§ 549.01 TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as the “Town of Nutter Fort Public Nudity
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.02 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this ordinance to protect and preserve the health,
safety, welfare and morals of the citizens of Nutter Fort by prohibiting a
person from intentionally or recklessly appearing or being nude, or causing
another person to appear to be nude, in a public place and in other places
which may reasonably be expected to be observed by the public within the Town
of Nutter Fort, except:
   (a)   When such person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for
nudity provided:
      (1)   Such person is nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal
function(s) that is customarily intended to be performed within such place
provided or set apart for nudity; and
      (2)   Such person is not nude for the purpose of obtaining money or other
financial gain for such person or for another person or entity, or:
   (b)   When the conduct of being nude can not legally be prohibited by the
United States or West Virginia Constitution; or
      (2)   Because it is otherwise protected by the United States or West
Virginia Constitutions.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. All distilled spirits and all beverages containing 0.5%
or more alcohol by volume of the standard ethyl alcohol in the beverage and
comparing it with the volume of the remainder of the ingredients as though said
remainder ingredients were distilled water.
   BREAST. A portion of the human female mammary gland (commonly referred to as
the female breast) including the nipple and the areola (the darker colored area
of the breast surrounding the nipple) and an outside area of such gland wherein
such outside area is:
      (1)   Reasonable compact and contiguous to the areola; and
      (2)   Contains at least the nipple and the areola and one-half of the
outside surface area of such gland.
   BUTTOCKS. (For a short general description, see the last sentence of this
subsection.) The area at the rear of the human body (sometimes referred to as
the gluteus maximus) which lies between two imaginary straights lines running
parallel to the ground when a person is standing, the first or top such line
being one-half inch below the top of the vertical cleavage of the nates (in
other words, the prominence formed by the muscles running from the back of the
hip to the back of the leg) and the second or bottom such line being one-half
inch above the lowest point of the curvature of the fleshy protuberance
(sometimes referred to as the “gluteal fold”), and between two imaginary
straight lines, one on each side of the body (the “outside line”), which
outside lines are perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines
described above and which perpendicular outside lines pass through the
outermost point(s) at which each nate meets the outer side of each leg.
Notwithstanding the above, BUTTOCKS shall not include the leg, the hamstring
muscle below the gluteal fold, the tensor fascia latae muscle or any of the
above-described portion of the human body that is between either: (i) the left
inside anus to the left outside line, and the right inside perpendicular line
shall be an imaginary straight line on the right side of the anus (i) that is
perpendicular to the ground and to the horizontal lines described above and
(ii) that is one-third of the distance from the anus to the right outside line.
(The above description can generally be described as covering one-third of the
buttocks centered over the cleavage for the length of the cleavage.)
   ENTITY. Any proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, business
trust, joint venture, joint-stock company or other for profit and/or not for
profit organization.
   ESTABLISHMENT DEALING IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any business, commercial or
other establishment (whether for profit or not for profit and whether open to
the public at large or where entrance is limited by cover charge or membership
requirement) including those licensed by the state for sale and/or service of
alcoholic beverages, and any bottle club; hotel; motel; restaurant; night club;
country club; cabaret; meeting facility utilized by any religious, social
fraternal or similar organization; business, commercial or other establishment
where a product or article is sold, dispensed, served or provided with the
knowledge, actual or implied, that the same will be, or is intended to be
mixed, combined with or drunk in connection or combination with an alcoholic
beverage on the premises or curtilage of said business, commercial or other
establishment; or business, commercial or other establishment where the
consumption of alcoholic beverages is permitted. Premises, or portions thereof
such as hotel rooms used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or
temporary in nature, shall not be deemed to be an ESTABLISHMENT DEALING IN
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   NUDE. Any person insufficiently clothed in any manner so that any of the
following body parts are not entirely covered with a fully opaque covering:
      (1)   The male or female genitals;
      (2)   The male or female pubic area;
      (3)   The female breast (see the last sentence in this subsection); or
      (4)   The buttocks. Attire which is insufficient to comply with this
requirement includes, but is not limited to, G-Strings, T-Backs, dental floss
and thongs.
   PERSON. Any living human being aged ten years of age or older.
   PLACES PROVIDED OR SET APART FOR NUDITY. Enclosed single-sex public
restrooms, enclosed single sex functional shower, locker and/or dressing room
facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms designed and intended for
sleeping accommodations, doctor’s offices, portions of hospitals, and similar
places in which nudity or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected
outside of the home and the sphere of privacy constitutionally protected
therein. This term shall not be deemed to include places where a person’s
conduct of being nude is used for his or her profit or where being nude is used
for the promotion of business or is otherwise commercially exploited.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any location frequented by public, or where the public is
present or likely to be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected
to be observed by members of the public. PUBLIC PLACES include, but are not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial
establishments (whether fro profit or not for profit and whether open to the
public at large or where entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership
requirement), bottle clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants, night clubs, country
clubs, cabarets, and meeting facilities utilized by any religious, social
fraternal or similar organization. Premises, or portions thereof, such as hotel
rooms, used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in
nature shall not be deemed to be a PUBLIC PLACE.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.04 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   In addition and supplemental to the findings and determinations contained in
the ordinance codified herein, it is hereby found by the Council, acting in its
legislative capacity for the purpose of regulating the conduct of appearing
nude in public places and for the purpose of regulating nudity and other
conduct in establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages, that, considering
what has happened in other communities, the acts prohibited in §
549.05 of this article encourage or create the potential for the conduct of
prostitution, attempted rape, rape and assault in and around establishments
dealing in alcoholic beverages; that actual and simulated nudity and sexual
conduct, coupled with the consumption of alcoholic beverages intent of §
549.06 of this article to specifically prohibit nudity, gross sexuality and the
simulation thereof in establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.05 NUDITY, SEXUAL CONDUCT PROHIBITED IN ESTABLISHMENTS DEALING IN
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The following prohibitions and criteria shall apply within existing and/or
newly created establishments dealing in alcoholic beverages and the curtilage
thereof.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly, intentionally or recklessly appear, or
cause another person to appear, nude or expose to public view his or her
genitals, pubic area, vulva or buttocks, or any simulation thereof.
   (b)   No female person shall knowingly, intentionally or recklessly expose,
or cause another female person to expose her breasts or any simulation thereof
to public views.
   (c)   No person or entity maintaining, owning or operating an establishment
dealing in alcoholic beverages shall encourage, allow or permit any person to
appear nude or to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic area, vulva,
anus or any portion of the buttocks or simulation thereof. This section shall
be violated if any portion of the buttocks is visible from any vantage point.
   (d)   No person or entity maintaining, owning or operating an establishment
dealing in alcoholic beverages shall encourage, allow or permit any female
person to expose her breasts or any simulation thereof to public view.
   (e)   No person shall engage in and no person or entity maintaining, owning
or operating an establishment dealing in alcoholic beverages shall encourage,
allow or permit any sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation, lap dancing, straddle dancing, any sexual act which
is prohibited by law, touching, caressing or fondling of the breasts, buttocks,
anus or genitals, or the simulation thereof.
   (f)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply when a person.
   (g)   Each female person may determine with one-fourth of her breast surface
area (see definition of “breast”) contiguous to and containing the areola is to
be covered.
   (h)   This section shall not be deemed to address photographs, movies, video
presentations or other non-live performances.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.06 NUDITY PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, intentionally or
recklessly appear, or cause another person to appear, nude in a public place or
in any other place which is readily visible to the public, except as provided
in §
549.07 of this article. It shall also be unlawful for any person or entity
maintaining, owning or operating any public place establishment to encourage,
suffer or allow any person to appear nude in such public place, except as
provided in §
549.07 of this article.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The prohibitions of §
549.06 of this article shall not apply:
   (a)   When a person appears nude in a place provided or set apart for
nudity; provided:
      (1)   Such person is nude for the sole purpose of performing the legal
function(s) that is customarily intended to be performed within such place
provided or set apart for nudity; and
      (2)   Such person is not nude for the purpose of obtaining money or other
financial gain for such person or for another person or entity.
   (b)   When the conduct of being nude can not legally be prohibited by this
article:
      (1)   Because it constitutes a part of a bona fide live communication,
demonstration or performance by a person wherein such nudity is expressive
conduct incidental to and necessary for the conveyance or communication of a
genuine message or public expression and is not a mere guise or pretense
utilized to exploit the conduct of being nude for profit or commercial gain and
as such is protected by the United States or West Virginia Constitution;
      (2)   Because it is otherwise protected by the United States or West
Virginia Constitution; or
      (3)   Uncovered during or incidental to the breast feeding; provided
that, the body parts specified in §
549.03 of this article are not exposed.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.08 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this article shall
be prosecuted in the same manner as misdemeanors are prosecuted. Such
violations shall be prosecuted in the name of the State of West Virginia in a
court having jurisdiction of misdemeanors by the prosecuting attorney thereof
and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed 60 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each incident or separate occurrence of an act that violates this
article shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.09 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In addition to the procedures provided herein, establishments dealing in
alcoholic beverages that are not in conformity with these requirements shall be
subject to appropriate civil action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction
for abatement.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
§ 549.10 TERRITORY EMBRACED.
   All territory within the legal boundaries of the Town of Nutter Fort shall
be embraced by the provisions of this article.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2004)
ARTICLE 553: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
553.01   Prohibited operation; penalty
   
553.02   Exemptions
   
553.03   Equipment; insurance
   
553.04   Liability; enforcement
   
553.05   Minors
   
553.06   Definition
§ 553.01 PROHIBITED OPERATION; PENALTY.
   (a)   The riding, operation or other use of ATVs within or upon the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parking lots and other governmentally owned, leased or
controlled property situated within the corporate limits of Nutter Fort is
prohibited, except as authorized pursuant to §
553.02 of this article.
   (b)   Any violation of subsection (a) above constitutes the commission of a
misdemeanor criminal offense, and the Council hereby specifically authorizes,
empowers and directs all officers of the Town of Nutter Fort’s Police
Department, or any officer of any other police agency exercising proper
jurisdiction within the corporate limits of the Town of Nutter Fort, to issue a
citation and charge any person whomsoever violates the ATV ban and prohibition
hereof, with jurisdiction of the matter belonging to the Municipal Court of the
Town of Nutter Fort.
   (c)   Any person adjudged guilty and convicted of any first offense
established hereunder by the Municipal Court shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $25, nor more than $100, plus all court costs.
   (d)   Any person adjudged guilty and convicted of any second or further
offenses established hereunder by the Municipal Court, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500, plus all Court costs.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001)
§ 553.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be
an offense for any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle within the State
of West Virginia, to ride, operate or otherwise use an ATV upon any private
property located within the corporate limits of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be
an offense for any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle within the State
of West Virginia, to ride, operate or otherwise use an ATV upon a designated
parade route or in conjunction with other activities sponsored, supported or
approved by the Town of Nutter Fort; provided that, the person operating the
ATV is a recognized participant of the sponsored, supported or approved
activity and the ATV riding, operation or other such use occurs in conjunction
with the sponsored, supported or approved activity.
   (c)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be
an offense for any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle within the State
of West Virginia, to ride, operate or otherwise use an ATV upon property
otherwise restricted from such use, when such person is a participant in a duly
organized exhibition or competition, authorized by the Council of the Town of
Nutter Fort through the issuance of a permit by the Town Council. Application
for any permit to conduct any such duly organized exhibition or competition
must be made within the Council of the Town of Nutter Fort not less than 30
days prior to the proposed date for conducting the exhibition or competition.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be
an offense for any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle within the State
of West Virginia, to ride, operate or otherwise use an ATV upon property
otherwise restricted from such use, when the Town of Nutter Fort has declared a
municipal emergency and has authorized the person operating the ATV to
participate in efforts to alleviate the conditions creating the municipal
emergency through the issuance of a permit by Town Council.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be
an offense for any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle within the State
of West Virginia, to ride, operate or otherwise use an ATV upon property
otherwise restricted from such use when the person operating the ATV is a
member of the Nutter Fort Police Department, the Nutter Fort Volunteer Fire
Department or the Nutter Fort Maintenance Department and the ATV riding,
operation or other such use occurs in conjunction with carrying out the
responsibilities of their employment.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, it shall not be
an offense for any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle within the State
of West Virginia, to ride, operate or otherwise use an ATV upon property
otherwise restricted for such use when such use is made in connection with the
sale, service, maintenance or demonstration of ATVs by any retail seller of
ATVs, or its employees or agents.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001)
§ 553.03 EQUIPMENT; INSURANCE.
   The person operating an ATV pursuant to §
553.02(b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of this article shall ensure that a helmet is
worn while riding the ATV; the ATV has functioning headlights and brake lights;
the ATV yields to all pedestrians and traffic; and the ATV and the person
operating the ATV are covered by a policy of insurance with minimum coverage
limits of $20,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one
accident, and, subject to said limit for one person, in the amount of $40,000
because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one
accident, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001)
§ 553.04 LIABILITY; ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing contained within this article is intended, nor shall be construed so
as to create or form the basis for any civil or administrative liability
whatsoever on the part of the Town of Nutter Fort, or any of its officers,
officials, employees or agents, for any injury or damage resulting to any
person whomsoever as a consequence of any action or inaction on the part of the
Town of Nutter Fort as related in any manner to the enforcement or non-
enforcement of this article by the town’s officers, officials, employees or
agents.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001)
§ 553.05 MINORS.
   The parent or other guardian of any person not having attained the age of 18
years shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such minor to violate any
provision hereof. Any such authorization or knowingly permitting any such minor
to violate the provisions of this article shall constitute a criminal violation
hereof, and shall subject such parent or other guardian, along with any minor
violating the provisions hereof, to those same criminal sanctions set forth in
§
553.02 of this article.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001)
§ 553.06 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this article, the term ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE shall be defined
as set forth in W.Va. Code § 17A-1-1(ii), as amended.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001)
PART SEVEN: BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
CHAPTER ONE: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 705: COAL HAULING
Section
   
705.01   Coal hauling permits
Cross References
   Commercial vehicle weight limits, see Part Three, §
347.01
   Loads dropping or leaking, see Part Three, §
347.04
§ 705.01 COAL HAULING PERMITS.
   (a)   No person, firm or corporation shall haul, or cause to be hauled, any
coal in any type of vehicle whatsoever over and across any street or alley
within the town, which is not a state highway, without first obtaining a permit
to make, or cause to be made, such haul from the office of the Treasurer.
   (b)   To obtain such permit, any person, firm or corporation desiring to
haul, or cause to be hauled, coal over and across the streets or alleys of the
town, which are not state highways, shall complete an application form provided
by the Treasurer, which application form shall show the following information:
specific location of haul; name of all streets; size and gross weight of loaded
vehicles to be used; estimate as to length of time hauling will be done; any
other pertinent, specific or general information desired by the Treasurer.
   (c)   Upon the filing of such application, accompanied by a fee of $25 paid
to the Treasurer, the Treasurer shall cause a notice of the filing of such
application, stating the name of the applicant, all pertinent information
concerning the permit sought, and a statement that any interested party may
reply or protest within five days thereafter to the Treasurer, which notice
shall be published one time in one newspaper of general circulation in the
town. Immediately upon the filing thereof, such application shall at once be
forwarded to the office of the Town Engineer, who, upon receipt thereof, shall
make an examination of: the street or streets to be so used; their respective
weight limitations; the expected vehicle weight; the condition of the streets;
any defects existing therein at such time; and the total length of the haul
upon the non-state highway streets; and make a written report of his or her
findings to the Treasurer and his or her opinion as to whether the streets can
safely bear the loads to be carried as shown upon the application, and whether
such hauling is unreasonably dangerous to persons or property. Upon request,
the Superintendent of the Street Department shall assist the Town Engineer in
making such investigation and report.
   (d)   If the Town Engineer reports that such streets cannot safely bear such
loads, that the hauling over the streets named in the application is
unreasonably dangerous to persons or property, then the Treasurer shall deny
the application and retain the fee paid for the cost of such investigation and
report.
   (e)   If the Town Engineer reports that such streets can safely bear such
loads, then the Treasurer, in the absence of any protests, shall grant the
permit sought and shall mark thereon the amount of royalty such applicant shall
pay, as hereinafter provided. If any written protests are filed with the town
against the issuance of such permit, then the Treasurer shall not issue any
permit, but shall refer the application, together with such written protests
and the Engineer’s report to Council which shall make a final determination of
the matter.
   (f)   A royalty for such hauling shall be paid by such applicants amounting
to royalties of from $0.03 per ton of coal hauled to $0.25 per ton of coal
hauled. The amount of such royalty shall be based upon the length of the haul
on town streets, the load weights, the condition of the streets, the weight
limitations of the streets and the Town Engineer’s reported estimate of the
amount of damage which may be done by such haul.
   (g)   If a permit is granted, before beginning operations thereunder, the
applicant shall deposit with the Treasurer the sum of $1,000 as an advance
royalty, credit for which shall be given in calculating the total royalties to
be paid by such applicant, but which credit will be allowed only upon the last
month’s royalty payment, with appropriate refunds to be made in case of over
payment.
   (h)   Royalties shall be paid for all coal hauled under such permit during
any month on or before the twenty-fifth day of the following month. Royalty
payments shall be accompanied by copies of the report of truck weights to
assist the Director of Finance in checking the accuracy of the royalty payment.
   (i)   One permit may suffice for continued hauling of any length of time, so
long as all payments are made as herein provided and all other laws, ordinances
and regulations of the state and the town are followed and obeyed.
   (j)   In the event that an applicant objects to the denial of a permit as
herein provided, or to the royalty determined in advance by the Treasurer, such
applicant may appeal to Council which shall proceed to make a determination of
the matters presented to it.
   (k)   Both applicant and any protestants shall have the right of judicial
review of any decision of Council made hereunder. However, during such
appellate procedure, no permit shall be issued pending a final determination
and order by the court of competent jurisdiction to which the decision of
Council is appealed.
ARTICLE 709: REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS
Section
   
709.01   Definitions
   
709.02   Registration; restrictions
   
709.03   Town registration issuance; fees
   
709.04   Registration revocation; appeal
§ 709.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, CONTRACTOR means any person who undertakes
to, or offers to undertake, or submits a bid to or does himself or herself or
by or through others, furnishes work, or both materials and work, in the
erection, construction, repair or alteration of structures including, but not
limited to, buildings, sidewalks, roads and the like of every kind within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1989-04, passed 3-28-1989)
§ 709.02 REGISTRATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall engage in the business of contractor without first obtaining
a registration as hereinafter provided, nor shall a person continue to engage
in any such activity after his or her registration has expired, been suspended
or revoked. It shall be the responsibility of every general contractor to hire
only such subcontractors as are registered under this code. All contractors
shall be current on their town business and occupation taxes before a
registration will be issued.
(Ord. 1989-04, passed 3-28-1989)
§ 709.03 TOWN REGISTRATION ISSUANCE; FEES.
   (a)   An application for a contractor’s registration shall be made to the
office of the Building Inspector, on such forms as may be required or
prescribed by the Mayor and shall be available for public inspection.
   (b)   Upon approval of the application for a contractor’s registration by
the Mayor, a fee of $15 for the first year and $15 for each year thereafter
shall be paid to the Town Treasurer, whereupon the registration shall be
issued. Such application form should include, but may not be limited to, the
following information and such applicant shall state such information on the
application:
      (1)   Name of individual applying and company name is desired;
      (2)   Address and telephone number;
      (3)   Federal identification number and Social Security number;
      (4)   Two personal references; and
      (5)   Bank references.
   (c)   Contractor’s registration shall be valid for a period of one year
beginning July 1 of each year. No registration issued hereunder shall be
transferable. A contractor may not be issued a building permit unless he or she
possesses a valid contractor’s registration. No fee shall be prorated.
(Ord. 1989-04, passed 3-28-1989)
§ 709.04 REGISTRATION REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (a)   A registration issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the
Mayor if he or she finds that the contractor is guilty of fraudulent use of his
or her registration, incompetency in the exercise of the privileges of such
registration, fraud or misrepresentation in securing the registration or
permits granted under the Building Code, refusal to conform his or her work to
the requirements of law, or breaches of such other duties placed on the
contractor by this Building Code or general law. Any such revocation shall be
preceded by written notice of the anticipated revocation sent by certified mail
to the contractor’s last known address at least 15 days prior to revocation,
but not before the Building Inspector has made every effort to serve the
contractor in person. Such notice shall inform the contractor of the grounds
for revocation and his or her right to an appeal to the Town Council. A
revocation of a registration shall not entitle a contractor to a refund of any
part of the fees.
   (b)   If the Mayor refuses to register any contractor or if a contractor is
notified by the Mayor that he or she was not in compliance with any provision
of this article, such contractor shall have the same right of appeal as under a
revocation of a registration. If any decision of the town officials is adverse
to any contractor, the contractor may apply to the Circuit Court of Harrison
County for review of such decision in the appropriate manner within 30 days of
such decision.
   (c)   The Mayor shall advise the contractor of his, her or its rights under
this section on any notice given to such contractor relating to the review of
the Mayor’s decision.
(Ord. 1989-04, passed 3-28-1989)
ARTICLE 713: YARD SALES
Section
   
713.01   Limitations
   
713.02   Advertising
   
713.03   Definitions
 
   
713.99   Penalty
§ 713.01 LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   (1)   Sales of tangible personal property may be made at yard sales no
more than four times per year and last no longer than 48 hours each.
      (2)   Yard sales shall be limited in time to no more than the daylight
hours and no yard sale shall be conducted on Sunday.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to sell or offer for sale,
under authority granted by this article, property other than personal property.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
§ 713.02 ADVERTISING.
   All signs must be in the soil and on private property, not fastened on any
utility poles, street signs and the like, and must be taken down within 24
hours after the completion of the yard sale.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
§ 713.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual.
   SALE. All general sales, open to the public, for the purpose of disposing of
personal property including, but not limited to, all sales entitled “garage”,
“lawn”, “yard”, “attic”, “porch”, “room”, “backyard”, “patio”, “flea market” or
“rummage” sale.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
§ 713.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for violation of this article shall be not less than $25, nor
more than $100, for each offense.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2001)
CHAPTER THREE: TAXES AND SERVICE CHARGES
ARTICLE 741: LICENSE TAXES GENERALLY; SCHEDULE OF FEES
Section
   
741.01   Licenses required
   
741.02   Penalties
   
741.03   Term of licenses
   
741.04   Assignment or transfer of licenses
   
741.05   Display of licenses
   
741.06   Schedule of fees
Cross References
   Authority to tax, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-4, 11-12-4
§ 741.01 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or conduct within the town any of the businesses
specified in this article, or do any acts for which a license is required under
this article, without first securing a license from Council and paying the
license taxes hereinafter specified.
§ 741.02 PENALTIES.
   If any person shall conduct any business or occupation, or exercise any
right or privilege without the municipal license or contractor’s registration
required therefor under this article, then such person shall, in addition to
paying the license tax, be required to pay a penalty. The amount of the penalty
shall be $10. This amount along with the license or registration fee amount
must be paid prior to the issuance of any work being performed within the
corporate limits of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 1996-, passed 7-23-1996)
§ 741.03 TERM OF LICENSES.
   The license period for all annual licenses provided for in this article
shall begin on July 1 of each year and end with this article the following June
30. If granted for a period less than a year, the license tax shall be computed
from the annual tax in proportion to such time as the license has to run,
unless specifically otherwise provided. However, no license for any purpose or
any length of time shall be issued for less than $2, unless otherwise
specifically provided.
§ 741.04 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   No licenses granted under this article shall be assignable or transferable,
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 741.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSES.
   Every person holding a town license for any of the purposes mentioned in
this article shall keep such license posted in a conspicuous position at the
place where any such business is carried on. Every person conducting a business
for which, under the provisions of this article, a town license is required
shall produce such license for inspection whenever required to so do by the
town authorities.
§ 741.06 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (a)   Auctioneers. For every license to act as an auctioneer, the annual
license fee shall be $10.
   (b)   Bakeries. For every license to maintain and operate a bakery, the
annual license fee shall be $15.
   (c)   Barber and beauty shops. For every license to maintain and operate a
barber shop or beauty shop, the annual license fee shall be $10.
   (d)   Billiard or pool tables. For every license to keep a billiard table or
pool table or table of like kind for public use or resort, where any charge is
made for the use of the same, the annual license fee shall be $25. If more than
one of such tables be kept in the same house by the same person, the annual
license fee shall be $25 for the first one and $5 for each additional one.
   (e)   Bowling alleys. For every license to keep a bowling alley for public
use or resort, where any charge is made for the use of same, the annual license
fee shall be $25.
   (f)   Circuses or menageries. For every license to exhibit a circus or
menagerie, the license fee shall be $10 for each exhibition. For every license
to exhibit a sideshow in the vicinity of any other show, the license fee shall
be $5 for each day or part thereof during which such sideshow is exhibited.
   (g)   Collection agencies. For every license to carry on or practice the
business of a collection agency, the annual license fee shall be $10.
   (h)   Drugstores. For every license to keep or maintain a drugstore, the
annual license fee shall be $15.
   (i)   Employment agencies. For every license to conduct a business of a
labor or employment agency for the purpose of hiring or contracting with
laborers for employment within the town, or arranging for the transportation of
such laborers to other points for employment there, the annual license fee
shall be $100.
   (j)   Fortunetellers. For every license to act as a fortuneteller, palmist,
mind reader or anyone who practices the profession of telling the past or
future, the license fee shall be $25 for one week or $200 for one year. No
license shall be issued for less than one week.
   (k)   Grocery stores. For every license to operate and maintain a grocery
store, the annual license fee shall be $15.
   (l)   Hawkers and peddlers. For every license to act as a hawker or peddler,
the annual license fee shall be $10; provided, however, that, this section
shall not be construed as requiring a license of a person engaged and
continuing in the business of agriculture, horticulture or grazing, who offers
for sale in the town goods produced upon the premises which he or she owns or
which he or she occupies as a bona fide tenant.
   (m)   Hotels and taverns. For every license to keep or maintain a hotel or
tavern where rooms are kept or maintained for transient guests, the charge for
which is by the day or night, the annual license fee shall be $10.
   (n)   Itinerant vendors. For every license to act as or carry on the
business of an itinerant vendor, the annual license fee shall be $25. The words
ITINERANT VENDOR mean and include all persons, firms and corporations who
engage or conduct within the town a temporary or transient business of selling
goods, wares and merchandise, and who have no permanent place of business
within the town.
   (o)   Junk dealers. For every resident junk dealer or itinerant purchaser of
junk, the annual license fee shall be $25, and for every agent, solicitor,
canvasser or salesperson employed by any resident junk dealer, the annual
license fee shall be $10. For every non-resident dealer who buys or solicits
for the purchase of junk within the town, the annual license fee shall be $50.
   (p)   Lunch wagons. For every license to keep or maintain a lunch wagon, the
annual license fee shall be $10.
   (q)   Music boxes and the like. For every license to keep or maintain a
music box or automatic phonograph in a public place, the annual license fee
shall be $10 for each such music box or automatic phonograph.
   (r)   Pawnbrokers. For every license to practice the business of
pawnbrokers, the annual license fee shall be $100.
   (s)   Pinball machines. For every license to keep or maintain a pinball
machine in a public place, the annual license fee shall be $10 for each such
pinball machine.
   (t)   Real estate agents. For every license to practice the business of real
estate agent or real estate broker, the annual license fee shall be $15.
   (u)   Restaurants and eating places. For every license to keep or maintain a
restaurant or other eating place not operated in connection with a hotel, the
annual license fee shall be $10.
   (v)   Theatrical performances. For every license to present a theatrical
performance, the license fee shall be $10 for one week, and no such license
shall be issued for less than one week; provided that, a theater, opera house
or other permanent place for public shows may secure a license for which the
charge shall be $10 for three months, $15 for six months and $20 for one year.
The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to literary,
dramatic, musical or benevolent societies, that conduct occasional theatrical
performances.
   (w)   Electronic or video games.
      (1)   The annual license tax, to operate or maintain an electronic or
video game, as defined below, shall be $12.50 per game machine if less than 20
machines are involved, or a flat fee of $250 if 20 or more machines are
involved.
      (2)   The phrase “electronic or video game” shall be determined in the
sound discretion of the individual or department responsible for the issuance
of licenses from the town.
      (3)   The lessor of such machine shall be liable for the license tax if a
leasing or rental arrangement is involved; otherwise, the owner of such machine
shall be liable for the license tax.
      (4)   This section shall exempt public corporate bodies, which are owners
or act as lessors of such games, from the payment of the license tax.
   (x)   All others. An annual license fee of $15 shall be imposed upon any
other business activity not licensed under this article.
(Ord. passed 6-22-1982; Ord. passed 1-14-1986; Ord. 1989-02, passed 2-28-1989;
Ord. passed 3-8-2011)
ARTICLE 745: BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
745.01   Definitions
   
745.02   Authority to levy
   
745.03   Records required to be kept by taxpayer
   
745.04   Schedule of payment; form of return
   
745.05   Returns and amount of payment confidential
   
745.055   Penalties for unlawful disclosure of information
   
745.06   Failure to make return; incomplete or erroneous return
   
745.07   Appeals; correction of assessments
   
745.08   Payment generally; receipts; accountability
   
745.09   Tax cumulative
   
745.10   Penalty for default
   
745.11   Collection by suit
   
745.12   Tax liens
   
745.13   Recordation of certificate of assessment; release of lien
   
745.14   Collection by distraint
   
745.15   Payment prerequisite to final settlement with town contractor
   
745.16   Prohibited acts
   
745.17   Administration
   
745.18   Exemptions
   
745.19   Assessment limited to subjects taxed by state
   
745.20   Use of gross income in computing tax
   
745.21   Determining value of goods
   
745.22   Value of goods transferred between affiliates
   
745.23   Erroneous computation
   
745.24   Production of coal and other natural resource products
   
745.25   Manufactured or compounded products
   
745.26   Business of selling tangible property; exemptions
   
745.27   Business of contracting
   
745.28   Business of operating amusements
   
745.29   Business of furnishing property for hire, lease and the like
   
745.30   Small loan business
   
745.31   Service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed
   
745.32   Banking and other financial business
   
745.33   Public service or utility business
Cross References
   Authority to tax, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-5
   Business and occupation tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-13
   Collection of taxes, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-15 et seq.
§ 745.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BUSINESS. All activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in with the
object of gain or economic benefit, either direct or indirect. The production
of raw materials or manufactured products, which are used or consumed in the
main business, shall be deemed BUSINESS engaged in, taxable in the class in
which it falls.
   COLLECTOR. The Town Recorder.
   CONTRACTING. The furnishing of work, or both materials and work, in the
fulfillment of a contract for the construction, alteration, repair, decoration
or improvement of a new or existing building or structure or any part thereof,
or for the alteration, improvement or development of real property.
   GROSS INCOME GENERALLY. The gross receipts of the taxpayer received as
compensation for personal services and the gross receipts of the taxpayer
derived from trade, business, commerce or sales and the value proceeding or
accruing from the sale of tangible property, real or personal, or service, or
both, and all receipts by reason of the investment of the capital of the
business engaged in, including interest, discount, rentals, royalties, fees or
other emoluments however designated and without any deductions on account of
the cost of property sold, the cost of material used, labor costs, taxes,
royalties, interest or discount paid or any other expense whatsoever.
   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES. The value, whether in money or other property,
actually proceeding from the sale of tangible property without any deduction on
account of the cost of property sold or expenses of any kind. The words GROSS
INCOME and GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES shall not be construed to include cash
discounts allowed and taken on sales, the proceeds of sales of goods, wares or
merchandise returned by customers when the sale price is refunded either in
cash or by credit or the sale price of any article accepted as part payment on
any new article sold, if the full sale price of the new article is included in
the GROSS INCOME or GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALES.
   SALE, SALES or SELLING. Any transfer of the ownership of, or title to
property, whether for money or in exchange for other property.
   SELLING AT WHOLESALE or WHOLESALE SALES. Sales of any tangible personal
property for the purpose of resale in the form of tangible personal property
and sales of machinery and supplies or materials which are to be directly
consumed or used by the purchaser in the conduct of any business or activity
which is subject to the tax imposed by this article and sales of any tangible
personal property to the United States of America, its agencies and
instrumentalities, or to the state, its institutions or political subdivisions.
   SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING. All activities engaged in for other persons for
a consideration, which involve the rendering of a service as distinguished from
the production or sale of tangible property, but shall not include the services
rendered by an employee to his or her employer.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax under this article.
   TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. The year beginning July 1 of each calendar year
and ending June 30 of each succeeding calendar year.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.02 AUTHORITY TO LEVY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of W.Va. Ch. 8, Art. 13, § 5, as amended, the
town hereby levies, adopts and reenacts the existing annual town business and
occupation or privilege tax on the business activities and occupations set
forth in this article in accordance with the plenary power and authority
granted to the town under provisions of the West Virginia Code.
(Ord. passed 3-26-1991; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.03 RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT BY TAXPAYER.
   A separate and complete record of the business of the taxpayer conducted
within the town shall be kept at his or her place of business and shall not be
combined or confused with records of business carried on at other places. The
Recorder may require the preservation of records for a period not exceeding
five years.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.04 SCHEDULE OF PAYMENT; FORM OF RETURN.
   The taxes levied under this article shall be payable in quarterly
installments on or before the expiration of 30 days from the end of the quarter
in which they accrue. The taxpayer shall, within 30 days from the expiration of
each quarter, make out a return upon a form prescribed by the Recorder, showing
the gross income of business, trade or calling and compute the amount of tax
for which he or she is liable for each quarter, sign the same and mail the
same, together with a remittance in the form required by §
745.08 of this article, for the amount of the tax to the office of the
Recorder. The Recorder may allow a taxpayer that owes less than $100 quarterly
to request that a yearly return be made. The Recorder, if he or she deems it
necessary to ensure payment of the tax, may require return and payment under
this section for other than quarterly periods. If, for any reason, it is not
practicable for the individual taxpayer to make the oath, the same may be made
by any duly authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990; Ord. 2001, passed 3-27-
2001)
§ 745.05 RETURNS AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENT CONFIDENTIAL.
   All information contained in the returns provided for in this article and
the amounts paid under the provisions hereof shall be confidential. No officer
or employee shall make known any such information for any purpose other than
for the enforcement of this article and of the laws of the state and the United
States of America.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.055 PENALTIES FOR UNLAWFUL DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
   (a)   Any officer, employee or agent of the town or any former officer,
employee or agent of the town who shall divulge facts or information obtained
from returns or tax statements other than for the purpose of administering such
tax shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than one
year, or both, together with costs of prosecution.
   (b)   Any officer, employee or agent of the town or any former officer,
employee or agent of the town who shall make unauthorized disclosure of
information received from the state’s Tax Commissioner under authority of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than one
year, or both, together with costs of prosecution.
   (c)   For the purposes of this code, UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE means the
release to any person of any tax information obtained by the town from the
state’s Tax Commissioner unless:
      (1)   The person receiving the information is the authorized counsel of
the state or town and shall be using the information only for the purpose of
administering business and occupation tax, sales from single location
businesses or liquor sales tax; or
      (2)   The person who filed the return has authorized, in writing, its
release, thereby waiving his or her right to secrecy.
(Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990; Ord. passed 11-10-1992)
§ 745.06 FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; INCOMPLETE OR ERRONEOUS RETURN.
   (a)   If any person fails or refuses to make a return either in whole or in
part, or if the Recorder has reasonable grounds to believe that any return made
is incorrect or is so deficient as not to form the basis of a satisfactory
assessment of the tax, he or she may proceed as he or she deems best to obtain
information on which to base the assessment of the tax. The Recorder may, by
himself, herself or his or her duly appointed agent, make examinations of the
books, records and papers and audit the accounts of any such person, including
bank accounts, and may take the evidence, on oath, of any person who he or she
may believe shall be in possession of any relevant information.
   (b)   As soon as possible after procuring such information as he or she may
be able to obtain as to any person making an incomplete or incorrect return, or
failing or refusing to make a return, the Recorder shall proceed to assess the
tax and shall notify the person assessed of the amount of the tax. The
assessment of the tax by the Recorder shall be final as to any person who
refused to make a return.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.07 APPEALS; CORRECTION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   If any person, having made a return and paid the tax as provided by this
article, feels aggrieved by the assessment made upon him or her by the
Recorder, he or she may apply to Council, by written petition within 30 days
after notice is mailed to him or her by the Recorder, for a hearing and a
correction of the amount of the tax so assessed upon him or her by the
Recorder, in which petition shall be set forth the reasons why such hearings
should be granted and the amount that such tax should be reduced. Council shall
promptly consider such petition, and may grant such hearing or deny the same.
If denied, the petitioner shall be forthwith notified thereof; if granted,
Council shall notify the petitioner of the time and place fixed for such
hearing. After such hearing, Council may make such order in the manner as may
appear to it just and lawful and shall furnish a copy of such order to the
petitioner. Any such person improperly charged with any tax and required to pay
the same may recover the amount paid, together with interest, in any proper
action or suit against the town. It shall not be necessary for the taxpayer to
protest against the payment of the tax or to make any demand to have the same
refunded to maintain such suit. Upon presentation of a certified copy of a
judgment so obtained by the petitioner, the Recorder shall issue his or her
warrant upon any funds available for the purpose.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.08 PAYMENT GENERALLY; RECEIPTS; ACCOUNTABILITY.
   All remittances of taxes imposed by this article shall be made to the
Recorder by bank draft, certified check, cashier’s check, money order or
certificate of deposit. The Recorder shall issue his or her receipts therefor
to the taxpayers and the moneys shall be kept and accounted for as provided by
law.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.09 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The tax imposed by this article shall be in addition to all other licenses
and taxes levied by law as a condition precedent to engaging in any business,
trade or calling. A person exercising a privilege taxable under this article,
subject to the payment of all licenses and charges which are conditions
precedent to exercising the privilege taxes, may exercise the privilege for the
current tax year upon the condition that he or she shall pay the tax accruing
under this article.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.10 PENALTY FOR DEFAULT.
   A tax due and unpaid under this article shall be a debt due the town. It
shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien upon all
property used in the business or occupation upon which such tax is imposed;
provided that, no such tax lien shall be enforceable against a purchaser,
including a lien creditor, for valuable consideration without notice, unless
docketed in the office of the Clerk of the County Court before a deed therefor
to such purchaser or the lien of such creditor is delivered for record to the
Clerk of the County Court. A penalty of 5% of the tax shall be added for any
default for 30 days or less and, for each succeeding 30 days elapsing before
payment, there shall be an additional penalty of 1%, all of which penalties
shall be secured by the lien herein provided; provided, however, that, if such
failure is due to reasonable cause, the Recorder may waive or remit in whole or
in part these penalties.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.11 COLLECTION BY SUIT.
   The Recorder may, by himself, herself or a duly appointed agent, collect
taxes due and unpaid under this article, together with all accrued penalties,
and for such purpose may exercise all the power authorized for the collection
of taxes under this article, other ordinances of the town and the laws of the
state. After delinquency shall have continued for 60 days, the Recorder may
proceed, by himself, herself or agent, in the Circuit Court of the county to
obtain an injunction restraining the further exercise of the privilege until
full payment shall have been made of all taxes and penalties due under this
article. In any proceeding under this section, upon judgment or decree for the
plaintiff, he or she shall be awarded his or her costs.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.12 TAX LIENS.
   The tax imposed by this article shall be a lien upon the property of any
person subject to the provisions hereof who shall sell out his or her business
or stock of goods or shall quit business, and such person shall be required to
make the return provided for under §
745.04 of this article within 30 days after the date he or she sold out his or
her business or stock of goods or quit business, and his or her successor in
business shall be required to withhold a sufficient amount of the purchase
money to cover the amount of such taxes due and unpaid until such time as the
former owner shall produce a receipt from the Recorder showing that the taxes
have been paid. If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods shall fail to
withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes shall be due and
unpaid after the 30-day period allowed, he or she shall be personally liable
for the payment of the taxes accrued and unpaid on account of the operation of
the business by the former owner.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.13 RECORDATION OF CERTIFICATE OF ASSESSMENT; RELEASE OF LIEN.
   (a)   The Recorder, for the more effective collection of the tax, may file
with the Clerk of the County Court a certified copy of an assessment of taxes
under this article for recordation, which shall thereafter constitute binding
notice of the lien created by this article upon all lands of the taxpayer
located in the town as against all parties whose interest arose after such
recordation. Upon payment of taxes delinquent under this article, the lien of
which shall have been recorded, the Recorder may certify in duplicate the fact
and amount of payment and the balance due, if any, and shall forward the
certificates, one to the taxpayer and one to the Clerk of the County Court. The
Clerk of the County Court shall record such certificate in the book in which
releases are recorded.
   (b)   From the date that such certificate is admitted to record the land of
the taxpayer in the town shall be free from any lien for taxes under this
article accrued to the date that the certificate was issued.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.14 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The Recorder may distrain upon any goods, chattels or intangibles
represented by negotiable evidences of indebtedness of any taxpayer delinquent
under this article for the amount of all taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.15 PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO FINAL SETTLEMENT WITH TOWN CONTRACTOR.
   All officers and agents making contracts on behalf of the town shall
withhold payment in the final settlement of such contracts until the receipt of
a certificate from the Recorder to the effect that all taxes levied or accrued
under this article against the contractor with respect to such contracts have
been paid.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.16 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall refuse to make the return provided to be made in §
745.04 of this article, or make any false or fraudulent return or false
statement in any return, with intent to defraud the town or to evade the
payment of the tax, or any part thereof, imposed by this article, or for the
president, vice-president, secretary or treasurer of any corporation to make or
permit to be made for any corporation or association any false return, or any
false statement in any return required in this article, with the intent to
evade the payment of any tax hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.17 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this article is vested in and shall be exercised by
the Recorder who shall prescribe forms and reasonable rules or procedure in
conformity with this article for the making of returns and for the
ascertainment, assessment and collection of the taxes imposed hereunder; and
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this article in any courts of the
state shall be under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Recorder, who shall
require the assistance of, and act through the Town Attorney.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.18 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The following exemption is hereby granted in computing business and
occupation (B&O) tax due pursuant to this article by any person or taxpayer:
retail liquor sales by a Class A freestanding liquor retail outlet. Any
individual or entity holding a Class A retail license and operating a
freestanding liquor retail outlet within the town limits pursuant to W.Va. Code
§§ 60-3A-1 et seq. shall be granted a $2,000 annual exemption of B&O tax on
retail liquor sales within town limits.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any new business
locating within a permanent structure inside the corporate limits of the town
after the effective date of this section shall be granted a credit and
exemption from the imposition of the business and occupational tax imposed by
this article as follows:
      (1)   A 50% credit against the business and occupational tax liability
for a period of one year from the commencement of such new business.
         (a)   Provided, however, the claim for such exemption shall be made by
such new business prior to the date the payment of such tax would otherwise be
due and such claim shall be made to the Treasurer in writing upon forms
prepared by the Treasurer or his or her designee. The provisions of this
exemption shall not relieve any taxpayer from the obligation to file business
and occupational tax returns as required by this article. Quarterly business
and occupational returns filed after due date will result in a forfeiture of
exemption. It is further the legislative intent of this section that the credit
granted herein is for the purpose of providing an incentive for new business to
locate within the town.
      (2)   A 25% credit against the business and occupational tax liability
for the second year of business.
         (a)   Provided, however, the claim for such exemption shall be made by
such new business prior to the date the payment of such tax would otherwise be
due and such claim shall be made to the Treasurer in writing upon forms
prepared by the Treasurer or his or her designee. The provisions of this
exemption shall not relieve any taxpayer from the obligation to file business
and occupational tax returns as required by this article. Quarterly business
and occupational returns filed after due date will result in a forfeiture of
exemption. It is further the legislative intent of this section that the credit
granted herein is for the purpose of providing an incentive for new business to
locate within the town.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990; Ord. passed 2-14-2006;
Ord. passed 5-11-2010; Ord. 2022-03, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 745.19 ASSESSMENT LIMITED TO SUBJECTS TAXED BY STATE.
   None of the provisions of this article shall be construed to assess the
town’s business and occupation tax upon any activity, occupation or privilege
that is exempt from the town’s business and occupation tax under provisions of
W.Va. Code Ch. 11, Art. 13, § 25, as amended, or any other provision of the
West Virginia Code, nor shall the rate of the town’s tax on any particular
activity, occupation or privilege exceed the maximum tax rate permitted under
provisions of the West Virginia Code.
(Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990; Ord. passed 3-26-1991)
§ 745.20 USE OF GROSS INCOME IN COMPUTING TAX.
   Gross income included in the measure of the tax under §§
745.24 and
745.25 of this article shall neither be added, nor deducted, in computing the
tax levied under the other sections of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.21 DETERMINING VALUE OF GOODS.
   If any person liable for any tax under §§
745.24 and
745.25 of this article shall ship or transport his or her products or any part
thereof out of the town without making sale of such products, the value of the
products in the condition or form in which they exist immediately before
transportation out of the town shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax
imposed in such sections. The Recorder shall prescribe equitable and uniform
rules for ascertaining such value.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.22 VALUE OF GOODS TRANSFERRED BETWEEN AFFILIATES.
   In determining value as regards sales from one to another of affiliated
persons, or under other circumstances where the relation between the buyer and
the seller is such that the gross proceeds from the sale are not indicative of
the true value of the subject matter of the sale, the Recorder shall prescribe
uniform and equitable rules for determining the value upon which such privilege
tax shall be levied, corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds
from the sale of similar products of like quality or character where no common
interest exists between the buyer and seller, but the circumstances and
conditions are otherwise similar.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.23 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   If the taxpayer shall make any error in computing the tax assessable against
him or her, the Recorder shall correct such error or reassess the proper amount
of taxes, and notify the taxpayer of his or her action by mailing to him or her
promptly a copy of the corrected assessment, and any additional tax for which
such taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within ten days after the receipt of
such statement. If the amount already paid exceeds that which should have been
paid on the basis of the tax so computed, the excess so paid shall be
immediately refunded to the taxpayer upon the request of the Recorder and shall
be payable out of any funds available for the purpose. The taxpayer may, at his
or her election, apply an overpayment credit to taxes subsequently accruing
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.24 PRODUCTION OF COAL AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCE PRODUCTS.
   (a)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business of producing for sale, profit or commercial use, any natural resource
products, the amount of such tax shall be equal to the value of the articles
produced, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
producer, except as otherwise provided, multiplied by the respective rates as
follows: coal, three-fifths of 1%; limestone or sandstone quarried or mined,
nine-tenths of 1%; oil, 1.8%; natural gas in excess of the value of $5,000,
1.8%; blast furnace slag, 1.8%; sand, gravel or other mineral product, not
quarried or mined, 1.8%; other natural resources, 0.75%. The measure of this
tax is the value of the entire production in the town, regardless of the place
of sale, or the fact that the delivery may be made to points outside the town.
   (b)   A person exercising privileges taxable under the other sections in
this article, producing timber or other natural resource products, the
production of which is taxable under this section, and using or consuming the
same in this business, shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of
producing natural resource products for sale, profit or commercial use, and
shall be returned to make returns on account of the production of the business
showing the gross proceeds or equivalent in accordance with uniform and
equitable rules for determining the value upon which such privilege tax shall
be levied, corresponding as nearly as possible to the gross proceeds from the
sale of similar products of like quality or character by other taxpayers, which
rules the Recorder shall prescribe.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.25 MANUFACTURED OR COMPOUNDED PRODUCTS.
   (a)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business of manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others in whole or
part, any article, substance, commodity or electric power not produced by
public utilities taxable under provisions of this article, the amount of the
tax to be equal to the value of the article, substance, commodities or electric
power manufactured, compounded or prepared for sale, as shown by the gross
proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the manufacturer or person
compounding or preparing the same, except as hereinafter provided, multiplied
by the rate of one-third of 1%. The measure of this tax is the value of the
entire product manufactured, compounded or prepared in the town for sale,
profit or commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or the fact that
deliveries may be made to points outside the town.
   (b)   It is further provided, however, that in those instances in which the
same person partially manufactures products within the town and partially
manufactures such products outside the town, the measure of this tax under this
section shall be that proportion of the sale price of the manufactured product
that the payroll cost of manufacturing within the town bears to the entire
payroll cost of manufacturing the product or, at the option of the taxpayer,
the measure of his or her tax under this section shall be the proportion of the
sales value of the articles that the cost of operations in the town bears to
the full cost of manufacturer of the articles.
(Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990; Ord. passed 9-8-1992)
§ 745.26 BUSINESS OF SELLING TANGIBLE PROPERTY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the
business of selling any tangible property whatsoever, real or personal;
including the sale of food and the services incident to the sale of food in
hotels, restaurants, cafeterias, confectioneries and other public eating
houses, excepting sales by any person engaging or continuing in the business of
horticulture, agriculture or grazing, or of selling stocks, bonds or other
evidences of indebtedness, there is likewise hereby levied, and shall be
collected, a tax equivalent to forty one-hundredths of 1% of the gross income
of the business; except that, in the case of a wholesaler or jobber, the tax
shall be equal to fifteen one-hundredths of 1% of the gross income of the
business. A person exercising any privilege taxable under §§
745.24 or
745.25 of this article and engaging in the business of selling his or her
natural resources or manufactured products at retail in the town shall be
required to make returns of the gross proceeds of such retail sales and pay the
tax imposed in this section for the privilege of engaging in the business of
selling such natural resources or manufactured products at retail in the town.
But, any person exercising any privilege taxable under §§
745.24 or
745.25 of this article and engaging in the business of selling his or her
natural resources or manufactured products to manufacturers, wholesalers or
jobbers and, in the case of limestone, sand, gravel or other mineral product,
to commercial consumers, shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in this
section for the privilege of selling such natural resource products or
manufactured products at wholesale.
   (b)   Manufacturers exercising any privilege taxable under §
745.09 of this article shall not be required to pay the tax imposed in this
section for the privilege of selling their manufactured products for delivery
outside of the town, but the gross income derived from the sale of such
manufactured products out of the town shall be included in determining the
measure of the tax imposed on such manufacturer in §
745.25 of this article.
   (c)   There is excepted from the provisions of this section the sale of
intoxicating liquors at retail by any person, firm or corporation when such
sale is subject to other taxation by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 7-1-1976; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.27 BUSINESS OF CONTRACTING.
   Two percent of the gross income of the business derived from contracts
entered into on or after 1-1-2006.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 7-1-1976; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990;
Ord. passed 2-14-2006)
§ 745.28 BUSINESS OF OPERATING AMUSEMENTS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the business of
operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville, amusement
park, dance hall, skating rink, race track, radio broadcasting station or any
other place at which amusements are offered to the public, the tax shall be
equal to four-tenths of 1% of the gross income of the business.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 7-1-1976; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.29 BUSINESS OF FURNISHING PROPERTY FOR HIRE, LEASE AND THE LIKE.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the business of
furnishing any real or tangible personal property which has a tax situs in the
town, or any interest therein, for hire, loan, lease or otherwise, whether the
return be in the form of rentals, royalties, fee or otherwise, the tax shall be
1% of the gross income of any such activity. The term TANGIBLE PERSONAL
PROPERTY, as used herein, shall not include money or public security.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 7-1-1976; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990;
Ord. passed 2-14-2006)
§ 745.30 SMALL LOAN BUSINESS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in the business of
making loans of money, credit, goods or other things in action who, because of
such activity, is required under the provisions of W.Va. Code § 47A, to obtain
a license from the Commissioner of Banking of the state, there shall be
collected a tax equal to 1% of the gross income of any such business.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 7-1-1976; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.31 SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING NOT OTHERWISE SPECIFICALLY TAXED.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the town in any service
business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this article, unless
exempted by some provisions of this article, there is likewise hereby levied
and shall be collected a tax equal to 1% of the gross income of any such
business.
(Ord. passed 6-30-1971; Ord. passed 7-1-1976; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.32 BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL BUSINESS.
   (a)   BANKING BUSINESS or FINANCIAL ORGANIZATION means any bank, banking
association, trust company, industrial loan company, small loan company or
licensee, building and loan association, credit union, finance company,
investment company, investment broker or dealer and any other similar business
organization at least 90% of the assets of which consists of dividends,
interest and other charges derived from the use of money or credit.
   (b)   Upon any person engaging or continuing to engage within the town, in
the banking and other financial business, there is hereby levied and shall be
collected taxes, on account of the business engaged in, equal to the gross
income of the banking business or financial organization, banking association,
trust company, industrial loan company, investment broker or dealer and any
other similar business organization, 1% on the gross income.
(Ord. passed 1-11-1983; Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990)
§ 745.33 PUBLIC SERVICE OR UTILITY BUSINESS.
   (a)   Upon any person engaging or continuing within the town, in the
following public service or utility business, there is likewise hereby levied
and shall be collected taxes, on account of the business engaged in, equal to
the gross income of the business multiplied by the respective rates as follows:
      (1)   Electric light and power companies: 4% on sales and demand charges
for domestic purposes and commercial lighting and 3% on sales and demand
charges for all other purposes, and except as to income received by
municipally-owned plants producing or purchasing electricity and distributing
same; and
      (2)   Natural gas companies: 3% on the gross income.
   (b)   The measure of this tax shall not include gross income derived from
commerce between the state and other states of the United States or between the
state and foreign countries. The measure of the tax under this section shall
include only gross income received from the supplying of public service. The
gross income of the taxpayer from any other activity shall be included in the
measure of the tax imposed upon such other activity by the appropriate section
or sections of this article.
(Ord. 1990-05, passed 6-12-1990; Ord. passed 3-26-1991)
ARTICLE 749: NON-INTOXICATING BEER
Section
   
749.01   Defined
   
749.02   Sales restricted
   
749.03   License required
   
749.04   Transfer of license prohibited
   
749.05   Revocation of license
   
749.06   License fees
 
   
749.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Liquor control, see Part Five,
Art. 521
   Municipal license tax, see W.Va. Code § 11-16-17
   Non-intoxicating beer, see W.Va. Code Art. 11-6
§ 749.01 DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, NON-INTOXICATING BEER shall mean all cereal
or malt beverages or products of the brewing industry commonly referred to as
“beer” or “ale”, containing not more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
§ 749.02 SALES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall sell, distribute or otherwise dispose of any cereal or malt
beverages which do not comply with the definition of non-intoxicating beer
contained in §
749.01 of this article.
§ 749.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, distribute or dispose of any non-intoxicating beer
within the town before securing both a state and town license. No town license
shall be granted any beer manufacturer, wholesaler, distributor or retailer,
unless prior to that time such person has already secured a state license.
§ 749.04 TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No license issued under the provisions of this article shall be transferred
to any other person, nor shall the location of the premises to which the
license relates be changed without the written consent of the licensing
authorities of the town, which consent may be refused at their discretion.
§ 749.05 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted by the town under this article may be revoked at any
time for a violation by the licensee of any provision of this article or any
provision of any state law governing the productions, distribution, sale and
consumption of non-intoxicating beer, and the town licenses granted under this
article shall be automatically revoked if the state license held by such
licensee is revoked for any cause whatsoever.
§ 749.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (a)   For every license to operate as a retail dealer in and of non-
intoxicating beer, where such beer may be consumed on the premises thereof, the
annual license fee shall be $50 for each place of business; provided, however,
that, such license fee for social, fraternal or public groups not operating for
profit and having been in continuous operation for two years or more
immediately preceding the date of application shall be $5.
   (b)   For every license to operate as a retail dealer in and of non-
intoxicating beer, where such beer is not consumed on the premises, the annual
license fee shall be $5 for each place of business.
   (c)   For every license to act or operate as a wholesaler and distributor of
non-intoxicating beer, the annual license fee shall be $50 for each place of
business within the town.
   (d)   For the license to act or operate as a brewer, the annual license fee
shall be $500 for each place of manufacture within the town.
   (e)   For a failure to pay the license fees imposed by this article, the
person owing such fee shall be required to pay a penalty in addition to the
license fees above provided. The amount of the penalty shall equal 10% of the
annual fee imposed on persons operating in such capacities for each month or
fractional part thereof during which the license fee remained unpaid.
§ 749.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating §
749.06 of this article shall, upon conviction, be fined in an amount not to
exceed $500, or imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days, or both.
ARTICLE 753: INTOXICATING LIQUOR
Section
   
753.01   Levy
Cross References
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-7, 60-7-7
   Liquor control, see Part Five,
Art. 521
§ 753.01 LEVY.
   Pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-13-7, last amended, there is hereby imposed a tax
of 5% of the retail purchase price of any and all intoxicating liquors
purchased from the Alcohol Beverage Control Commission or from any person
licensed to sell wine at retail to the public under the provision of W.Va. Code
Art. 60-8, within the corporate boundaries of the municipality. Such tax shall
be levied upon the purchaser of such intoxicating liquor or wine and shall be
added to any collected with the retail purchase price of such intoxicating
liquor or wine. Such tax shall be received by the municipality from the State
Treasury pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner; provided, however, that, such tax shall not be collected
on intoxicating liquors sold by or purchased from holders of a license issued
under the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7; provided further, such tax shall
be collected upon all sale of wine to holders of a license issued under the
provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-7 from a wine distributor licensed pursuant to
the provisions of W.Va. Code Art. 60-3.
(Ord. passed 8-23-1983)
ARTICLE 757: PRIVATE CLUBS
Section
   
757.01   Definitions
   
757.02   License required
   
757.03   Applications; information required; verification
   
757.04   Investigation of applicant
   
757.05   Refusal to issue license
   
757.06   License limited to one location
   
757.07   Expiration
   
757.08   License not transferable
   
757.09   Copy of article
   
757.10   Annual license fee
   
757.11   Failure to obtain license
   
757.12   Revocation or suspension of license
   
757.13   Certain acts of licensee prohibited
   
757.14   Effect of article on licenses for sale of non-intoxicating beer
Cross References
   Authority to license, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-13-7, 60-7-7
   Liquor control, Part Five
Art. 521
   Private clubs, see W.Va. Code Art. 60-7
§ 757.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the definitions of PRIVATE CLUB, LICENSEE,
APPLICANT, COMMISSIONER and CODE shall be the same as contained in W.Va. Code §
60-7-2.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No licensee authorized by the state to sell alcoholic liquors, as provided
by W.Va. Code § 60-7-3, shall do so within the corporate limits of the town
without first having obtained a town license issued by the Recorder, as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.03 APPLICATIONS; INFORMATION REQUIRED; VERIFICATION.
   (a)   Application for a license to operate a private club shall be made on
such forms as may be prescribed by the Recorder and shall include:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   If such applicant be an unincorporated association, the names and
addresses of the members of its governing board;
      (3)   If such applicant be a corporation, the names and addresses of its
officers and directors;
      (4)   The place at which such applicant will conduct its operations and
whether the same is owned or leased by the applicant;
      (5)   The number of members of the applicant;
      (6)   The name or names of any national organizations with which the
applicant is affiliated and the nature of such affiliation;
      (7)   The size and nature of the dining and kitchen facilities operated
by applicant; and
      (8)   Such other information as the Recorder may reasonably require which
shall include, but not be limited to, the criminal records, if any, of each
member of applicant’s governing board or its officers and directors who have
been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.
   (b)   Such application shall be verified by each member of the governing
board of the applicant if an unincorporated association or, if the applicant be
a corporation, by each of its officers and all members of its board of
directors. Such application shall be accompanied by the license fee hereinafter
prescribed.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.04 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Upon receipt of the application referred to in §
757.03 of this article, together with the accompanying license fee hereinafter
set out, the Recorder and, at the Recorder’s request, his or her duly
authorized representatives may conduct such investigation as the Recorder may
deem necessary to determine the accuracy of the matters contained in such
application. The Police Department, and all duly employed members thereof, are
hereby designated as authorized representatives of the Recorder and are hereby
directed to make such investigation as the Recorder may direct to determine the
accuracy of the matters contained in any such application. A written report of
every such investigation shall be attached to the application which it concerns
and shall be maintained as a part of the permanent records of the town. The
Recorder shall withhold issuing such license until such time as the applicant
exhibits a valid private club license issued by the state’s Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner. For the purpose of conducting such investigation, the
Recorder may withhold the granting or refusal to grant such license for a
period not to exceed 30 days. If it shall appear that such applicant is a bona
fide private club, of good reputation in the town and that there is no false
statement contained in such application, the Recorder shall issue a license
authorizing the applicant to sell alcoholic liquors within the town and
otherwise shall refuse to issue such license.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.05 REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE.
   Upon refusal to issue such license, the Recorder shall promptly notify the
applicant, in writing, of the reasons for such refusal and such refusal shall
be final unless a hearing is requested in accordance with the provisions of §
757.12 of this article. When such refusal becomes final, the Recorder shall
forthwith refund to the applicant the fee accompanying his or her application
and shall promptly advise the Commissioner, in writing, of his or her reasons
for denying such application.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.06 LICENSE LIMITED TO ONE LOCATION.
   Any license issued pursuant to an application received hereunder shall
authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquors at only the one location
specified in the license.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.07 EXPIRATION.
   Any license issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 next following the date
of issue and may be renewed upon the same showing as required for the issuance
of the initial license, together with the payment of fees hereinafter
prescribed.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.08 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   A license issued under the provisions of this article shall not be
transferable with regard to either licensee or location.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.09 COPY OF ARTICLE.
   The Recorder shall deliver to the licensee of any license issued hereunder a
copy of this article and shall advise the licensee to fully acquaint himself or
herself with the provisions thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.10 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   The annual municipal license fee for a license issued under the
provisions of this article shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a licensee having 100 members or less: $500;
      (2)   For a licensee having more than 100, but less than 300 members:
$750;
      (3)   For a licensee having 300 or more, but less than 600 members:
$1,000; and
      (4)   For a licensee having 600 or more members: $1,500.
   (b)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1 of any year
and to expire on June 30 of such year shall be one-half of that prescribed by
subsection (a) hereof.
   (c)   (1)   As the state shall require a retail outlet to obtain a liquor
license from the state, the Town of Nutter Fort shall also issue a liquor
license subsequent to the retail outlet receiving a liquor license from the
state. After the issuance of a state liquor license, the applicant must then
file an application with the Director of the Division of Finance of the Town of
Nutter Fort.
      (2)   The annual retail license period shall be from July 1 to June 30 of
the following year. The annual retail license fee, if an applicant holds a
Class A retail license under state law shall be the sum of $1,500 per outlet.
The annual retail license fee if an applicant holds a Class B retail license
shall be $500 per outlet. The annual retail license fee for the initial year of
issuance shall be prorated based on the number of days remaining between the
date of issuance and the following June 30.
      (3)   A retail license shall expire on June 30 of each year and may be
renewed only upon the submission to the Director of the Division of Finance of
the Town of Nutter Fort.
      (4)   No person may sell liquor at any retail outlet if the retail
license applicable to such outlet has been suspended or revoked or has expired.
      (5)   All retail licenses issued or renewed under the provisions of this
section shall expire and be of no further force or effect as of 7-1-2000.
Licenses issued thereafter will be so issued in accordance with applicable law.
      (6)   Violations of the provisions of this section shall be punishable by
a fine of $500 and/or imprisonment for up to 30 days.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968; Ord. passed 2-12-1991)
§ 757.11 FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   Any licensee authorized to sell alcoholic liquors, as provided by W.Va. Code
§ 60-7-3, who shall do so or who shall permit such sales to be made within the
corporate limits of the town without first having obtained a town license
therefor shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The Mayor shall
have jurisdiction to hear and determine all cases brought hereunder. For the
purposes of this section, the licensee shall be deemed to have permitted any
sale of alcoholic liquors which take place on the licensed premises and shall
be subject to the penalty provisions of this section for any sales so made.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   The Recorder may, on his or her own motion, or shall on the sworn
complaint of any person, conduct an investigation or cause an investigation to
be conducted by his or her duly authorized representatives to determine if any
provisions of this article have been violated by any licensee. A written report
of any such investigation shall be attached to the application which it
concerns and shall be maintained as a part of the permanent records of the
town. The Recorder shall revoke any licensee’s license if he or she finds that
such licensee has violated any provision of this article, or if he or she finds
the existence of any ground on which a license could have been refused, if such
licensee were then applying for the same. Upon final conviction of a licensee,
or any employee thereof acting within the scope of his or her employment, of
any violation of any ordinance of the town relating to the regulation and
control of alcoholic liquors, gambling, prostitution or the sale, possession or
distribution of narcotics or dangerous drugs, the Recorder shall forthwith
revoke the licensee’s license. Such revoked license shall not be reissued or
reinstated for a period of one year from the date of such revocation. The
location used by the licensee whose license shall have been revoked shall not
be used or occupied by any other licensee during such one-year period, and the
Recorder shall not issue a new license to any applicant to use the premises
during the period of one year from the date of revocation.
   (b)   Whenever the Recorder shall refuse to issue a license, or shall revoke
a license, he or she shall cause a notice, in writing, stating the reasons for
such action to be served in person or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, on the licensee or applicant, and shall immediately advise the
Commissioner of such action and the reasons therefor, in writing.
   (c)   Any applicant or licensee, as the case may be, adversely affected by
such action by the Recorder shall have a right to a hearing thereon before
Council; provided that, demand in writing for such hearing is served upon the
Recorder, within ten days following the receipt of such applicant or licensee
of the certified copy of such notice. The service of such demand for a hearing
upon the Recorder shall operate to suspend the execution of the action with
respect to which a hearing is being demanded.
   (d)   The Recorder shall immediately notify Council that such demand for
hearing has been served and Council shall set a date for such hearing, the
hearing to be held within 30 days after receipt of such demand by the Recorder,
and shall cause the person demanding the hearing to be notified thereof. At
such hearing, Council shall hear evidence and, thereafter, shall, by resolution
carried by a majority of Council, affirm, modify or vacate the action with
respect to which such hearing was held, which resolution shall be final unless
vacated or modified upon judicial review thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.13 CERTAIN ACTS OF LICENSEE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No licensee, or agent, employee or member thereof, on such licensee’s
premises shall:
      (1)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors other than from the
original package or container;
      (2)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace or obscene, lewd,
immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice;
      (3)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any alcoholic liquors, for any minor, mental incompetent or person who is
physically incapacitated due to the consumption of alcoholic liquor, or the use
of drugs;
      (4)   Sell, give or dispense alcoholic liquor in or on any licensed
premises or in any rooms directly connected therewith, between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on any Sunday;
      (5)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises,
any alcoholic liquors, covered by this article, to any person under the age of
21 years; or
      (6)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change or misrepresent the
quality, quantity or brand name of any alcoholic liquor.
   (b)   No licensee shall advertise in any news media or other means, outside
of the licensee’s premises, the fact that alcoholic liquors may be purchased
thereat.
   (c)   Any person who violates any of the foregoing provisions shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment. The Mayor shall have
jurisdiction to hear and determine all cases brought hereunder.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
§ 757.14 EFFECT OF ARTICLE ON LICENSES FOR SALE OF NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   Notwithstanding any other ordinance of the town to the contrary, no licensee
shall be prohibited from obtaining a license for the sale of non-intoxicating
beer under the provisions of W.Va. Code § 11-16, because such licensee sells
alcoholic liquors, permits the consumption of alcoholic liquor on his or her
premises, or is the holder of a federal tax stamp permitting the sale of such
alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. passed 4-23-1968)
ARTICLE 761: PUBLIC UTILITIES SERVICE TAX
Section
   
761.01   Definitions
   
761.02   Imposition and levying of tax
   
761.03   Collection; time of payment; accounting
   
761.04   Records; inspection thereof
   
761.05   Exemptions
   
761.06   Rules and regulations
   
761.07   Enforcement
 
   
761.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Business and occupation tax on utilities, see Part Seven, §
745.33
   Public utilities tax, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-5a
§ 761.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this article shall for the
purposes of this article have the following respective meanings.
   PERSON. Individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
combinations thereof of whatever form or character.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. All services and tangible personal property
purchased within the town from a seller, as hereinafter in this section
defined, namely: telephone service; electric service; gas service; including
bottled or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified as a public utility
subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of West Virginia;
water service and sanitary sewer service; waste collection; taxi or limousine
service; if purchased, used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
town.
   PURCHASER. Every person who purchases, uses or consumes a public utility
service.
   SELLER. Every person, whether a public service corporation, a municipality
or private corporation, classified as a public utility and subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of West Virginia, who sells,
furnishes or supplies a public utility service.
   USER. The owner or tenant of property used for commercial or industrial
purposes, and every combination thereof, of every kind or description.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.02 IMPOSITION AND LEVYING OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed and levied upon each and every purchaser of a public
utility service an excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using or
consuming, within the corporate limits of the town, such public utility
service. Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge (exclusive of any
federal or state tax thereon imposed upon the purchaser) made by the seller
against the purchaser with respect to each public utility service, which tax in
every case shall be collected by the seller and paid by the purchaser upon the
amount of each periodic statement rendered such purchaser by the seller, and
shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the time the purchase price or
such charge shall become due and payable under the agreement between the
purchaser and the seller. The tax imposed and levied by this article is in
addition to all other taxes imposed and levied by the municipality. In the
event the amount of the charge for any single public utility service exceeds
the sum of $20,000 in any given calendar month, to any single purchaser, no tax
shall be imposed for such additional purchase, use or consumption in excess of
the amount of $20,000. In the event more than one public utility shall furnish
the identical public utility service to the same purchaser, the purchaser shall
be entitled to group the same as a single public utility service in calculating
the amount of the charges in any calendar month for such public utility
service.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.03 COLLECTION; TIME OF PAYMENT; ACCOUNTING.
   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collecting medium
or agency for the town to collect from each purchaser for the use of the
municipality the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of collecting the
purchase price charged for its public utility service, and the amount of tax
actually collected during each calendar month shall be reported by each seller
to the Treasurer and each seller shall remit the amount of tax shown by the
report to have been collected to the Treasurer on or before the last day of the
second calendar month following the month in which collected, together with the
name and address of any purchaser who has failed or refused to pay the tax so
imposed and levied by this article shall apply to periodic statements rendered
after 8-1-1971, for public utility service rendered subsequent to 8-1-1971, and
when any such periodic statement covers public utility service rendered both
before and after such date, only that portion of the charge for public utility
service rendered after such date shall be subject to such tax, and the portion
subject to such tax shall be such portion of the total charge as the number of
days after 6-30-1971 within the period covered by such periodic statement,
bears to the total number of days covered by such periodic statement. The
required reports shall be in the form prescribed by the Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.04 RECORDS; INSPECTION THEREOF.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of the town,
which records shall show the charge made against each purchaser, the dates such
public utility service was furnished, the date of payment therefor and the
amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records shall be kept open for
inspection by the duly authorized agents of the municipality at reasonable
times, and the duly authorized agents of the municipality shall have the right,
power and authority to make, at the expense of the municipality, such
transcripts thereof during such times as they may desire.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions, which transactions are hereby exempted from such tax:
   (a)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (b)   Purchases of public utility service by the United States of America,
the state and the political subdivisions, municipalities, boards, commissions,
authorities and public corporations thereof;
   (c)   Purchases of tangible personal property such as appliances or the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (d)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones, and specific charges or tolls for
telephone calls to points outside the corporate limits of the municipality; and
   (e)   Non-recurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously collecting
the tax hereby imposed and levied or for erroneously failing to bill for such
tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the seller. When any
purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by such purchaser, on the ground
that the public utility service was not purchased, used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the town, the seller shall refer the question to the
Treasurer, and such seller shall thereafter collect or refrain from collecting
such tax from such purchaser for such public utility service as instructed in
writing to do by the Treasurer. Any and all claims for refunds of any such tax
shall be presented to the municipality and not to the seller.
   (b)   The Treasurer shall have the authority to promulgate and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this article.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under this article shall be a debt due the
municipality. It shall be a personal obligation of the purchaser which shall be
enforceable as provided in W.Va. Code § 8-13-5, as amended, or in any other
manner now or hereafter provided by law for compelling the payment of taxes due
municipalities.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
§ 761.99 PENALTY.
   Any purchaser failing or refusing to pay the tax hereby imposed and levied
and any seller or purchaser violating any of the provisions hereof or any
lawful rule and regulation promulgated hereunder shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
The failure or refusal to pay the tax for public utility service purchased,
used or consumed during different periodic statement periods shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1971)
ARTICLE 765: WINE DISTRIBUTORS AND RETAILERS
Section
   
765.01   Levy
Cross References
   Authority to levy, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-4
   Liquor control, see Part Five,
Art. 521
§ 765.01 LEVY.
   (a)   There is hereby imposed an annual license tax upon distributors and
retailers of wine within the town. No person may engage in business in the
capacity of distributor or retailer of wine, as provided by W.Va. Code Art. 60-
8, within the corporate limits of the town, without first obtaining a license
from the town, nor shall a person continue to engage in any such activity after
his or her license has expired, been suspended or revoked. No person may be
licensed in more than one of such capacities at the same time.
   (b)   The town shall collect an annual fee for license issued under this
section as follows:
      (1)   For a distributor’s license: $2,500 per year; and
      (2)   For a retailer’s license: $150 per year.
   (c)   The license period shall begin on July 1 of each year, commencing with
7-1-1981, and ending on June 30 of the following year and, if the initial
license is granted for less than a year, the fee shall be computed in
proportion to the number of quarters remaining in the fiscal year, including
the quarter in which application is made.
   (d)   A retailer who has more than one place of retail business shall obtain
a license for each separate retail establishment. A retailer’s license may be
issued only to the proprietor or owner of a bona fide grocery store or wine
specialty shop.
(Ord. passed 6-23-1981)
ARTICLE 769: EXCHANGE OF TAX INFORMATION
Section
   
769.01   Confidential nature of returns
   
769.02   Intergovernmental agreement
§ 769.01 CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF RETURNS.
   (a)   All tax information obtained from the state and from the town shall be
confidential. Any tax information obtained by the town from the state, and any
tax information obtained by the state from the town shall be used only to the
extent necessary in the administration and enforcement of the town tax laws and
the state tax laws for the assessment and collection of its taxes.
   (b)   Neither party shall disclose any tax information obtained by virtue of
the exchange of tax information to the Federal Government, to another state, to
other agencies or departments of the receiving party, or to any other local
government unit or municipality, except as described in §
769.02 of this article, without the consent of the party from which the
information is obtained.
   (c)   Except when required under general law or in any proceeding before a
court of competent jurisdiction of W.Va. Code § 11-10-5, no officer or employee
of the town or state shall divulge or make known in any manner the tax return,
or any part thereof of any individual firm or corporation, or disclose
information concerning the personal affairs of any individual or the business
of any single firm, or corporation, or disclose the amount of income, or any
particulars, set forth or disclose in any report, declaration or return
obtained by the town or the state.
   (d)   Any officer or employee who violates the provisions of this article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both fined and
imprisoned.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2006)
§ 769.02 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT.
   (a)   It is hereby found and determined that the terms of the
Intergovernmental Agreement for the Exchange of Information Among the Town of
Nutter Fort, The West Virginia Municipal League, Inc. and Participating
Municipalities in the form presented to this meeting and incorporated in this
section are in the best interests of the municipality.
   (b)   The Intergovernmental Agreement for the Exchange of Information Among
the Town of Nutter Fort, the West Virginia Municipal League Inc. and
Participating Municipalities is hereby approved. The Mayor and other officers
of the municipality who shall have power to execute contracts on behalf of the
municipality be, and each of them hereby is, authorized to execute, acknowledge
and deliver the intergovernmental agreement, such approval to be conclusively
evidenced by such execution and delivery of the intergovernmental agreement.
The Mayor, Clerk or Recorder and any other officers of the municipality who
shall have the power to do so be and each of them hereby is, authorized to
affix the official seal of the municipality to the intergovernmental agreement
and attest the same.
   (c)   The proper officer(s) of the municipality be, and each of them hereby
is authorized and directed to execute and deliver any and all papers,
instruments, opinions, certificates, affidavits and other documents and to do
or cause to be done any and all other acts and things necessary or proper for
carrying out this section and enabling the municipality to participate in the
WVML Revenue Enhancement and Administration Program.
   (d)   The proper officer(s) of the municipality shall, in order for the
intergovernmental agreement to become effective, file a copy of the same with
the Recorder of all participating municipalities, the state’s Tax Commissioner
and the West Virginia Municipal League.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2006)
ARTICLE 773: HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
Section
   
773.01   Imposition of tax
   
773.02   Collection of tax
   
773.03   Records and returns
   
773.04   Liability
   
773.05   Exceptions
   
773.06   Rules and regulations
   
773.07   Disposition of proceeds of tax
 
   
773.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Hotel occupancy tax, see W.Va. Code Art. 7-18
§ 773.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed a tax on the use and occupancy of a hotel room
within the boundaries of the town. The rate of such tax shall be 3% of the
consideration paid for such use and occupancy. The tax shall be paid by the
consumer or occupant of the hotel room and be collected by the hotel operator
as a part of the consideration paid for the occupancy of the hotel room.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.02 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (a)   The tax shall be collectible by the hotel operator, who shall account
for, and remit to the town, all taxes paid by the consumer. The hotel operator
shall separately state the tax on all bills, invoices, accounts, books of
account and records relating to consideration paid for occupancy or use of a
hotel room.
   (b)   A hotel or hotel operator shall not represent to the public, in any
manner, directly or indirectly, that it will absorb all or any part of the tax
or that the tax is not to be considered an element in the price to be collected
from the consumer.
   (c)   A hotel operator doing business wholly or partly on a credit basis
shall require the consumer to pay the full amount of tax due upon the credit
sale at the time such sale is made or within 30 days thereafter.
   (d)   Notwithstanding that the total amount of such taxes collected by a
hotel operator may be in excess of the amount of which a consumer would be
liable by application of the levy of 3% for the occupancy of a hotel room or
rooms, the total amount of all taxes collected by any hotel operator shall be
remitted to the town.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.03 RECORDS AND RETURNS.
   (a)   Each hotel operator shall keep complete and accurate records of
taxable sales and charges, together with a record of the tax collected thereon.
Such records and documents shall be kept and maintained for a period of three
years unless the hotel operator is notified by the town that they be kept for a
longer period.
   (b)   The tax imposed by this article shall be due and payable in monthly
installments on the tenth day of the month for all taxes collected from
consumers in the preceding calendar month. The remittance of such taxes shall
be accompanied by a return, in a form and containing such information as the
Recorder may, by rule or regulation, require.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.04 LIABILITY.
   (a)   If any hotel operator fails to collect the tax imposed by this article
or shall fail to properly remit such tax to the town, he or she shall be
personally liable for such amount as he or she failed to collect or remit.
   (b)   If the hotel operator is an association or corporation, the officers
thereof actually participating in the management or operation of the
association or corporation shall be personally liable; jointly and severally
for any default on the part of the association or corporation to collect or
remit the tax, as herein required.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The tax imposed by this article shall not be collected in the following
instances:
   (a)   From any consumer occupying a hotel room for 30 or more consecutive
days;
   (b)   When the hotel room occupancy is billed directly to the United States
of America or any agency thereof; and
   (c)   When the hotel room occupancy is billed directly to the state or any
political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Recorder may promulgate rules, regulations and administrative procedures
concerning the assessment, collection and refund of the tax imposed by this
article.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.07 DISPOSITIONS OF PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   From the revenues derived from the tax imposed by this article, Council
shall appropriate such revenues in the following manner and for the following
purposes:
   (a)   At least 50% of the net revenue received by the town shall be
appropriated to the town’s Convention and Visitor’s Bureau for the promotion of
conventions and tourism; and
   (b)   The remaining portion of the net revenue received by the town shall be
appropriated for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   The planning, construction, reconstruction, establishment,
acquisition, improvement, renovation, extension, enlargement, equipment,
maintenance, repair and operation by publicly owned convention facilities
including, but not limited to, arenas, auditoriums, civic centers and
convention centers;
      (2)   The payment of principal or interest or both on revenue bonds
issued to finance such convention facilities;
      (3)   The promotion of conventions;
      (4)   The construction or maintenance of public parks, tourist
information centers and recreation facilities including land acquisition; or
      (5)   The promotion of the arts.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
§ 773.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Willfully refuse to pay or collect the tax;
      (2)   Willfully refuse to make the return required by this article;
      (3)   Willfully make any false or fraudulent return or false statement in
any return with the intent to defraud the town;
      (4)   Willfully evade the payment of tax, or any part thereof;
      (5)   Willfully aid or abet another in an attempt to evade the payment of
tax, or any part thereof; and
      (6)   For any officer, partner or principal of any corporation or
association to willfully make or willfully permit to be made for such
corporation or association any false return, or any false statement in any
return, with the intent to evade payment of the tax.
   (b)   Any person found guilty of willfully violating the provisions of this
article shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for a period of not
more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
(Ord. passed 9-10-1985)
ARTICLE 777: RENTAL DWELLING UNITS
Section
   
777.01   Purpose
   
777.02   Scope
   
777.03   Definitions
   
777.04   Illegal conditions; citation authority
   
777.05   Application for certificate of use and occupancy
   
777.06   Filing deadlines
   
777.07   Fees and conditions
   
777.08   Inspections
   
777.081   Right of tenant to pre-compliance review
   
777.09   Exemptions
   
777.10   Certificate of use and occupancy, display, transfer, expiration
   
777.11   Notice of violation
   
777.12   Right of appeal
   
777.13   Applicability of other laws
   
777.14   Waiverability
   
777.15   Applicability of codes and other ordinances
 
   
777.99   Penalty
§ 777.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to promote health and safety standards for
rental housing and to secure and preserve the integrity and character of
residential districts within the Town of Nutter Fort. These standards relate to
the condition, maintenance and occupancy of rental dwelling units and are
intended to ensure that rental housing is safe, sanitary and suitable in
accordance with applicable provisions of the State Building Code and other
regulations as adopted by the Town Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.02 SCOPE.
   This article applies to all rental dwelling units within the Town of Nutter
Fort. This article shall not apply to owner-occupied dwellings wherein roomers
or boarders are maintained in common living areas in accordance with other
applicable codes and ordinances. This article shall not apply to hotels,
motels, dormitories, lodging and boarding houses and other transient
residential occupancies. Buildings housing businesses or commercial uses in
addition to rental dwelling units shall be subject to the provisions of the
State Building Code which apply to such mixed uses.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the terms listed below shall be assigned
the following definitions.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY. The certificate issued by the Code
Official which permits the use of a building and which certifies compliance
with the provisions of law for the use and occupancy of the building in its
several parts together with any special stipulations or conditions.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the Building Code of the Town of Nutter Fort,
or a duly authorized representative.
   FAMILY. An individual; two or more persons related to each other by blood,
marriage or legal adoption, including foster children; or, in the alternative,
not more than three unrelated persons.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or having actual
possession of a dwelling unit.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or as tenant in common with others, has
legal or equitable title to any dwelling unit with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof. For the purposes of this article, OWNER includes an
agent of the owner empowered by the owner to act on the conditions or under the
circumstances in question.
   RENT. Payment of money, goods, labor, service or otherwise for use of a
dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING. Any house, building, mobile home, duplex, condo, townhouse,
apartment, or portion thereof intended to be occupied as the place of
habitation of human beings, either permanently or transiently for which the
owner or operator receives rent from an occupant to permit the occupant to stay
in the rental dwelling for one night or more. The term RENTAL DWELLING shall
exclude state-licensed health and custodial facilities. The term RENTAL
DWELLING shall include the following:
      (1)   APARTMENT. A room or group of rooms intended to be occupied for
living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      (2)   APARTMENT HOUSE. A residential building designed or used for three
or more dwelling units.
      (3)   CONDOMINIUM, TOWNHOUSE. A single-dwelling unit in a multi-unit
dwelling or structure which is separately owned and which may be combined with
an undivided interest in the common areas and facilities of the property.
      (4)   DWELLING (ONE FAMILY). Any building or portion thereof which
contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking
and sanitation, as required by this code, for not more than one family, or a
congregate residence for six or less persons.
      (5)   DWELLING, DUPLEX (TWO FAMILY). A building designed or arranged as
two dwelling units, to be occupied by two families living independently.
      (6)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE UNIT. A building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by three or more families living independently in which they may or
may not share common entrance and/or other spaces. Individual dwelling units
may be owned as condominiums or offered for rent.
      (7)   GUEST ROOM. Any sleeping area located inside of a hotel and/or
motel for guests to sleep in.
      (8)   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or structure constructed in such a manner
as to permit occupancy thereof as sleeping and eating quarters or for the
conduct of any business, trade or use for storage or conveyance of tools,
equipment or machinery, and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels
and used as a conveyance on roads or streets, customarily propelled or drawn by
motor power other than its own. MOBILE HOME also includes Type II and Type III
manufactured homes as defined herein.
      (9)   TENANT. An occupant of a rental dwelling unit who has signed a
lease or made a verbal contract exceeding a seven-consecutive day commitment.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.04 ILLEGAL CONDITIONS; CITATION AUTHORITY.
   (a)   An owner or operator shall not rent or offer for rent any dwelling
unit for use in whole or in part for human habitation unless a valid
certificate of use and occupancy has been issued for such dwelling unit by the
Code Official indicating that inspection found the premises to be in
substantial compliance with the State Building Code.
   (b)   Any Code Official charged with the enforcement of this article may
issue a citation for an illegal condition found in violation of the provisions
of this section if the violation is committed in the Code Official’s presence
and there is reasonable grounds to believe that the person being cited will
appear to answer the charge. The citation shall provide that the person being
cited shall appear within a designated time. If the person being cited fails to
appear in response to the citation or if there are reasonable grounds to
believe that the person being cited will not appear, a complaint may be made by
summons and complaint and/or a warrant shall issue.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.05 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   Application for a certificate of use and occupancy shall be submitted in
writing, on forms provided, to the Code Official and shall contain at least the
following information:
   (a)   For the dwelling:
      (1)   The address(es) of the dwelling units;
      (2)   The zoning district of the dwelling;
      (3)   The number of units in the dwelling;
      (4)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner, agent or
operator, and any other person to be notified in case of emergency or non-
conforming condition requiring notification; and
      (5)   Any other uses within the building.
   (b)   For each dwelling unit:
      (1)   The story on which the unit is located;
      (2)   Maximum occupancy;
      (3)   Number of off-street parking spaces available; and
      (4)   Dwelling unit identification number.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.06 FILING DEADLINES.
   (a)   Initial application. Application for a certificate of use and
occupancy for a rental dwelling unit where none has previously been issued
shall be in accordance with §
777.05.
   (b)   Annual renewal application. An application for renewal of the existing
certificate of use and occupancy shall be filed by March 15 of each year. An
application for renewal of a certificate of use and occupancy for a new
structure (a structure where no certificate has ever been granted) shall be
filed one year from the date of original inspection of the new structure. Upon
receiving an application for renewal of the certificate of use and occupancy,
the Code Official shall inspect the dwelling and shall reissue a certificate of
use and occupancy within ten days following inspection if said unit is found to
be in substantial compliance with the State Building Code.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.07 FEES AND CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Each property owner shall be charged a compliance inspection fee of
$20 per inspection per unit, not to exceed $500 per calendar year for owners
with multiple rental units.
   (b)   Property owners missing scheduled inspections, and failing to provide
24-hour notice shall be charged an additional $10 fee.
   (c)   All inspections shall be scheduled during regular business hours,
unless otherwise approved by the Code Official.
   (d)   Court appearance fees of $15 per hour or portion thereof shall be
charged to the requesting party when scheduling is at least 24 hours in advance
and $30 per hour or portion thereof when appearances are scheduled within 24
hours of a hearing.
   (e)   Real estate pre-sale inspection fees of $50 per man-hour with a one-
hour minimum charge shall be assessed where an inspection is requested to
determine if a rental property is in compliance with the State Building Code.
   (f)   Preparation and issuance of a duplicate certificate of use and
occupancy shall require a $10 service charge.
   (g)   Re-inspection fees of $30 per unit shall be charged to the property
owner for each inspection of property requiring more than two inspections for
compliance.
   (h)   Application fees of $50 shall be charged for Board of Appeals
hearings.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.08 INSPECTIONS.
   Subject to §
777.081 below, the owner for purposes of inspection under rental registration
shall provide the Code Official access to all areas of any building containing
rental dwelling units and the Code Official shall be accompanied by the owner
or an agent of the owner during inspection.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.081 RIGHT OF TENANT TO PRE-COMPLIANCE REVIEW.
   If a tenant does not consent to inspection of a rental dwelling unit which
that tenant occupies, the inspecting Code Official shall provide written notice
to that tenant that:
   (a)   The Code Official will apply for an administrative warrant before the
Town of Nutter Fort Municipal Court (“Municipal Court”) at the Municipal
Court’s next scheduled hearing date, or, if impractical, the next available
hearing date;
   (b)   The tenant has the right to appear at that hearing and contest the
issuance of the administrative warrant; and
   (c)   Failure to appear at that hearing may result in the issuance of an
administrative warrant permitting the Code Official to inspect the property in
question.
   (d)   The written notice shall specify the time and date of the next
Municipal Court session, and the purpose of the inspection.
   (e)   The tenant shall sign the notice and return the same to the Code
Official prior to the Municipal Court’s next scheduled hearing date.
   (f)   Failure to sign and return the notice prior to the hearing date, or
failure to appear at the hearing, shall constitute a waiver of the tenant's
right to contest the issuance of the aforementioned administrative warrant.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   All single, duplex and multi-family rental units and structures, including
boarding and/or rooming houses as defined in the Town of Nutter Fort’s Zoning
Ordinance, located within the Town of Nutter Fort shall comply with the
requirements of this article except as specifically exempted below:
   (a)   All residential rental units and/or complexes owned and inspected by
the Federal Housing and Urban Development Department (HUD) or the Federal
Housing Administration (FHA). Proof of inspection and compliance must be
provided.
   (b)   Hotels, motels, and bed and breakfast establishments as classified in
the West Virginia Building Code, as amended.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.10 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY, DISPLAY, TRANSFER, EXPIRATION.
   (a)   If, upon inspection, the rental dwelling unit is found to conform to
the requirements of this article, the Code Official shall issue a certificate
of use and occupancy within ten days.
   (b)   After the effective date of this section, either upon an initial
application or a renewal application, a certificate of use and occupancy shall
be issued for the dwelling unit after the Code Official finds the unit in
substantial compliance with this article.
   (c)   The certificate of use and occupancy shall be transferable to
subsequent owners of the respective dwelling unit(s).
   (d)   A copy of the certificate of use and occupancy shall be available for
inspection at the Town of Nutter Fort’s office during regular business hours.
   (e)   The owner/agent shall post a copy of the certificate of use and
occupancy in a conspicuous location in the interior of the premises or near the
interior electrical fuse or circuit box of each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.11 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   When, in the course of the inspection required under this article,
violations are discovered on the premises which do not affect the habitability
or safety of a rental dwelling, such violations shall be cited in accordance
with the administrative provisions of the applicable code or ordinance. Such
violations shall not be construed as grounds to withhold or revoke the
certificate of use and occupancy.
   (b)   Where conditions exist which affect the habitability of the dwelling
but which do not pose an imminent hazard to the occupants, a certificate of use
and occupancy shall be issued along with a notice of violation. The notice of
violation shall be in writing, shall be served to the owner or agent, shall
contain a description of the property sufficient for identification, and shall
include:
      (1)   A statement of the reason(s) for which it was issued;
      (2)   A correction order specifying repairs to be made;
      (3)   A reasonable time in which repairs are to be completed; and
      (4)   A statement of the owner’s right of appeal.
   (c)   The owner shall, within the time period specified in the notice of
violation, correct all deficiencies cited in violation of the State Building
Code and town codes. The certificate of use and occupancy shall be revoked and
a notice to vacate issued if the dwelling unit is not in compliance within the
time specified in the notice of violation. However, the Code Official may, upon
written request, extend the period for compliance where the work has been
delayed despite good-faith efforts to comply and where such extension presents
no immediate threat to the health or safety of the occupants of the dwelling
unit or other units or properties. A notice of violation shall not be construed
to verify substandard housing except where conditions exist which require the
vacation of the dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (d)   Where violations are found which, in the judgment of the Code
Official, are sufficient to withhold or revoke the certificate of use and
occupancy, the Code Official shall issue a notice to vacate. The notice to
vacate shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Be served to the owner or owner’s agent;
      (3)   Contain a description of the property sufficient for
identification;
      (4)   State the reasons therefor;
      (5)   Include a copy of any relevant notice(s) of violation; and
      (6)   Include notification of the owner’s right of appeal.
   (e)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the Code
Official from ordering the immediate vacation of any dwelling or dwelling unit
where violations are discovered which pose an imminent threat to the health or
safety of the occupants. Appeal shall not stay an order to vacate under such
conditions.
   (f)   Occupancy of any rental dwelling unit in violation of a notice to
vacate shall subject the owner/agent and/or the occupants to the penalties
prescribed in §
777.99.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.12 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (a)   Any property owner or agent shall have the right to appeal to the
Board of Appeals from a decision of the Code Official where it is alleged that
the intent of this article or the codes referenced herein have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this article do not fully apply, or an
equivalent remedy to any violation may be employed. Such appeal shall be in
writing stating the reasons therefore and shall be submitted to the Code
Official within 20 days of receipt of the notice of violation. Except where
conditions warrant immediate vacation of the dwelling, such appeal shall stay
all action on the part of the Code Official in furtherance of the notice of
violation from which the appeal was taken.
   (b)   Where a violation of the Town Planning and Zoning Code is cited in a
notice of violation, appeal shall be to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.13 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   This article is not intended to abrogate any of the rights and
responsibilities normally ascribed to the tenant or the landlord under the laws
of West Virginia, whether set out by case law, by the West Virginia Code, or
any other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.14 WAIVERABILITY.
   The minimum requirement of this article may not be waived either
intentionally or impliedly by either party to a rental agreement.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.15 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER CODES AND ORDINANCES.
   This article is in addition to all housing requirements of other Town of
Nutter Fort ordinances and the laws of the state, as the case may be.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 777.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day that a violation
continues after notification of same by the Code Official shall be deemed a
separate offense. The imposition of penalties prescribed herein shall not
relieve the property owner from responsibility for full compliance with all
other applicable codes and ordinances, including any and all separate fines and
penalties imposed thereunder.
(Ord. 2023-07, passed 12-12-2023)
ARTICLE 781: CONSUMER SALES AND SERVICE TAX
AND USE TAX
Section
   
781.01   Town Council findings
   
781.02   Definitions
   
781.03   Imposition of consumer sales and service tax
   
781.04   Imposition of use tax
   
781.05   Calculation of tax on fractional parts of dollar
   
781.06   State and local tax bases
   
781.07   Exceptions
   
781.08   Credit against municipal use tax
   
781.09   Tax cumulative
   
781.10   Local rate and boundary data base; changes
   
781.11   State level administration
   
781.12   Administrative procedures
   
781.13   Criminal penalties
   
781.14   Automatic updating
   
781.15   Deposit of taxes collected and received in a special revenue fund
§ 781.01 TOWN COUNCIL FINDINGS.
   (a)   The Municipal Home Rule Board on January 15, 2020, approved the home
rule plan submitted by the Town of Nutter Fort, thereby allowing the Town of
Nutter Fort to reduce the business and occupation tax on certain tax
classifications and enact a 1% consumers sales and service tax and a use tax
pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-1-5a without the limiting restrictions in W.Va. Code
§§ 8-13C-1 et seq. The Town of Nutter Fort will provide for a 5% reduction in
B&O tax through a reduction on rental B&O taxes to a rate of 0.0%. In
accordance with its home rule plan, the Town Council hereby finds and declares
that the adoption by this town for its consumer sales and service tax and its
use tax provisions of the W.Va. Code, 1931, as amended, relating to imposition,
administration, collection and enforcement of the state consumers sales and
service tax codified in W. Va. Code §§ 11-15-1 et seq., the state use tax
codified in W.Va. Code §§ 11-15A-1 et seq., and the Streamlined Sales and Use
Tax Act codified in W.Va. Code §§ 11-15B-1 et seq. will:
      (1) Simplify collection of the town’s sales and use taxes;
      (2) Simplify preparation of municipal sales and use tax returns by
taxpayers; and
      (3) Improve enforcement of the town’s sales and use taxes.
   (b)   The Town Council does, therefore, declare that this article be
construed so as to accomplish the foregoing purposes.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Terms used in this article or in the administration, collection and
enforcement of the taxes imposed by this article and not otherwise defined in
this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in W.Va. Code 11-9, 11-
10, 11-15, 11-15-a, and 11-15-b, 1931, as amended.
   (b)   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires otherwise.
      BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in
by any person with the object of gain or economic benefit, direct or indirect,
and all activities of the state and its political subdivisions, which involve
sales of tangible personal property or the rendering of services when those
service activities compete with or may compete with the activities of other
persons.
      CODE OF WEST VIRGINIA OR W.VA. CODE. The Code of West Virginia, 1931, as
amended from time to time by the West Virginia Legislature.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership or any other legal entity,
including this state or its political subdivisions or an agency of either, or
the guardian, trustee, committee, executor or administrator of any person.
      PURCHASE. Any transfer, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner or by any means whatsoever, for a consideration.
      PURCHASE PRICE. The measure subject to the taxes imposed by this article
and has the same meaning as SALES PRICE.
      PURCHASER. A person who purchases tangible personal property, custom
software or a service taxed by this article.
      SALE, SALES or SELLING. Have the meanings ascribed to those terms in
W.Va. Code 11-15-b.
      SALES AND USE TAXES. The taxes imposed by §§
781.03 and
781.04 of this article.
      SALES PRICE. The meaning ascribed to that term in W.Va. Code 11-15-b
      SALES TAX. The tax levied by §
781.03 of this article.
      SERVICE or SELECTED SERVICE. The meanings ascribed to those terms in
W.Va. Code 11-15-b
      STATE SALES TAX. The tax levied by W.Va. Code 11-15 as amended.
      STATE USE TAX. The tax levied by W.Va. Code 11-15-a, as amended.
      TAX. The taxes imposed by this article and includes additions to tax,
interest and penalties levied under W.Va. Code 11-10, 1931, as amended.
      TAX COMMISSIONER. The Chief Executive Office of the Tax Division of the
Department of Revenue of this state, as provided in W.Va. Code § 11-1-1.
      THIS STATE. The State of West Virginia.
      TOWN or THIS TOWN. The Town of Nutter Fort, West Virginia.
      ULTIMATE CONSUMER or CONSUMER. A person who uses or consumes services,
tangible personal property or custom software.
      USE. For purposes of the tax imposed by §
781.04 of this article means and includes:
         (a)   The exercise by any person of any right or power over tangible
personal property or custom software incident to the ownership, possession or
enjoyment of the property, or by any transaction in which possession of or the
exercise of any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software
or the result of a taxable service is acquired for a consideration, including
any lease, rental or conditional sale of tangible personal property or custom
software; or
         (b)   The USE or ENJOYMENT in this state of the result of a taxable
service. As used in this definition, ENJOYMENT includes a purchaser’s right to
direct the disposition of the property or the use of the taxable service,
whether or not the purchaser has possession of the property.
         (c)   The term USE does not include the keeping, retaining or
exercising any right or power over tangible personal property, custom software
or the result of a taxable service for the purpose of subsequently transporting
it outside the Town of Nutter Fort for use thereafter solely outside this Town
of Nutter Fort.
      USE TAX. The tax imposed by §
781.04 of this article.
      VENDOR. Any person engaged in the Town of Nutter Fort in furnishing
services taxed by this article or making sales of tangible personal property or
custom software. VENDOR and SELLER are used interchangeably in this article.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.03 IMPOSITION OF CONSUMER SALES AND SERVICE TAX.
   For the privilege of selling tangible personal property or customer software
and for the privilege of furnishing certain selected services, a vendor doing
business in this Town of Nutter Fort shall collect from the purchaser the taxes
imposed by this section and pay the amount of taxes collected to the Tax
Commissioner at the same time and in the same manner as the consumers sales and
service tax imposed by W.Va. Code 11-15, 1931, as amended, are paid to the Tax
Commissioner. The rate of tax shall be1% of the sales price, as defined in
W.Va. Code § 11-15-b-2, 1931, as amended, of the tangible personal property,
custom software or taxable service purchased or leased.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.04 IMPOSITION OF USE TAX.
   An excise tax is hereby levied and imposed on the use in the Town of Nutter
Fort of tangible personal property, custom software and the results of taxable
services, to be collected and paid to the tax commissioner as agent for the
Town of Nutter Fort in the same manner that state use tax is collected under
W.Va. Code 11-15-a and 11-15-b, 1931, as amended, and remitted to the Tax
Commissioner. The rate of tax shall be 1% of the purchase price, as defined in
§
781.02 of this article, of the tangible personal property, custom software or
taxable service used within the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.05 CALCULATION OF TAX ON FRACTIONAL PARTS OF DOLLAR.
   The tax computation under §§
781.03 and
781.04 of this article shall be carried to the third decimal place and the tax
rounded up to the next whole cent whenever the third decimal place is greater
than four and rounded down to the lower whole cent whenever the third decimal
place is four or less. The vendor may elect to compute the tax due on a
transaction on a per item basis or on an invoice basis provided the method used
is consistently used during the reporting period but the method used shall be
the same as that used for purposes of computing the state sales or use tax.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.06 STATE AND LOCAL TAX BASES.
   The taxable base of the taxes imposed by §§
781.03 and
781.04 of this article shall be identical to the sales and use tax base of this
state except as provided in §
781.07 of this article, unless otherwise prohibited by federal law, as required
by W.Va. Code § 11-15B-34.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   The taxes imposed by this article do not apply to:
   (a)   The sale or use of motor fuel, as defined in W.Va. Code 11-14-c, 1931,
as amended, upon which the tax imposed by that article is collected.
   (b)   The sale or use of motor vehicles upon which the tax imposed by W.Va.
Code § 11-15-3c, 1931, as amended, is paid.
   (c)   The purchase or use of any tangible personal property, custom software
or service that the Town of Nutter Fort is prohibited from taxing under the
laws of this state or of the United States.
   (d)   The sales tax imposed by §
781.03 of this article does not apply to any transaction that is exempt from
the tax imposed by W.Va. Code 11-15.
   (e) The use tax imposed by §
781.04 of this article does not apply to any purchase upon which the sales tax
imposed by §
781.03 of this article has been paid.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.08 CREDIT AGAINST MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (a)   A person is entitled to a credit against the use tax imposed by §
781.04 of this article on the use of a particular item of tangible personal
property, custom software or results of a taxable service equal to the amount,
if any, of sales tax lawfully paid to another municipality for the acquisition
of that property, custom software or service: provided, that the amount of
credit allowed may not exceed the amount of use tax imposed by §
781.04 of this article on the use of the tangible personal property, custom
software or results of the taxable service in this Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires otherwise.
      MUNICIPALITY. Includes municipalities of this state or of any other state
of the United States.
      SALES TAX. Includes a sales tax or compensating use tax imposed on the
sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or the results of a
taxable service by the municipality in which the sale occurred.
   (c)   No credit is allowed under this section for payment of any sales or
use taxes imposed by this state or any other state. For purposes of this
subsection, STATE includes the 50 states of the United States and the District
of Columbia but does not include any of the several territories organized by
Congress.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.09 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The taxes imposed by this article are in addition to other taxes imposed on
the sale or use of tangible personal property, custom software or taxable
services including, but not limited to, the state consumers sales and service
tax imposed by W.Va. Code 11-15; the state use tax imposed by W.Va. Code 11-
15A; the public utility tax imposed by this town pursuant to W.Va. Code 8-5a;
the amusement tax imposed by this town pursuant to W.Va. Code § 8-13-6; the tax
on sales of alcoholic liquors and wine imposed by this town pursuant to W.Va.
Code § 8-13-6; the hotel occupancy tax imposed by this town pursuant to W.Va.
Code 7-18; and the special district excise taxes imposed by a county pursuant
to W.Va. Code §§ 7-22-1 et seq. or a municipality pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 8-
38-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.10 LOCAL RATE AND BOUNDARY DATA BASE; CHANGES.
   (a)   The Tax Commissioner is required by W. Va. Code § 11-15B-35 to
maintain a database for all jurisdictions levying a sales or use tax in this
state. The Town of Nutter Fort shall furnish the Tax Commissioner with
information the Tax Commissioner requires for that database that will allow the
Tax Commissioner to maintain a database that assigns each five-digit and nine-
digit zip code within the Town of Nutter Fort to the proper rate of tax. If any
nine-digit zip code area includes area outside the Town of Nutter Fort, the
single state and local rate assigned to that area in the Tax Commissioner’s
database will be the lowest rate applicable to that area: provided, that, when
sales occur at and are sourced to a physical location of the seller located in
the Town of Nutter Fort in that nine-digit zip code area, the seller shall
collect the tax imposed by §
781.03 of this article.
   (b)   Whenever boundaries of the Town of Nutter Fort change, whether by
annexation or de-annexation, the Town Recorder or their designee shall promptly
notify the Tax Commissioner in writing of the change in boundaries; provide the
Tax Commissioner with the nine-digit zip code or codes for the area annexed or
de-annexed; and any other information the Tax Commissioner may require to
maintain the database. An ordinance annexing property into the Town of Nutter
Fort, or an ordinance removing property from the corporate limits of the Town
of Nutter Fort may not take effect any sooner than the first day of a calendar
quarter that begins 60 day after the Town of Nutter Fort provides written
notice to the tax commission of a change in the municipal boundaries.
   (c)   The nine-digit database shall be maintained by the Town of Nutter Fort
until such time as the Tax Commissioner allows use of a different system to
determine whether a location is within or outside the corporate limits of the
Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.11 STATE LEVEL ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The Tax Commissioner is responsible for administering, collecting, and
enforcing the taxes imposed by this article as provided in W.Va. Code §§ 8-13C-
6 and 11-15B-33. The Town of Nutter Fort may enter into a written agreement
with the Tax Commissioner that will allow employees of the Town of Nutter Fort
auditing a vendor whose primary business location is in the Town of Nutter Fort
for compliance with the town’s business and occupation tax to also audit that
business location for compliance with the sales and use tax laws of this state
and the Town of Nutter Fort and obligate the Town of Nutter Fort to share that
information with the Tax Commissioner.
   (b)   The Tax Commissioner may retain from collections of the taxes imposed
by this article the fee allowed by W.Va. Code § 11-10-1lc or by any other state
law or legislative rule.
   (c)   The Tax Commissioner shall deposit all the proceeds from collection of
the taxes imposed by this article, minus any fee for collecting, enforcing and
administering taxes retained under this section, in the subaccount for the Town
of Nutter Fort established in “Municipal Sales and Services Tax and Use Tax
Fund,” an interest bearing account created in the state treasury pursuant to
W.Va. Code § 8-13C-7. All moneys collected and deposited in the subaccount for
the Town of Nutter Fort shall be remitted at least quarterly by the State
Treasurer to the Town of Nutter Fort, as provided W.Va. Code § 8-13C-7.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.12 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Each and every provision of the West Virginia Tax Procedure and
Administration Act set forth in W.Va. Code 11-10 applies to the administration,
collection and enforcement of the sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to this
article, except as otherwise expressly provided in W.Va. Code 8-13C, with like
effect as if that act were applicable only to the taxes imposed by this article
and were set forth in this article, as provided in W.Va. Code § 8-13C-6.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.13 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Each and every provision of the West Virginia Tax Crimes and Penalties Act
set forth in W.Va. Code 11-9 applies to the administration, collection and
enforcement of the municipal sales and use taxes imposed pursuant to this
article with like effect as if that act were applicable only to the taxes
imposed pursuant to this article and were set forth in this article, as
provided in W.Va. Code § 8-13C-6; provided, that the criminal penalties imposed
upon conviction for a criminal violation of this article may not exceed the
maximum penalties allowed by law for a similar violation of the ordinances of
the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.14 AUTOMATIC UPDATING.
   Any amendments to W.Va. Code 11-9, 11-10, 11-15, 11-15-a, and 11-15-b shall
automatically apply to the municipal sales and use tax imposed pursuant to this
article, to the extent they are applicable to the taxes imposed by this
article.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 781.15 DEPOSIT OF TAXES COLLECTED AND RECEIVED IN A SPECIAL REVENUE FUND.
   (a)   There is hereby established a special revenue fund in the Town
Treasury which shall be designated and known as the Town Sales and Use Tax
Fund. The Town Sales and Use Tax Fund shall consist of:
      (1)   All revenues received from collection of the town’s sales and use
taxes, including any interest, additions to tax and penalties deposited with
the Town of Nutter Fort;
      (2)   All appropriations to the fund;
      (3)   All interest earned from investment of the fund; and
      (4)   Any gifts, grants or contributions received and placed by the town
into the Town Sales and Use Tax Fund.
   (b)   Revenues in the Town Sales and Use Tax Fund shall not be treated by
any person to be a general revenue of the town. Revenues in the Town Sales and
Use Tax Fund shall be disbursed in the manner and consistent with the
priorities set forth for in subsection (c) below.
   (c)   Revenues in the Town Sales and Use Tax Fund shall be allocated by Town
Council in accordance with the following priorities:
      (1)   First, to satisfy the debt service requirements and any prior debt
service requirements deficit each fiscal year on, and to fund or replenish any
required reserves in accordance with the bond documents for, any bonds or other
obligations issued by, the Town of Nutter Fort, from time to time, including
any refunding bonds, to finance or refinance infrastructure improvements or
economic development projects or programs within the Town of Nutter Fort,
including the funding or replenishing of any reserve funds relating to any such
bonds or other obligations, and/or to make lease payments which repay the debt
service or otherwise secure bonds or other obligations issued to finance or
refinance infrastructure improvements or economic development projects and
programs within the Town of Nutter Fort;
      (2)   Second, for capital expenditures including but not limited to
infrastructure improvements with the Town of Nutter Fort;
      (3)   Third, to provide funding to assist with economic development
projects and programs or providing the opportunity for tax incentives to help
grow the town’s tax base and create jobs; and
      (4)   Fourth, any unencumbered revenue in the Town Sales and Use Tax Fund
may periodically be transferred as necessary or convenient to the town’s
General Revenue Account.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 12-8-2020), Utilities and Public Services Code
PART NINE: STREETS, UTILITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES CODE
CHAPTER ONE: STREETS AND SIDEWALK AREAS
ARTICLE 905: SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
Section
   
905.01   Maintenance of sidewalks
   
905.02   Order to construct sidewalk; curb
   
905.03   Construction by town
   
905.04   Costs
   
905.05   Standards
   
905.06   Permits
   
905.07   Duties of Street and Water Commissioner
   
905.08   Street obstructions
 
   
905.99   Penalty
Cross References
   General powers relative to sidewalks, curbs, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(1) et
seq.
   Low cost improvements, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-17
   Sidewalk assessments, see W.Va. Code Art. 8-18
§ 905.01 MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS.
   All sidewalks shall be kept clean and in good order by the owner or occupant
of the real property abutting thereon and whenever, in the opinion of the
Council, any sidewalk or sidewalks need cleaning, Council shall give the owner
or occupant of the abutting real property at least 48 hours’ notice requiring
such sidewalk to be cleaned and, if the owner or occupant of the abutting real
property shall fail or refuse to clean such sidewalk in the manner prescribed
in such notice and within the time required by the notice, the same may be done
by the town and the cost and expense thereof shall be assessed by Council
against such owner or occupant of the abutting real property and may be
collected in the same manner as fines and taxes are collected or by an action
at law in the name of the town against such owner or occupant for the amount
expended by the town in cleaning the sidewalk. All owners or occupants of
property abutting a sidewalk must clean sidewalk 24 hours after a snowfall, if
they fail to do so, the same may be done by the town and cost be assessed
against owner or occupant.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1968)
§ 905.02 ORDER TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK; CURB.
   Whenever Council, pursuant to the authority granted by state law, shall
require the owner or occupant of the real property abutting on any sidewalk to
curb, recurb, pave, repave, repair or construct such sidewalk or curb, it shall
cause an order to be entered in its minutes and a copy thereof to be served
upon such owner or occupant of such abutting property, requiring him or her to
curb, recurb, pave, repave, repair or construct, as the case may be, such
sidewalk and curb in the manner and form prescribed in this article within 30
days from the service of the copy of such order. Such order of Council shall,
in conformity with the provisions of this article, designate the kind of
material to be used, the dimensions, grade line and location of such sidewalk
and curb affected.
§ 905.03 CONSTRUCTION BY TOWN.
   Whenever the owner or occupant of the real property abutting on any sidewalk
shall fail or refuse to curb, recurb, pave, repave, repair or construct the
same and all necessary curbing adjacent thereto in the manner and in the time
required by Council, it shall be the duty of Council to cause such sidewalk to
be paved, repaved, repaired and constructed and necessary curbing or recurbing
done upon the most reasonable terms, and shall cause an itemized statement of
the expense thereof to be entered in the minutes of Council; and Council shall
assess the amount of such expense and cost against the owner or occupant of the
real property abutting such sidewalk and shall certify such assessment to the
Recorder for collection and require the same to be collected by the Recorder in
like manner as fines and taxes are collected. A copy of such order shall be
certified by the Recorder to the Clerk of the County Court. The expense and
cost incurred in the paving, repaving, repair or construction of such sidewalk,
or the curbing or recurbing adjacent thereto shall constitute a lien upon the
abutting property. The town may, at its election, sue such owner or occupant of
such abutting real property at law for the amount due for such construction or
repair of the sidewalk and curbing, or may institute a suit in chancery to
enforce the lien created by the paving, repaving, repair or construction of
such sidewalk and curbing or recurbing adjacent thereto against such abutting
real property in the same manner prescribed by law for the enforcement of liens
for state taxes.
§ 905.04 COSTS.
   All sidewalks shall be curbed, recurbed, paved, repaved, repaired and
constructed by the owner or occupant of the real property abutting thereon at
the cost and expense of such owner or occupant of the abutting real property.
§ 905.05 STANDARDS.
   (a)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of good concrete, with a proper
rock or stone base, and shall be constructed by capable workers according to
modern and improved methods of engineering and construction. All curbs shall be
constructed of good concrete by capable workers according to modern and
improved methods of engineering and construction. Sidewalks shall be not less
than three feet in width.
   (b)   All sidewalks and curbs shall be of uniform grade with the street or
alley abutting thereon, which such grade, if not already established, shall be
so established by proper order of Council prior to construction of any sidewalk
or curb abutting thereon.
§ 905.06 PERMITS.
   (a)   Any person desiring to curb, recurb, pave, repave, repair or construct
any sidewalk within the limits of the town shall secure a permit to do so from
Council before commencing such work and it shall be unlawful to commence or
proceed with such work unless such permit shall first be obtained.
   (b)   Any person desiring to secure such a permit from Council shall make
application in writing to Council. Such application shall contain the following
information: name of abutting property owner or occupant; location of sidewalk;
length of sidewalk; material of which it is to be constructed; estimated cost
to complete; whether or not grade and street line has been obtained from
Council; amount of grading or excavating necessary to conform to proper street
grade; estimated cost of necessary grading or excavating; and depth of concrete
and rock or stone base.
   (c)   No such permit shall be granted until the application is passed upon
by Council in regular session. No permit shall be issued for the construction
or repair of any sidewalk or curb which would violate any of the terms and
provisions of any of the sections of this article.
   (d)   Each and every permit issued under the provisions of this article
shall be subject to revocation by Council whenever it appears that the work for
which the permit has been issued is being conducted so as to violate any of the
terms of this article or any law relating to the same subject matter. The
revocation of the permit in every instance shall be in writing and shall be
served upon the abutting property owner or occupant, or the person who has
charge of the work, and from and after such revocation of such permit and the
serving of such notice, all labor shall be discontinued on the sidewalk for
which such permit was granted.
§ 905.07 DUTIES OF STREET AND WATER COMMISSIONER.
   The Street and Water Commissioner, whenever he or she observes a sidewalk or
curb in the process of construction or repair, shall ascertain if a permit to
do so has been procured and, if none has been procured, shall require a
cessation of the work thereon and immediately report the same to Council, and,
if required by Council, immediately cause a prosecution to be instituted for
violation of this article. It shall also be his or her duty to inspect all
sidewalks and curbs for which a permit has been issued during the continuation
of work thereon, to see that the terms and provisions of this article are
complied with, and whenever, in his or her opinion, the work thereon is being
conducted so as to violate any of the terms of this article or any law relating
to the same subject matter, he or she shall submit his or her findings to
Council for such action as it may deem advisable under the terms and provisions
of this article.
§ 905.08 STREET OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (a)   STREET, as used in this section, means any public thoroughfare, paved
or unpaved, within the town upon which vehicular traffic may move and is
intended to move, including alleys.
   (b)   In the event that travel in and upon the town streets is obstructed,
impeded, hindered, interfered with, or otherwise rendered unsafe in the manner
provided herein, notice shall be given to the offending person of such
violation, and it shall be the duty of such person to forthwith remove or
otherwise do away with such obstruction, impediment, hindrance, interference or
unsafe condition; and if such person shall fail or refuse to do so, the town
shall have the right to have such obstruction, impediment, hindrance,
interference or other unsafe condition removed or otherwise done away with, and
to charge to and collect from such person the cost thereof.
   (c)   No person shall plant, grow, maintain, suffer or permit to remain
within the town any tree, bush, shrub, vine or other growing matter which
obstructs, impedes, hinders, interferes with or otherwise renders unsafe travel
in and upon the town streets.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1972)
§ 905.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
101.99 of this code of ordinances for general code penalty.
ARTICLE 909: ABANDONMENT OF STREETS, ALLEYS OR PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
909.01   Petition to abandon
   
909.02   Deposit of costs; fees non-returnable
   
909.03   Referral to Town Engineer
   
909.04   Action by Council; hearing
   
909.05   Grounds for disapproval
   
909.06   Division of abandoned public way
   
909.07   Quitclaim deed
§ 909.01 PETITION TO ABANDON.
   (a)   Any person may file with the Town Recorder his or her petition, duly
verified, setting forth the facts and reasons for abandonment and vacation of
some street, alley or public way and request that the town abandon and vacate
the same and the interest of the petitioner in the abandonment and vacation.
Accompanying such petition shall be an engineer’s plat or map thereof showing
the portion of any street, alley or public way proposed to be abandoned,
together with the names and addresses of the abutting property owners; also
attached to such petition shall be letters or affidavits of the abutting
property owners showing their consent to the abandonment or vacation. In the
event the latter cannot be obtained, the reason for its omission shall be fully
indicated in the petition.
   (b)   Also accompanying such petition shall be sufficient information
documenting title of the abutting property owners, giving deed book, page, date
of deed and record date; the names of the grantor and grantee; will book, page
and date if it was by will; data as to inheritance if it was by inheritance and
all the information which would be necessary in order to identify and verify
the ownership of the persons desiring quitclaim deeds and also furnishing
sufficient information to the Town Engineer and Town Attorney for the
preparation of such deeds prior thereto.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
§ 909.02 DEPOSIT OF COSTS; FEES NON-RETURNABLE.
   (a)   The petitioner shall deposit, at the time of filing his or her
petition, the sum of $100, plus $25 for each quitclaim deed to cover the
administrative cost, cost of publication, the costs of preparation of the deeds
and recordation thereof.
   (b)   No part of the filing fee paid pursuant to this section shall be
returnable to the applicant or petitioner.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
§ 909.03 REFERRAL TO TOWN ENGINEER.
   Upon receipt of the petition hereinbefore mentioned, the Recorder shall
present the same to Council. Council shall then, by motion, refer the petition
to the Town Engineer for consideration and recommendation. The Town Engineer
shall ascertain and determine whether the street, alley or public way serves or
is expected to serve any public purpose. The recommendation of the Town
Engineer shall be in writing and shall accompany the petition and be returned
to Council. The recommendation of the Town Engineer shall be advisory only.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
§ 909.04 ACTION BY COUNCIL; HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the return of the petition and the recommendation of the
Town Engineer, Council shall consider an ordinance providing for the vacation
and abandonment of the street, alley or public way. A public hearing thereon
shall be held in the same manner as that for an ordinance for raising revenue,
per W.Va. Code § 8-11-4(a)(2).
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
§ 909.05 GROUNDS FOR DISAPPROVAL.
   Council shall not approve an abandonment or vacation of any street, alley or
public way under the following conditions:
   (a)   If the street, alley or public way serves or is expected to serve any
public purpose;
   (b)   If any person or property, not consenting to such vacation or
abandonment, is found to suffer special damage;
   (c)   If the vacation or abandonment will landlock or make inaccessible any
property, where the owners thereof have not consented; or
   (d)   If the vacation or abandonment unreasonably impedes the flow of
traffic.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
§ 909.06 DIVISION OF ABANDONED PUBLIC WAY.
   Unless otherwise agreed by the owners of the property abutting thereon, the
street, alley or public way shall be divided along the centerline, with each
abutting property owner taking such portion thereof to the centerline.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
§ 909.07 QUITCLAIM DEED.
   The ordinance vacating and abandoning the street, alley or public way shall
provide that the Mayor execute and deliver to the proper party a quitclaim deed
for that portion of the street, alley or public way to go to such property
owner.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
ARTICLE 911: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
911.01   Permit
   
911.02   Application for permit
   
911.03   Granting of permit; cash deposit or bond
   
911.04   Manner of work; restoration of surface
   
911.05   Safeguards; footbridges
   
911.06   Bridges over excavations in roadways
   
911.07   Safeguards relating to sidewalk excavations
   
911.08   Handling of dirt from excavations
   
911.09   Railroads and public utilities
   
911.10   State permit required
   
911.11   Non-liability of town
 
   
911.99   Penalty
§ 911.01 PERMIT.
   No person shall cut or otherwise damage, excavate, occupy or obstruct in any
manner, any street, sidewalk or public place within the town for the purpose of
connecting property with water, sewer or gas lines thereunder, or for any other
purpose, except pursuant to a permit as provided in this article.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to cut, open, obstruct, occupy or excavate any street,
sidewalk or public place, whether paved or unpaved, in the town, for any
purpose, shall apply to the town for a permit to do so. The application shall
be in form as prescribed by the town and shall contain such pertinent
information as may be required, including, but not limited to, the following:
the purpose of the proposed excavation; the site at which the work is to be
done; the date work is to begin and the expected duration of the work; and the
name and address of the person for whose benefit the proposed work is to be
done and who shall be responsible for all required safeguards, the diligent
prosecution of the work, the restoration of the surface, the payment of all
expenses incurred and compliance with all requirements of this article and the
application shall be signed by such person or by someone authorized by him or
her, or by the plumber or other contractor employed by him or her to do the
work.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.03 GRANTING OF PERMIT; CASH DEPOSIT OR BOND.
   (a)   No excavation permit shall be granted unless it appears to the
satisfaction of the Maintenance Supervisor that the excavation is necessary for
the health, safety or welfare of the person upon whose behalf the excavation is
to be made; and the connection of property to a water, sewer or gas main shall
be deemed sufficient under this subsection (a).
   (b)   No excavation permit shall be granted until the applicant therefor, or
someone on his or her behalf, has made a cash deposit or given bond to the town
in such amount as may be deemed by the Maintenance Supervisor sufficient to
cover the cost of safeguards, disposal of excavated dirt and the like and
restoration of the surface of the place of excavation to as good condition as
it was prior to the making of the excavation. Each such bond shall be payable
to the town, shall have corporate surety, shall be approved by the Town
Attorney and shall be conditioned that the work be diligently and skillfully
prosecuted, subject to foreseeable circumstances beyond control of the person
doing the work, that all necessary safeguards be maintained, that all excavated
materials not required for refill be disposed of as provided in this article,
that the surface of the place of excavation and not less than ten feet in all
directions from the outer perimeter thereof be placed in as good condition as
it was immediately prior to the commencement of the work and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Maintenance Supervisor, that all requirements of this
article be complied with, and that any defective work which appears within five
years from the day of acceptance of restoration by the Maintenance Supervisor
shall be subject to repair by the town at the expense of the permit holder.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.04 MANNER OF WORK; RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   Any person making an excavation shall do the work in a careful, workmanlike
manner and shall diligently prosecute such work to completion without undue
delay. Materials used and methods employed in filling, tamping and closing
excavations and in restoring the surface shall comply with all requirements of
the town.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.05 SAFEGUARDS; FOOTBRIDGES.
   All excavation sites shall be provided with all necessary safety devices to
protect persons and animals from falling into ditches or pits. Such devices
shall include, but not exclusively, warning signs, lamps and barricades; and,
where practicable, secure planking for pedestrians to cross upon, which shall
be well lighted the entire way between the period from sunset to sunrise,
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.06 BRIDGES OVER EXCAVATIONS IN ROADWAYS.
   Between the hours of sunset and sunrise, upon bridges for maintaining
traffic over excavations, the roadway shall be indicated by a sufficient number
of green lights so as to clearly identify the course of the roadway and the
edges thereof; and the edges of the bridge itself shall be indicated by red
lights.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.07 SAFEGUARDS RELATING TO SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS.
   All persons causing any excavations to be made for sidewalks shall have the
place of excavation property graded and protected, and shall properly barricade
such place for the protection of the public. Whenever necessary, they shall, at
their own expense, properly erect masonry or steel construction or a sufficient
retaining wall to properly support the adjoining earth. Such retaining wall
shall be properly coped or provided with an iron railing to guarantee safety to
the public.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.08 HANDLING OF DIRT FROM EXCAVATIONS.
   (a)   Each person engaged in excavating or having charge or control of
excavation, or who may be engaged in or may have charge or control of conveying
material from excavations, shall exercise reasonable care to prevent the
deposit, in any manner, upon the surface of a sidewalk or any paved street or
other public place, either by placing, spilling, dropping or tracking from
wheels of vehicles or from the feet of animals, any earth, clay, mud, sand,
gravel or other excavated material; and all such excavated materials spilled or
dropped upon any street, sidewalk or other such place from any such vehicle or
tracked thereon from wheels of vehicles or the feet of animals shall be removed
without delay by the driver of the vehicle or animal involved.
   (b)   The excavations referred to in this section include those made in
private property as well as in public property.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.09 RAILROADS AND PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prevent Council from
entering into agreements with railroad and public utility companies which may
exclude therefrom, or grant them deviations from, the provisions of this
article when, in the judgment of Council, it is in the public interest to do so
and the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the town will be
adequately safeguarded.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.10 STATE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No permit shall be granted under this article to excavate within any street
or right-of-way which is a part of the state highway system, except upon
display to the Maintenance Supervisor a permit to do so issued by competent
authority of the state.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.11 NON-LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   No permit issued, inspection made or approval given by the Maintenance
Supervisor, his or her agents or employees pursuant to this article shall be
construed as imposing any liability whatever upon the town for injury to any
person or damages to any property which may occur by reason of any wrongful or
negligent act or omission during the progress of any work under this article.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
§ 911.99 PENALTY.
   Editor’s Note:
      See §
101.99 of this code of ordinances for general codified ordinances penalty.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2006)
ARTICLE 913: SERVICE CHARGE FOR STREETS
Section
   
913.01   Municipal fee
   
913.02   Billing
   
913.03   Definition of “user”
   
913.04   Establishment
   
913.05   Report to Council
   
913.06   Duty of Treasurer
   
913.07   Exemptions
 
   
913.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Special charges for municipal services, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
§ 913.01 MUNICIPAL FEE.
   (a)   There is hereby levied and shall be collected a charge against
residential, commercial, industrial and recreational locations and
establishments which are users of municipal services situated within the Town
of Nutter Fort. The fee shall be for the purpose of street resurfacing, street
repairs and materials directly related to street improvements and maintenance.
The fee shall be for the purpose of street improvements and maintenance
including, street resurfacing, street repairs and materials, directly related
to street improvements and maintenance. The fee for such service shall be at
the following rates for each single-family unit residence, per unit, and for
each multiple-family dwelling or apartment house, per each residential unit or
apartment, whether or not occupied, and for each commercial, recreational and
industrial establishment, whether or not occupied.
   (b)   Monthly fee:
      (1)   Monthly residential: $10 fee;
      (2)   Monthly commercial: $10 base fee, plus $0.05 per square feet
annually of building or business;
      (3)   Monthly industrial: $10 base fee, plus $0.05 per square feet
annually of building or business; and
      (4)   Monthly recreational: $10 base fee, plus $0.05 per square feet
annually of building or business.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.02 BILLING.
   (a)   The Treasurer’s office shall be charged with the duty of mailing a
statement on a monthly basis to each person or business establishment to be
charged with the municipal street fee hereby imposed for the fee due for the
current month, but failure to mail any statement for monthly charges shall not
be grounds for avoiding payment. A statement shall be mailed by the Treasurer’s
office once each month to the last address on file for the resident/business
establishment. A statement may be mailed each month and any such statements may
be consolidated with statements for other municipal services due from such
person or business establishment, or it may be mailed as a separate statement.
The statement shall be mailed each month on a date selected by the Treasurer or
Recorder, but the Treasurer or Recorder shall render the monthly billing to
such person or business establishment in a uniform manner, so that each monthly
bill is mailed at intervals of approximately 30 days.
   (b)   Calculation of fees for square footage of structures will be based on
records obtained from the Harrison County Assessor’s Office.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.03 DEFINITION OF “USER”.
   (a)   For purposes of this article, USER refers to any person, firm,
corporation or governmental entity of any kind owning any building or
structure, whether residential, commercial, governmental or otherwise, which
reside or are located within the town limits of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   Subject to such reasonable regulations as may be decided by the
Treasurer or Recorder, the record owner of the property upon which a single-
family residence is situated shall be considered the user of municipal service
rendered for the benefit of said property and the record owner shall be liable
to the Town of Nutter Fort for charges. Landlords, and their tenants or
occupants of the residential units of a multi-family dwelling or apartment
house, shall be considered the “users” of such municipal services and shall be
liable to the Town of Nutter Fort for said charges. Persons doing business as
partners in a business establishment shall be jointly and severally liable for
said charges. However, in the event that a residential unit of a multi-family
dwelling or apartment house is unoccupied, then the owner of record of the
property upon which said multi-family dwelling or apartment is situated shall
be considered the user of the residential services and shall be liable to the
Town of Nutter Fort for said charges. Subject to such reasonable regulations as
may be promulgated by the Treasurer or Recorder, the owner of record of the
property upon which such multi-family dwelling or apartment house is situated
shall be charged with the responsibility of collecting charges imposed by this
article from tenants or occupants of such dwelling units or apartments and
properly remitting same to the Treasurer or Recorder and shall be liable to the
Town of Nutter Fort in the amount of said charges.
   (c)   MULTI-PURPOSE (MULTI-USE) PROPERTIES shall be defined as those which
are divided. For example: single or multi-family dwellings in addition to
business/commercial usage, or multiple business/commercial usage within the
same property. In said examples, the business owner/operator shall be liable to
the Town of Nutter Fort for said charges based on established fee schedule as
outlined in §
913.01 of this article. However, should said business move or be dissolved, the
owner of the property in which the business was situated shall be liable for
applicable residential or commercial fees, as defined.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.04 ESTABLISHMENT.
   On or after 7-1-2018, there is hereby established upon all users a municipal
service charge for streets for each lot or parcel of land containing any
building or structure. The rate for such fee is described is §
913.01 of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.05 REPORT TO COUNCIL.
   (a)   The Treasurer or Recorder shall report monthly to the Town Council a
report of income and expenditures along with a running balance for the
municipal service fee for street paving account.
   (b)   The Treasurer or Recorder shall, within 60 days after the end of each
fiscal year, report to the Town Council a list of all persons and business
establishments who are delinquent in the payment of the municipal service fee
for streets or any portion thereof for the preceding fiscal year and the Town
Council shall, by resolution, direct the Treasurer or Recorder or other
municipal employees to take such action as the Town Council deems advisable and
necessary in regard to the payment of such delinquent fees. This may include
placing a lien against the real property and/or submitting the debt to
collections.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.06 DUTY OF TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall deposit collected funds from such fee into a separate
interest-bearing account specifically designated for street paving and
improvements.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted:
   (a)   Bi-County Nutrition is a non-profit agency providing congregate and
home-delivered meals for senior citizens and their disabled, dependent children
in Harrison and Doddridge counties; and
   (b)   Structures owned by the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
§ 913.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to pay, collect or remit
the street maintenance and improvement fee herein provided to be paid,
collected and remitted as required by this article or to evade the payment of
the street maintenance and improvement fee or any part thereof; or for any
person to aid or abet another in any attempt to falsely collect moneys with the
intent to evade or give false intent regarding the payment of the street
maintenance and improvement fee.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction
thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined on an annual basis not
more than $500.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2018)
CHAPTER THREE: UTILITIES
ARTICLE 921: SEWERS
Section
   
921.01   Applicability
   
921.02   Availability
   
921.03   Rates
   
921.04   Connection fee
   
921.05   Billings and collections
   
921.06   Sewers and sewage disposal
   
921.07   Sewer use ordinance adopted
   
921.08   Reconnection service charge; administrative fee
   
921.09   Security deposits
§ 921.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This article is applicable for the entire territory served.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-25-2022; Ord. 2022-10, passed
12-13-2022; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-11-2023; Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 921.02 AVAILABILITY.
   Available for general domestic, commercial and industrial service.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-25-2022; Ord. 2022-10, passed
12-13-2022; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-11-2023; Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 921.03 RATES.
   (a)   Based upon metered volume of water supplied:
      (1)   First 2,000 gallons used per month: $30.17 per 1,000 gallons;
      (2)   Next 3,000 gallons used per month: $28.80 per 1,000 gallons;
      (3)   Next 5,000 gallons used per month: $27.62 per 1,000 gallons;
      (4)   Next 10,000 gallons used per month: $27.62 per 1,000 gallons;
      (5)   Next 25,000 gallons used per month: $26.45 per 1,000 gallons; and
      (6)   Next 45,000 gallons used per month: $24.43 per 1,000 gallons.
   (b)   No bill will be rendered for less than $60.34 per month.
   (c)   The above tariff is net. On all accounts not paid in full within 20
days of the date of bill, 10% will be added to the net amount shown. This
delayed payment penalty is not interest and is only to be collected once for
each bill where it is appropriate.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 2022-01, passed 1-25-2022; Ord. 2022-10, passed
12-13-2022; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-11-2023; Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 921.04 CONNECTION FEE.
   There will not be any connection fee for customers connected with the
existing sewer system. The minimum connection fee for a building or premises
connecting for the first time to the sewer facilities shall be $500 or the
actual cost of the tap (solely determined by the Town of Nutter Fort),
whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014)
§ 921.05 BILLINGS AND COLLECTIONS.
   (a)   The sewerage service charges, surcharges and fees shall be billed and
collected for the Sanitary Board by the Water Board. Billing and collections
shall be made pursuant to such terms, arrangements or agreements for the
reimbursement of cost and agreements as may be determined by contract between
the Sanitary Board and the Water Board. All sewage charges collected by the
Water Board shall be accounted for monthly and paid to the Sanitary Board. All
money received by the Sanitary Board shall be deposited to its credit and shall
be paid out on order of the Sanitary Board for such purposes as may be allowed
by law.
   (b)   (1)   In the event of default in the payment of any sewerage service
charges billed, as provided herein, and such default shall continue for a
period of 32 days after the same has become due, the Water Board shall proceed
to give the user of such service notice that unless such account has been paid
in full within the time provided by law and by the regulations of the Public
Service Commission of the State of West Virginia that water service will be
discontinued at such location until all water and sewerage service charges have
been paid in full.
      (2)   If the user of such service has not brought all payments up to date
by the time stated in such notice, then the Water Board shall forthwith
discontinue water service to that address until all payments for water and
sewerage services at such location have been fully paid.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014)
§ 921.06 SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner and/or contractor to
assure all construction projects related directly or indirectly to the Town of
Nutter Fort sanitary sewer system are in compliance with codes found in Art.
145, Sanitary Board, of this code of ordinances. Failure to be in compliance
may result in the workmanship failing to pass inspection and possible civil
and/or criminal penalties being enforced.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014)
§ 921.07 SEWER USE ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (a)   The Town of Nutter Fort resolves to adopt, in whole, the City of
Clarksburg’s Industrial Sewer Use Ordinance, as approved and amended by the
City of Clarksburg and the State of West Virginia Department of Environmental
Protection, as the ordinance governing non-domestic wastewater discharges
within the political boundaries of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   The Town of Nutter Fort has the understanding that under this section,
no person shall contribute, cause to be contributed or discharge any non-
domestic wastes to the public sanitary sewage facilities of the Town of Nutter
Fort, except in accordance with the Industrial Sewer Use Ordinance, as adopted
and amended.
   (c)   The Town of Nutter Fort has the understanding that, under this
section, non-domestic facilities discharging or contributing wastewater to the
public sanitary sewage system will be under a permit with specific limitations
issued, enforced and maintained by the Clarksburg Sanitary Board.
(Ord. passed 3-24-1998; Ord. passed 6-16-2014)
§ 921.08 RECONNECTION SERVICE CHARGE; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   There shall be a reconnection charge of $25, which shall be paid prior to
restoration of water service previously disconnected for non-payment of sewer
charges. In the event the delinquent sewer bill is collected by the town in the
field, an administrative fee of $25 shall be charged.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014)
§ 921.09 SECURITY DEPOSITS.
   Customer deposits for municipalities are now $50 or two months of average
annual usage of the applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater.
This deposit is returned after 12 consecutive timely payments; provided that,
where the customer is a tenant, the municipality or governing body is not
required to return the deposit until the time the tenant discontinues service
with the municipality.
(Ord. passed 6-16-2014)
ARTICLE 925: WATER
Section
   
925.01   Rates
   
925.02   Billings
Cross References
   Deposit limitations, see W.Va. Code § 24-3-8
   Discontinuance for non-payment, see W.Va. Code § 8-19-13
   Power to collect, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(32), Art. 8-19
   Review by Public Service Commission, see W.Va. Code § 24-2-4(b)
§ 925.01 RATES.
   (a)   Schedule I.
      (1)   Applicability. This subsection (a) is applicable within the entire
territory served.
      (2)   Availability. Available for general domestic, commercial and
industrial service.
      (3)   Rates.
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons used per month: $15.90 per 1,000 gallons;
         (b)   Next 3,000 gallons used per month: $14.85 per 1,000 gallons;
         (c)   Next 15,000 gallons used per month: $10.88 per 1,000 gallons;
and
         (d)   All over 20,000 gallons used per month: $9.55 per 1,000 gallons.
      (4)   Minimum charge. No bill will be rendered for less than the
following amounts, according to the size of the meter, to-wit:
         (a)   Five-eighths-inch by three-fourths-inch meter: $31.80 per month;
         (b)   Three-fourths-inch meter: $47.70 per month;
         (c)   One-inch meter: $79.50 per month;
         (d)   One and one-half-inch meter: $159.00 per month;
         (e)   Two-inch meter: $254.40 per month;
         (f)   Three-inch meter: $508.80 per month;
         (g)   Four-inch meter: $795.00 per month; and
         (h)   Six-inch meter: $1,590.00 per month.
      (5)   Leak adjustment. Four dollars and sixty-five cents per 1,000
gallons is to be used where a bill reflects unusual consumption which can be
attributed to eligible leakage on the customer’s side of the meter. This rate
shall be applied to all such consumption above the customer’s historical
average usage.
      (6)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all accounts
not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net current amount unpaid.
This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be collected only once
for each bill where it is appropriate.
      (7)   Reconnection. To be charged whenever the supply of water is turned
off for violation of rules, non-payment of bills or fraudulent use of water:
$75.
      (8)   Tap fee. The following charges are to be made whenever the utility
installs a new tap to serve an applicant. A tap fee of $500 or the actual cost
of the tap (solely determined by the Town of Nutter Fort), whichever is
greater, will be charged to all customers who apply for service outside a
certificate proceeding before the Commission for each new tap to the system.
      (9)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
assessed to the utility or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
      (10)   Security deposits. Customer deposits for municipalities are now
$50 or two months of average annual usage of applicant’s specific customer
class, whichever is greater. This deposit is returned after 12 consecutive
timely payments; provided that, where the customer is a tenant, the
municipality or governing body is not required to return the deposit until the
time the tenant discontinues service with the municipality.
      (11)   Resident’s responsibility. A fee of $50 will be charged to
customers for call outs after working hours or on holidays for problems other
than the town’s responsibility. This charge will be assessed, if the problem is
the residents and is so determined at the time of the call out by the utility.
      (12)   Convenience fee. A fee of $3 will be charged to customers that use
a credit card (Mastercard or Visa) and online check for payment of a bill.
   (b)   Schedule II.
      (1)   Applicability. This subsection (b) is applicable within the entire
territory served.
      (2)   Availability. Available for resale customers.
      (3)   Rates. Six dollars and eighty-nine cents per 1,000 gallons used per
month, includes $0.465 per 1,000 gallons transportation charge.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2014; Ord. 2021-06, passed 8-10-2021; Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-
24-2023; Ord. 2024-05, passed 6-25-2024)
§ 925.02 BILLINGS.
   (a)   Rates. All persons using or consuming water taken from town mains
shall pay for such service in accordance with the tariff from time to time
fixed by the Public Service Commission.
   (b)   Discontinuance of service upon non-payment of water bill. The two is
hereby authorized to discontinue the supply of waste to any customer who fails
to pay water bills as required; provided that, the town shall not discontinue
the water supply of any consumer for failure to pay bills without the Town
Treasurer first having diligently tried to induce the consumer to pay such
bills and until after at least 24 hours’ written notice to the consumer.
   (c)   Liability of landlord for delinquency of tenant. The town is hereby
authorized to collect from any person owning property on which water taken from
town mains is used or consumed the cost of water furnished to any occupant or
tenant of such property and not paid for by the tenant or occupant; provided
that, the owner shall not become liable for the cost of water to any tenant or
occupant until the Town Treasurer shall have diligently tried to induce such
tenant or occupant to pay for same and until after at least 60 days from the
date of billing.
   (d)   Refusal of service to property when bill unpaid for other property
under same ownership. Any person owning or occupying property in the town on
which water taken from town mains is used or consumed for which there are
unpaid water bills outstanding may, within the discretion of Council, be
refused future water service at any other location served by town water until
such bills are paid.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1984)
ARTICLE 929: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
929.01   Purpose
   
929.02   Authority
   
929.03   Responsibility
   
929.04   Definitions
   
929.05   Administration
   
929.06   Requirements
   
929.07   Degree of hazard
   
929.08   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
929.09   Periodic testing
   
929.10   Records
§ 929.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is:
   (a)   To protect the public potable water supply served by the Clarksburg
Water Board to the Town of Nutter Fort from the possibility of contamination or
pollution by isolating, within its customers internal distribution system, such
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back-siphon into the public
water system;
   (b)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between its customers in-plant potable water system and
non-potable systems; and
   (c)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of all potable water systems by cross-connection.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.02 AUTHORITY.
   By authority of the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 300f et seq., and W.Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 1, and public health laws, West
Virginia Bureau of Public Health Ch. 1, Art. 5B, the Town of Nutter Fort has
the primary responsibility for preventing water from unapproved sources, or any
other substances, from entering the public potable water system.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Town of Nutter Fort (water purveyor) shall be responsible for the
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to the backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection, if, in the judgment of the
Town of Nutter Fort, an approved backflow device is required at the water
service connection to any customer’s premises, the Town of Nutter Fort, or its
delegated agent, shall give notice in writing to said customer to install an
approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to his or her
premises. The customer shall, within 90 days, install such approved device, or
devices, at his or her own expense, and failure or refusal, or inability on the
part of the customer to install said device or devices within 90 days, shall
constitute a ground for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been properly installed.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Town of Nutter Fort as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this regulation or as suitable for the
proposed purpose.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the Town of Nutter Fort’s approved public potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances, under
positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a potable water
supply from any source other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means designed to prevent backflow or back-
siphonage. Most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced pressure principle
device, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker, atmospheric
vacuum breaker, hose bibb vacuum breaker, residential dual check, double check
with intermediate atmospheric vent and barometric loop.
      (1)   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow
between the free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any
other system. Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of
the supply side pipe diameter, but never less than one inch.
      (2)   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents back-siphonage
by creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or
sub-atmospheric pressure in a water system.
      (3)   BAROMETRIC LOOP. A fabricated piping arrangement rising at least 35
feet at its topmost point above the highest fixture it supplies, it is utilized
in water supply systems to protect against back-siphonage.
      (4)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently
operating spring loaded check valves with tightly-closing shutoff valves on
each side of the check valves and properly located test cocks for the testing
of each check valve.
      (5)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device
having two spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
      (6)   HOSE BIBB VACUUM BREAKER. A device which is permanently attached to
a hose bibb and which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
      (7)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device containing one or two
independently operated spring loaded check valves and an independently operated
spring loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check or
checks. The device includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the
check valves and properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valve
(s).
      (8)   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly
consisting of two independently operating approved check valves with an
automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two check
valves, tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check valves, plus
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief
valve.
      (9)   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK. An assembly of two spring-loaded,
independently operating check valves without tightly-closing shut-off valves
and test cocks. Generally employed immediately downstream of the water meter to
act as a containment device.
   BACKPRESSURE. A condition in which the owners system pressure is greater
than the suppliers system pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure in
the potable water supply system.
   CONTAINMENT. A method of backflow prevention which requires a backflow
prevention device at the water service entrance.
   CONTAMINANT. A substance that will impair the quality of the water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection between the public
water supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
   FIXTURE ISOLATION. A method of backflow prevention in which a backflow
preventer is located to correct a cross-connection at an in-plant location
rather than at a water service entrance.
   OWNER. Any person who has a legal title to, or license to operate or reside
in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or upon
which a cross-connection is present.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private corporation,
political subdivision or agency of the state department, agency or
instrumentality or the united states or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. A foreign substance, which if permitted to get into the public
water system, will degrade its quality to constitute a moderate hazard, or
impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
   WATER PURVEYOR or PURVEYOR. Town of Nutter Fort, which is invested with the
authority and responsibility for the implementation of a cross-connection
control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. The point in the owner’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the water purveyor, generally considered to be the outlet
end of the water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
   WEST VIRGINIA BUREAU FOR PUBLIC HEALTH (WVBPH). The State of West Virginia
Bureau for Public Health.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The water purveyor will operate a cross-connection control program, to
include the keeping of necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of
the West Virginia Board of Public Health’s cross-connection and backflow
prevention regulations.
   (b)   The owner shall allow his or her property to be inspected for possible
cross-connections and shall follow the provisions of the water purveyor’s
program and the West Virginia Board of Public Health regulations if a cross-
connection is permitted.
   (c)   If the water purveyor requires that the public supply be protected by
containment, the owner shall be responsible for water quality beyond the outlet
end of the containment device and should utilize fixture outlet protection for
that purpose, the owner may utilize local public health officials, or personnel
from the water purveyor or their designated representatives, to assist him or
her in the survey of his or her facilities and to assist him or her in the
selection of proper fixture outlet devices and the proper installation of these
devices.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.06 REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Water purveyor.
      (1)   On new installations, the water purveyor will provide on-site
evaluation and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of
backflow preventer, if any, that will be required and will perform inspection
and testing.
      (2)   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the water
purveyor will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises and
inform the owner by letter of any corrective action deemed necessary, the
method of achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the correction to
be made, ordinarily, 90 days will be allowed. However, this period may be
shortened depending upon the degree of hazard involved and the history of the
device(s) in question.
      (3)   The water purveyor will not allow cross-connection to remain unless
it is protected by an approved backflow preventer which will be regularly
tested to ensure satisfactory operation.
      (4)   The water purveyor shall inform the owner by letter, of any failure
to comply, by the time of the first re-inspection. The water purveyor will
allow an additional 15 days for the correction, in the event the owner fails to
comply with the necessary correction by the time of the second re-inspection,
the water purveyor will inform the owner by letter, that the water service to
the owner’s premises will be terminated within a period not to exceed five
days, in the event the owner informs the water purveyor of extenuating
circumstances as to why the correction has not been made, a time extension may
be granted by the water purveyor, but in no case will exceed an additional 30
days.
      (5)   If the water purveyor determines at any time that a serious threat
to the public health exists, the water service shall be terminated immediately.
      (6)   The water purveyor will begin initial premises inspections to
determine the nature of existing or potential hazards, initial focus will be on
high hazard industries and commercial premises.
   (b)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or protection of
cross-connections on his or her premises.
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from water
purveyor, shall at his or her expense, install, maintain and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventers on his or her premises.
      (3)   The owner shall correct any malfunction of the backflow preventer
which is revealed by periodic testing.
      (4)   The owner shall inform the water purveyor of any proposed or
modified cross-connections and any existing cross-connections of which the
owner is aware, but have not been found by the water purveyor.
      (5)   The owner shall not install a bypass around any backflow preventer
unless there is a backflow preventer of the same type on the bypass. Owners who
cannot shut down operation for testing of the device(s) must supply additional
devices necessary to allow testing to take place.
      (6)   The owner shall install backflow preventers in a manner approved by
the water purveyor.
      (7)   The owner shall install only backflow preventers in a manner
approved by the water purveyor or the West Virginia Board of Public Health.
      (8)   Any owner having a private well or other private water source must
have the approval of the water purveyor and the West Virginia Board of Public
Health if the well or source is cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system.
Permission to cross-connect may be denied. The owner may be required to install
a backflow preventer at the service entrance if a private water source is
maintained, even if it is not cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system.
      (9)   In the event owner installs plumbing to provide potable water for
domestic purposes which is on water purveyor’s side of the backflow preventer,
such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer installed.
      (10)   The owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
permits, annual or semi-annual device testing, retesting in the case that the
device fails to operate correctly and second re-inspections for non-compliance
with the water purveyor or West Virginia Board of Public Health’s regulations.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.07 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The water purveyor recognizes the threat to the public water system arising
from cross-connections. All threats will be classified by degree of hazard and
will require the installation of approved backflow prevention devices.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.08 EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow preventer shall be allowed by the water purveyor to
continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the
effectiveness of the present backflow preventer, or result in an unreasonable
risk to the public health, where the degree of hazard has increased, as in the
case of a residential installation converting to a business establishment, any
existing backflow preventer must be upgraded to a reduced pressure principle
device, or a reduced pressure principle device must be installed in the event
that no backflow device is present.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.09 PERIODIC TESTING.
   (a)   Backflow prevention devices shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
   (b)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a West Virginia Board of Public
Health certified tester. This testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
   (c)   Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will be
repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the repair
the device will be retested at owner’s expense to ensure correct operation.
High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue unprotected if the
backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately, in other
situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test date will
be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair tools or a
replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an effective means
of the owner ensuring the uninterrupted water service during the testing or
repair of devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires such
continuity.
   (d)   Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than
specified in subsection (a) above, in cases where there is a history of test
failures and the water purveyor feels that due to the degree of hazard
involved, additional testing is warranted, cost of the additional tests will be
borne by the owner.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
§ 929.10 RECORDS.
   (a)   The water purveyor will initiate and maintain the following:
      (1)   Master files on customer cross-connections;
      (2)   Master files on customer cross-connection tests and/or inspections;
and
      (3)   Copies of lists and summaries supplied to the West Virginia Board
of Public Health.
   (b)   Upon request, the water purveyor will submit records of inspection,
surveys, tests or corrective actions to the West Virginia Board of Public
Health.
(Ord. 1141, passed 11-22-2005)
ARTICLE 951: REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
951.01   Definitions
   
951.02   Department of Waste Collection
   
951.03   Precollection practices
   
951.04   Prohibited disposal of refuse
   
951.05   Depositing of refuse so as to prevent dissemination by wind and the
like
   
951.06   Duty of owners or occupants to maintain premises
   
951.07   Notice to abate violation; abatement by town
   
951.08   Compliance
   
951.09   Containers
   
951.10   Collection service; town has monopoly
   
951.11   Collection practices
   
951.12   Rates
   
951.13   Recycling program
 
   
951.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Loads dropping or leaking, see Part Three, §
347.04
   Placing material in streets, see Part Three, §
311.01
   Power to regulate, see W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-5(10) et seq.
§ 951.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ASHES. Residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other combustible
materials.
   GARBAGE. Every refuse accumulation of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter,
liquid or otherwise, that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or
storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables, and containers originally
used for foodstuffs.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish, or both.
   RUBBISH. All other solid waste material and refuse of every character
accumulated, including trash, debris, yard waste, ashes, or similar substances.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1977; Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.02 DEPARTMENT OF WASTE COLLECTION.
   (a)   Created; duties generally. There is created within the town, a
Department of Waste which shall be charged with the responsibility of
collecting, removing, and disposing of refuse produced in the residences and
commercial establishments of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   Supervision. The Department of Waste shall be under the supervision
and direction of the Director of Public Works.
   (c)   Rules and regulations. The Director of Public Works shall have
authority to make regulations concerning the days of collection, type and
location of refuse containers, placement of refuse containers and such other
matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance, and disposal of garbage,
refuse and waste as shall be necessary, and to change and modify the same after
reasonable notice; provided such regulations are not contrary to the laws of
the state and the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (d)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a regulation of, or fee charged by
the Department of Waste shall have the right to appeal to the Mayor, who shall
have the authority to confirm, modify or revoke any such regulation or fee.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1977; Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.03 PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (a)   Separation of refuse and ashes. Refuse and ashes shall each be placed
and maintained in separate containers.
   (b)   Preparation of refuse and rubbish.
      (1)   Garbage. All garbage shall have all free liquids drained from it
and shall be in an approved trash bag before being placed in a garbage can for
collection.
      (2)   Rubbish. All rubbish shall be drained of free liquids before being
deposited for collection.
         (a)   Cans and bottles. All cans and bottles shall be emptied before
being deposited for collection.
         (b)   Trimmings and clippings. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings and
similar material shall be cut to lengths not to exceed three feet and securely
tied in bundles not more than two feet thick before being deposited for
collection.
   (c)   Unauthorized accumulations. Any accumulation of refuse contrary to any
provision of this chapter on any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and is prohibited.
   (d)   Time limit on accumulations. No person shall suffer or permit any
garbage to accumulate and remain on the premises in containers, or otherwise,
longer than a period of one week in any event.
   (e)   Time restrictions for setting-out garbage, trash, recycling, and other
materials for collections.
      (1)   All residential garbage, trash, recycling, and yard waste
collections will be normally made between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
on the designated collection day. Refuse containers, bulky waste, recycling
containers, and/or yard waste containers shall be set out at the refuse
collection site, curbside or alley, as appropriate, on the designated
collection day before 7:00 a.m. and no earlier than 4:00 p.m. of the day
preceding the regular collection day.
      (2)   Refuse containers, garbage cans, recycling containers, and/or yard
waste containers shall be removed from the refuse collection site no later than
8:00 p.m. on the day of the regular collection. The occupant of the property
shall promptly clean up and remove any scattered solid waste, rejected items,
recyclable material and/or yard waste from the property before 9:00 p.m. on the
day of the scheduled date of regular collection.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1977; Ord. passed 3-26-1991; Ord. passed 5-13-1997; Ord.
2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.04 PROHIBITED DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit any refuse in any street or upon any
sidewalk or other public space, or upon any private property whether owned by
him or her or not, within the town except it be in proper containers for
collection as provided in this chapter, or under express approval granted by
the Director of Public Works; nor shall any person throw or deposit any refuse
in any stream, reservoir, well, cistern or other body of water.
   (b)   No person shall sweep any refuse from any premises onto any sidewalk,
street or public way withing the town or shall wash any refuse across any
sidewalk into any street, highway or other public place.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.05 DEPOSITING OF REFUSE SO AS TO PREVENT DISSEMINATION BY WIND AND THE
LIKE.
   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the town any
refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements of
nature upon any street, sidewalk, sewer, parkway, or other public place or into
any occupied premises within the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.06 DUTY OF OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS TO MAINTAIN PREMISES.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant and person in charge of
any premises within the Town of Nutter Fort to maintain such premises free of
any accumulation of garbage, rubbish or other refuse which constitutes a fire
or health hazard, or which is dangerous to person, or which otherwise
constitutes a nuisance.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant and person in charge of
any premises within the town to maintain such premises free of noxious weeds,
undergrowth and other vegetation which affords a harboring or breeding place
for vermin, insects, rodents or reptiles; and grass which is eight inches or
more in height, not grown for agricultural or horticultural purposes, shall be
deemed UNDERGROWTH within the meaning of this subsection (b).
   (c)   No person shall suffer or permit any refuse to accumulate and remain
on any premises owned or occupied by him or her or in her or his charge or
custody, whether or not such refuse is in containers, for a period of more than
one week in any case.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.07 NOTICE TO ABATE VIOLATION; ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (a)   Upon investigation and finding by any town officer that any premises
within the town is being maintained contrary to any provision of §
951.06, the Mayor, Director of Public Works, and Code Official, is hereby
vested with authority to give written notice, which may be served in any manner
authorized by law, to the owner, occupant or person in charge of such premises,
or to any two or all three of them, believed to be responsible for such
violation.
   (b)   This notice shall specify the condition which constitutes the
violation and shall direct the addressee to abate such violation within a
period of time which shall be stated therein, and which shall be not less than
three days nor more than ten days after service of such notice has been
accomplished. Such notice shall also warn the addressee that failure to comply
with the directive contained therein shall subject him or her to prosecution
for a violation of §
951.08 and, in addition shall render him or her liable to the town for any
costs and expenses which may be incurred by the town in the abatement of such
violation under the provisions of subsection (c) below.
   (c)   If, upon the expiration of the time specified in any such notice for
the abatement of an existing condition such condition has not been abated, the
Mayor, Director of Public Works, or Code Official shall provide for the
abatement of such condition by the most expedient means, and the costs and
expenses thereby incurred shall be collection by the Town Treasurer from the
delinquent addressee of such notice in any manner provided by law for the
recovery of taxes, charges or other debts due the town.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
article.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.09 CONTAINERS.
   (a)   Condition. Refuse containers shall be provided by the Town of Nutter
Fort in a good condition and be free from ragged or sharp edges or any other
defect liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof.
   (b)   Duty to maintain. Refuse containers shall be maintained by the owner,
tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises in a neat, clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
   (c)   Type and capacity.
      (1)   Refuse. Refuse containers shall be made of plastic, commercial
dumpsters will be of metal or other material approved by the Department of
Waste Collection and be equipped with suitable handles and tight fitting covers
and be water-tight and have a capacity of 96 gallons.
   (d)   Points of collection. Refuse containers shall be placed for collection
at the curb line of the street or alley from which collection is made.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1977; Ord. passed 5-13-1997; Ord. passed 11-22-2011; Ord.
2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.10 COLLECTION SERVICE; TOWN HAS MONOPOLY.
   All garbage, rubbish and refuse accumulated in the Town of Nutter Fort shall
be collected, conveyed, and disposed of by the Town of Nutter Fort and subject
to all the provisions of this article and all reasonable rules and regulations
at any time adopted by the Director or by Council. No person other than that of
the Town of Nutter Fort shall, for compensation, collect or convey over any of
the streets of the town any garbage, rubbish or refuse accumulated in the Town
of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.11 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (a)   Frequency.
      (1)   Residential. Refuse accumulated by residences shall be collected at
least once each week, unless more/less frequent collection is approved by the
Director because of weather conditions, emergency conditions or other good
cause.
      (2)   Commercial. Commercial establishments may enter into an agreement
for a greater frequency of collection. Where deemed necessary to protect the
public health, the Director shall have the authority to require more frequent
collections be made.
      (3)   Residential bulky item. Pickup of one bulky item per residence will
be picked up on the last Thursday of each month. Changes to pick up date will
be posted on the Town of Nutter Fort’s website and Facebook page. Items must be
placed at the curb. Items if applicable, must be drained of freon and tagged
appropriately.
      (4)   Yard waste. Collection of trimmings and clippings will occur on
recycling days as set by the Director and/or town officials.
   (b)   Limitations on quantity of refuse.
      (1)   Residential. The Department of Waste shall collect refuse of each
family or residential unit during a collection period, provided the same is
properly prepared, for the standard charge set forth in this article. The Waste
Department shall collect a reasonable accumulation of refuse, which shall be no
more one container and must be an approved, provided container, as specified in
§
951.09(c).
      (2)   Commercial. The Department of Waste shall collect a reasonable
accumulation of refuse of commercial establishments and institutions during the
collection period at a fair charge based upon the number of toters/dumpsters
per collection during the collection period, at the rates set forth in this
article. The Department of Waste shall have authority, when necessary to
protect public health, to require the collection of larger amounts and increase
the charges, according to the rates set forth in this article. No pickups will
be made for items not enclosed within the approved containers.
   (c)   Special problems.
      (1)   Contagious disease refuse. The disposal of wearing, bedding or
other refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious or contagious
diseases have prevailed, shall be performed under the supervision and direction
of the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (2)   Inflammable or explosive refuse. Highly inflammable or explosive
materials shall not be placed in containers for regular collection but shall be
disposed of as directed by the Department of Waste at the expense of the owner
or possessor thereof.
      (3)   Commercial waste collectors and the like. Commercial waste
collectors, collectors of materials for rendering purposes or collectors of
garbage for animal consumption may enter into a written agreement with the town
for the collection of paper salvage, materials to be used for rendering or
garbage to be used as feed for animals, at such times, under such circumstances
and at such charges as may be agreed upon.
(Ord. passed 9-20-1977; Ord. passed 5-13-1997; Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.12 RATES.
   (a)   Residential.
      (1)   For refuse placed at ground level and not more than 15 feet from
the side of the street or alley from a single-family unit shall be as follows
per month.
         (a)   Phase I - Rates effective May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023:
$18.37 per month.
         (b)   Phase II - Rates effective May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024:
$20.02 per month.
         (c)   Phase III - Rates effective May 1, 2024 through April 30, 2025:
$21.71 per month.
         (d)   Phase IV - Rates effective May 1, 2025: $23.38 per month.
      (2)   Additional container. If it is found that one container is of an
insufficient weekly service, an additional container may be obtained for an
additional $12.00/month service.
      (3)   Lost or stolen trash container. Lost or stolen trash containers
will cost the resident/tenant the full $70.00 for replacement plus $25.00
delivery charge if applicable.
      (4)   Disabled service. If there has been a special written and verified
application to the Mayor, or his or her designee, stating that all persons
residing at the residence of the applicant are, by reason of age, infirmity, or
other just causes, incapable of complying with the provisions of §
951.06(a), dealing with the placement of refuse, then the Mayor, or his or her
designee, may waive the provisions dealing with their placement and allow the
refuse to be removed from a location which is convenient for the applicant and
reasonably convenient for the refuse collector.
   (b)   Commercial, industrial, or institutional.
      (1)   For refuse placed at ground level and not over 15 feet from the
curb line of the street or alley from which collected:
Service Rate per Month
Service Rate per Month
Per collection                  Weekly Twice  Three  Four   Five
   1 toter                   28.82  57.64  86.46  115.28 144.10
   2 toters                  48.84  97.68  146.52 195.36 244.20
   3 toters                  65.75  131.50 197.25 263.00 328.75
   4 toters                  78.90  157.80 236.70 315.60 394.50
   5 toters                  94.68  189.36 284.04 378.72 473.40
8 yard container
   Cost: $3,097.00           179.33 358.66 538.00 717.33 896.67
   Rental per month: $129.04
6 yard container
   Cost: $2,321.00           136.31 272.63 408.94 545.26 681.57
   Rental per month: $96.70
4 yard container
   Cost: $1,780.00           89.68  179.37 269.06 358.75 448.44
   Rental per month: $74.16
2 yard container
   Cost: $1,265.00           46.62  93.25  139.87 186.50 233.12
   Rental per month: $52.70
 
      (2)   Commercial, industrial or institutional subscribers which
accumulate large amounts of refuse, rubbish or garbage shall, at the discretion
of the Mayor, or other duly appointed person, be required to either rent from
the Department of Waste Collection or purchase an approved container (dumpster)
of sufficient capacity to insure efficient and sanitary pick-up of refuse,
rubbish, or garbage.
   (c)   Collection from other than normal collection points. Where the
collection of refuse from other than the curb line of the street or alley from
which collection is made is agreed upon by the Department of Waste, the fee
shall be that established for normal collections, plus each additional fee as
may be set by the Department of Waste to cover the cost of the extra service.
   (d)   Payment: disposition of funds.
      (1)   All rates and charges provided in this article shall be paid
monthly or in advance, except those fees and charges for commercial,
industrial, or institutional services where the Department of Waste makes some
arrangements for payment.
      (2)   All moneys paid to the Town of Nutter Fort for the services
provided in this article shall be received, accounted for in the general fund
of the Town of Nutter Fort and paid out as required by the Mayor and Council.
   (e)   Delinquent accounts: collection of unpaid charges. All accounts not
paid within 15 days of the date of billing shall be considered delinquent. All
delinquent accounts are subject to stoppage of service without notice. The
Treasurer, or his or her appointee, shall cease all refuse collections for the
delinquent accounts. The Town of Nutter Fort may proceed for the collection of
a municipal claim.
   (f)   Rates for special services.
      (1)   The Department of Waste shall have the general authority to charge
customers for delivery, rental, and pickup of “temporary” dumpsters. The
following rates will be charged:
 
             Two-yard    Four-yard    Six-yard     Eight-yard
Delivery fee $25.00      $25.00       $25.00       $25.00
Daily rental $3.00/day   $4.00/day    $5.00/day    $6.00/day
Dumping fee  $50.00/dump $100.00/dump $150.00/dump $200.00/dump
 
      (2)   The Department of Waste shall have the general authority to fix
rates or fees for special services not otherwise provided for; provided such
fees shall be commensurate with the services performed.
   (g)   Rates for additional pickups. The Department of Waste shall have the
general authority to charge commercial, industrial or institutional customers
for additional pickups, if needed. This additional pickup will be an occasional
occurrence and will not take the place of needing a dumpster or needing a
larger dumpster, if necessary.
      (1)   The following rates will be charged for each additional pickup
during the month:
         (a)   Two-yard container: $50.00.
         (b)   Four-yard container: $100.00.
         (c)   Six-yard container: $150.00.
         (d)   Eight-yard container: $200.00.
      (2)   As stated in §
951.11(b), the container must be of sufficient capacity. If the Department of
Waste feels the present pick-ups are insufficient, the business location will
be contacted to make arrangements.
   (h)   Mandatory disposal; proof required; penalty imposed. Each person
occupying a residence or operating a business establishment in this state shall
either (I) subscribe to and use a solid waste collection service and pay the
fees established therefore or (II) provide proper proof that said person
properly disposes of solid waste at approved solid waste facilities or in any
other lawful manner. The Director of the Department of Natural Resources shall
promulgate rules pursuant to chapter twenty-nine-a of this code regarding an
approved method or methods of supplying such proper proof. A civil penalty of
$150.00 shall be assessed to the person receiving solid waste collection
services in addition to the unpaid fees for every year that a fee is not paid.
(Ord. passed 5-27-2008; Ord. 2013:951.06, passed 12-10-2013; Ord. 2022-06,
passed 4-26-2022; Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.13 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   (a)   Established. There shall be established a recycling program for the
town, effective August 1, 1993. This recycling program will provide for the
manner in which collections shall be made, specifications for those items to be
recycled, and a schedule of days and hours for collection.
   (b)   Rules and regulations. Council may make rules and regulations
providing for recycling that will not be in conflict with any state or county
law.
   (c)   Fees. There will be a fee of $2.00 per month per customer, as defined
by the utility monthly billing. This fee will be collected and deposited and
books will be maintained by the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (d)   Recyclables.
      (1)   Items to be recycled shall include, but not be limited to aluminum
and bi-metal cans, steel beverage and food cans, plastics Nos. 1 and 2,
corrugated paper, cardboard, newspapers including inserts, and magazines.
      (2)   The following recyclable items may be placed in the recycling bin
or clear plastic garbage bags: aluminum cans and bi-metal cans, steel beverage
and food cans, plastics Nos. 1 and 2, newspapers including inserts, and
magazines.
      (3)   All customers of the town must participate in the recycling program
under the same terms as laid down by the collection of regular consumer
garbage, except for the following rule: All recyclables must be placed at the
front curb for pick-up. This will allow for a more cost-efficient collection.
Failure to participate in the recyclable program will be a violation of the law
mandating recycling and will result in loss of garbage collection by those who
fail to participate.
      (4)   Recycling will be collected as specified by this department and may
be changed if necessary.
(Ord. passed 8-24-1993; Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
§ 951.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any customers violating the provisions of this chapter or any
regulation promulgated hereunder shall be fined $25.00 plus court costs for an
initial violation and up to $500.00 plus court costs for each additional
violation.
   (b)   Any owner of a multi-family dwelling, four units or larger, violating
this chapter or any regulations promulgated hereunder shall be fined up to
$100.00 plus court costs for an initial violation and up to $500.00 plus court
costs for each additional violation.
   (c)   A notice of violation can be issued by the town, Solid Waste Authority
Director, Law Enforcement and the WV Department of Environmental Protection,
and if not corrected within 30 days the above-mentioned fines plus court costs
will be collected.
   (d)   Any commercial establishment violating this chapter or any regulations
promulgated hereunder shall be fined up to $1,000.00 plus court costs for an
initial violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (e)   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to any act
is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided,
whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more than $500.00 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-23-2022)
CHAPTER FIVE: OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
ARTICLE 955: RECREATIONAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
955.01   Definitions
   
955.02   Protection of park property
   
955.03   Firearms, fireworks, explosives, weapons, hunting, bows and arrows
   
955.04   Prohibited activities
   
955.05   Regulated activities
   
955.06   Motor vehicles
   
955.07   Jurisdiction of violations
 
   
955.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Athletic establishments, see W.Va. Code Art. 10-2A
   Authority to establish and maintain, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(37)
   Authority to levy charges, see W.Va. Code § 8-13-13
   Public recreation and playgrounds, see W.Va. Code Art. 10-2
§ 955.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of a fire department or police
department, or ambulances.
   COUNCIL. The Council of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   PARK. All properties and facilities controlled by or under the jurisdiction
of Council, including playgrounds or school facilities being used as part of
Council’s recreational program.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, partnerships and associations.
§ 955.02 PROTECTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   (a)   Defacement, destruction or removal. No person shall remove, injure,
deface, destroy or disturb any part of the park or any building, sign,
equipment or other property found therein, nor shall any tree, flower, shrub or
other vegetation or fruit or seed thereof, or rock, or mineral therein, be
removed, injured, defaced, destroyed or disturbed.
   (b)   Defacement of surface. No person shall operate a motor vehicle causing
the rubber tires to spin, mark and deface the park roadway surface.
   (c)   Littering or dumping of rubbish or garbage. No person, without the
written consent of the Mayor, shall leave behind or dump any material of any
kind in the park; except that, refuse, ashes, garbage or other material from a
picnic or other permitted activity may be deposited in receptacles or pits
provided for such purpose.
   (d)   Noxious or deleterious material. No person shall within the park
place, or permit to be placed, in any river, brook, stream, ditch or drain that
flows into or through park lands or in any lake in the park, any noxious or
deleterious material which may render park waters harmful or inimical to the
public health, or to animal, vegetarian or aquatic life, or which may lessen to
an unreasonable degree the use and enjoyment of such waters for recreational or
other park use.
§ 955.03 FIREARMS, FIREWORKS, EXPLOSIVES, WEAPONS, HUNTING, BOWS AND ARROWS.
   (a)   Firearms. No person shall carry a firearm of any description, air or
gas gun, fireworks, explosive, slingshot or missile-throwing device into or
within the park or discharge the same therein.
   (b)   Dangerous weapons. No person shall have or carry any switchblade,
hunting knife, dagger, metal knuckles or other dangerous weapon while in the
park.
   (c)   Bows and arrows. No person shall release an arrow from a bow or
longbow within the park other than in areas designated by the Mayor at archery
ranges or at such other locations as may be designated in writing for such
purpose by the Mayor and Council.
   (d)   Hunting. No person within the park shall hunt, pursue with dogs, hunt
with birds, trap or in any way molest any wild bird or animal found within the
park or rob or molest any bird nest or take the eggs of any bird.
§ 955.04 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (a)   Advertising; signs. No person shall distribute or place any sign,
advertisement, circular, notice or statement, or distribute or place any
banner, emblem, design or political advertisement within the park without the
written consent of the Mayor, and without all applicable permits or licenses.
   (b)   Sales. No person shall sell or offer for sale any article, thing,
privilege or service within the park without the written consent of the Mayor,
and without all applicable permits or licenses.
   (c)   Disturbing the peace. No person shall disturb the peace and good order
within the park by fighting, by quarreling or wrangling with loud voice or
shouts, by threatening violence to the person or property of others, or by
engaging in riotous clamor or tumult.
   (d)   Unlawful assemblage. No person or persons shall within the park
collect a group or a crowd for unlawful purposes, or in riotous assemblage or
with the intent to annoy, harass or inflict property damage or bodily injury
upon another person or persons.
   (e)   Abusive language. No person shall use obscene, profane or abusive
language within the park.
   (f)   Assault and battery. No person shall willfully assault or commit
bodily injury upon another while within the park, or within the park be engaged
in, or abet or aid in, any fight, quarrel or other disturbance.
   (g)   Gambling. No person shall gamble or play games of chance within the
park, unless such games conform to all state and local laws, and operators
thereof hold a permit issued by the Manager.
   (h)   Intoxicating beverages; beer; wine. No person shall within the park
sell, offer for sale, possess or consume any intoxicating liquor, beer or wine
unless the written consent of the Mayor therefor is first had and obtained, as
provided in §
955.05(c) of this article, and unless there is full compliance with all
applicable state law; and under no circumstances whatever shall any person be
under the influence of any intoxicating liquor or wine within the park.
   (i)   Glue sniffing. No person shall within the park sniff any type of glue
or other commercial material or product which contains toluol or ethers.
   (j)   Use of narcotics, opiates and hallucinogens. No person shall smoke,
drink, have injected into one’s self or otherwise use any type of narcotic
drugs, dangerous drugs, opiate, hallucinogen or marijuana within the park.
   (k)   Entering toilet facilities. No person, except park maintenance
employees or police in the performance of official duties, shall enter a toilet
within the park set aside for members of the opposite sex.
   (l)   Indecent conduct and exposure. No person shall appear within the park
in a state of nudity, or therein commit, perform or engage in any lewd,
lascivious, obscene or indecent act or behavior and no person shall within the
park make any indecent exposure of his or her person.
   (m)   Solicitation. No person shall within the park solicit or ask anyone to
commit, perform or engage in any unlawful, lewd, lascivious, obscene or
indecent act or behavior.
   (n)   Compliance with police; failure to obey. No person shall fail or
refuse to comply with any reasonable order relating to these rules and
regulations or to the control of traffic or motor vehicles within the park, or
with any other order lawfully given by any police officer, or willfully resist,
obstruct or abuse any officer or any other town official or employee in the
execution of his or her office.
   (o)   Loitering and vagrancy. No person shall loiter in or near any
building, toilet or structure, or loiter in or near a motor vehicle or vehicles
within the park.
§ 955.05 REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   (a)   Fires. No person shall start a fire within the park, except small
fires for culinary purposes in park grills or privately-owned grills or fires
in the place or areas designated for such purposes by Council; provided that,
the Mayor may, at his or her discretion, prohibit fires for limited periods at
any location or for any purpose when necessary for the protection of park
property. All fires within the park shall be put out by the person or persons
starting or using the same before leaving the immediate vicinity of the fire.
No person shall within the park dump hot ashes or fire onto the grass or
plants.
   (b)   No admittance after park is closed. No person, except Council members
or public officials in the performance of their official duties, shall be
permitted within the park or any part thereof after the same is closed for the
night and prior to its opening the following day.
   (c)   Intoxicating beverages; beer; wine. Persons of legal age may have in
their possession and may consume within the park intoxicating beverages, wine
or beer or other malt beverages in connection with a picnic involving the
consumption of food if such picnic is held at a designated picnic area, and
beverages are consumed at such designated picnic area only, the same to be with
the written permission of the Mayor only.
   (d)   Pets. No person shall bring within the park, or permit, have or keep
within the park, any dog, cat or other animal destructive to birds or other
wildlife unless they are controlled at all times on a leash not more than six
feet long.
   (e)   Use of picnic shelter. No person shall use a picnic shelter, except by
permit, unless no permit was issued for the particular shelter on that
particular day; then, it is on a first-come first-serve basis.
§ 955.06 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   State laws applicable. All of the provisions contained in W.Va. Code
Ch. 17A, 17B and 17C, as amended, shall govern the operation of motor vehicles
within the park.
   (b)   Speed limits. No person shall drive or propel or cause to be driven or
propelled along or over any road or drive within the park, any vehicles at a
greater rate of speed than ten mph, unless otherwise posted.
   (c)   Vehicles prohibited on paths. No person shall operate or cause to be
operated any type of self-propelled vehicle along or over any path or walkway
designated for pedestrian traffic.
§ 955.07 JURISDICTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   As provided in W.Va. Code § 8-21-10, municipal police judges or magistrates
of Harrison County shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Court of
such county. The violation of any rule or regulation shall also constitute a
violation of state law as well as a violation of municipal ordinance pursuant
to the authority of W.Va. Code § 8-21-10.
§ 955.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any of the rules and regulations of this article shall
constitute a misdemeanor, and any person convicted of any violation thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $5, nor more than $100, or by
imprisonment in jail for a period not exceeding 30 days, or by both fine and
imprisonment. Nothing herein shall be construed as being in conflict with any
other municipal penal ordinance or state law, but shall be deemed as
supplemental.
PART ELEVEN: HEALTH AND SANITATION CODE
ARTICLE 1131: NUISANCES
Section
   
1131.01   Prohibited conditions
   
1131.02   Notice of violation
   
1131.03   Removal by city; lien on property
   
1131.04   Additional remedies
 
   
1131.99   Penalty
§ 1131.01 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   Every person owning, leasing or renting any lot, land or property shall keep
the same free from and remove therefrom any dirt, rubbish, debris, weeds,
brush, poison ivy, trees, plant growth, filth or any other deleterious material
or salvaged material which may endanger or injure neighboring property or
threaten the safety, health or welfare of the residents of the town, and every
person owning, leasing or renting any lot, land or property shall keep the same
free from any such dirt, rubbish, debris, weeds, brush, poison ivy, trees,
plant growth, filth or any other deleterious material or salvaged material
which may endanger or injure neighborhood property or threaten the safety,
health or welfare of the residents of the town, and to cut and remove such
deleterious material at his or her own expense.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1994; Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 1131.02 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   In the event that any person owning, leasing or renting such lot, land
or property within the town shall fail to perform such duty to cut and remove
such deleterious material or salvaged material therefrom or upon the order of
Council or Mayor, then in either of such events the Mayor shall give or cause
to be given in writing to the person owning, leasing or renting such lot, land
or property notice to remove such dirt, rubbish, debris, weeds, brush, poison
ivy, trees, plant growth, filth or any other deleterious material from such lot
or parcel of land.
   (b)   Such notice shall be addressed to the owner and lessee or tenant of
the lot, land or property, shall describe by lot and block number or otherwise
the location of such lot, land or property, shall describe briefly the dirt,
rubbish, debris, weeds, brush, poison ivy, trees, plant growth, filth or any
other deleterious material to be cut and removed therefrom, shall fix a time
within which such cutting, or razing, and removal shall be accomplished, shall
bear a date thereon, and shall be signed either by the Mayor, or other
authorized agent of the town. Any such notice shall be given or served upon any
such offending person in the following manner: by any of the methods prescribed
for service of process issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the state,
or by posting a copy of such notice in a conspicuous place on the lot, land or
property upon which such deleterious or salvaged material is found, or by
publication of such notice once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation within the town or by mailing a copy of such noticed
addressed to such person at his or her last known address. Any of the above
methods of service of such notice shall be deemed sufficient notice to the
person of the contents thereof. No error in the name of the property owner, the
description of the property or in the materials designated to be cut and
removed shall affect the validity of any such notice; provided that, from the
description of such lot, land or property the identity thereof may be
established with reasonable certainty.
(Ord. passed 7-26-1994; Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 1131.03 REMOVAL BY CITY; LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (a)   Unless within ten days from the date of the posting, serving, mailing
or publication of the notice provided for in subsection (b) below, the
deleterious material is removed from the lot, land or property, the Mayor
shall, thereupon, cause the same to be cut, or razed, and removed, either by
the agents or employees of the town, or otherwise as he may decide or direct,
and the Mayor shall report the cost thereof to the Recorder and the Recorder
shall forthwith mail a bill, voucher or statement of such cost in the United
States mail to such person owning such lot, land or property, the same to be
dated with the date of its preparation and addressed to the last known post
office address of such person. If such bill, voucher, statement or account be
not paid within ten days from its date, then the Recorder, or his or her duly
authorized representative, shall prepare a notice of lien against such lot,
land or property for the total amount of the actual cost of the cutting, or
razing and removing, which lien shall be duly verified by the Recorder, Mayor
or other authorized representative of the town, and which notice of lien shall
be addressed to the person owning the lot, land or property within the town.
Such notice of lien shall briefly describe the property upon which such lien is
to be taken, shall briefly describe the work done thereon and shall show the
cost of such work. The lien shall also include the clerical cost of the
Recorder not to exceed the sum of $5 and a fee for the search of the records to
ascertain the owners of the property not to exceed the sum of $10, and shall
include a statement of the cost of the recordation of the lien. The notice of
lien when so prepared, as aforesaid, shall, thereupon, be recorded in the trust
lien book in the office of the Clerk of the County Court and from the date of
its recordation therein shall be a first lien after state, county and municipal
taxes, and municipal paving assessment, if any, upon the lot, land or property
described in the lien. Such lien may be collected in the same manner as are
liens for taxes, or paving assessments under the statutes of the state or by an
action at law; or the lien or the debt represented by it may be collected in
any other manner or method which is now or may hereafter be provide for the
collection of debts or accounts due to a municipality under the statutes of the
state. Interest shall accrue upon such debt or lien at the rate of 6% per year
from the date of the notice of lien until paid.
   (b)   The notice of lien provided for in this section shall be sufficient if
it be in substantially the following form:
 
NOTICE OF LIEN
TO:                                                                                 
Notice is hereby given, that in accordance with the provisions of §
1131.03 of the codified ordinances, the City of Nutter Fort, West Virginia, claims a lien to secure the payment of the total sum of $              .
Upon your interest in the following described property, situated in the                                                       Ward of the Town of Nutter Fort, Harrison County, West
Virginia, and being described as follows:
(Description of Lot and Block Number or otherwise)
You are further notified that the items of said lien are as follows:
   Cost of cutting/razing and removal of (describe)      $                   
   Cost of Recorder in preparation of lien and notices      $                   
   Title report                        $                   
   Service of notice                     $                   
   Recordation of lien                     $                   
                  total amount of lien   $                   
This is a first lien after state, county and municipal taxes, and paving assessments on said lot, tract or parcel of land, and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% from the date
hereof until paid.
You are further notified that said lien may be paid, and release thereof had, at the office of the Mayor, City of Nutter Fort, City Hall, Nutter Fort, West Virginia.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the City of Nutter Fort, West Virginia, has caused its name to be signed hereto by                                                                  , and
its corporate seal hereto affixed, this                             day of                                        , 20              .
   ATTEST      THE CITY OF NUTTER FORT, WEST VIRGINIA
            BY                                                                                           
            Its                                                                                            
                                                                                       
   Recorder
   (Acknowledgment)
 
Note: This lien to be recorded and indexed in trust lien book.
 
 
   (c)   Such lien and assessment shall bear interest at the rate of 6% from
the date thereof and such lien shall be indexed and recorded by the Clerk of
the County Court in the same manner as are liens for paving assessments as
provided by the statutes of the state.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 1131.04 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   Neither the collection of the aforementioned damages, nor the imposition of
any assessment, lien or other penalty under the provisions of this article
shall excuse the violation, neglect or non-compliance wherewith, or permit or
allow the continuance of any such violation; and any person violating,
neglecting or failing to comply with the provisions of the is article shall be
required to correct, or remedy such violations, neglects, defaults or defects
as provided for herein. The application or use of such assessment lien, or of
the above penal provisions shall not be held to prevent the removal of the
prohibited conditions, and the town shall have the right, in addition thereto,
to proceed in any court having jurisdiction for the correction or removal of
the same by any lawful procedure provided for by the statutes of the state.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
§ 1131.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   In addition to the lien assessment provided for herein, if any person
shall violate any of the provisions of this article or shall fail to comply
with any notice provided for herein such person may, upon summons or warrant,
be required to appear before the Mayor and, if convicted of a violation of this
article, may be fined by such Mayor not more than $500 within the aforesaid
limits in the discretion of the Mayor and, in addition thereto, shall be
required to pay the costs of his or her prosecution.
   (b)   Each five days that any such person shall fail to comply with the
provisions of this article or shall fail or neglect to obey and comply with any
notice issued under the provisions hereof shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2003)
ARTICLE 1135: NUISANCE ABATEMENT
Section
   
1135.01   Article is supplemental to other provisions
   
1135.02   Nuisances prohibited
   
1135.03   Nuisances defined and declared
   
1135.04   Maintenance of premises
   
1135.05   Dangerous conditions
   
1135.06   Inspections, investigations and complaints; enforcement officer
   
1135.07   Right to enter private premises; duty of occupants
   
1135.08   Notice to cease and desist
   
1135.09   Notice to abate; appeal
   
1135.10   Recourse of town when notice to abate nuisance is ignored
   
1135.11   Committing or maintaining nuisance
§ 1135.01 ARTICLE IS SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Various nuisances are defined and prohibited in other parts of the codified
ordinances, and it is the intent of Council in enacting this article to make it
supplemental to those other parts in which nuisances are defined and
prohibited; and the provisions of this article relating to the abatement of
nuisances shall be regarded as alternative methods and procedures for the
abatement of nuisances in those instances where other methods and procedures
for abatement are provided.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.02 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause, harbor, commit or maintain, or permit to be caused,
harbored, committed or maintained any nuisance as defined by the statute or
common law of the state or as defined by the codified ordinances or other
ordinance of the town at any place within the town, or at any place beyond the
town limits which is owned by the town or over which the town has a right-of-
way; or at any other place beyond the town limits, but within one mile thereof,
and not in any other incorporated municipality, wherever the powers and
authority granted by this article cannot be reasonably and efficiently
exercised by confining the exercise thereof within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.03 NUISANCES DEFINED AND DECLARED.
   (a)   The following acts when committed, or conditions when existing, within
the town or within the area surrounding the town and within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of Council as provided in §
1135.02 of this article are hereby defined and declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being or thing kept, maintained,
placed or found in or upon any public or private property, which is injurious
or dangerous to the public health or safety;
      (2)   All buildings, bridges or other structures of whatever character
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees, shrubs and other appendages of or to realty kept or
maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having control
thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy,
injurious or annoying to the public;
      (4)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, and all foul or dirty water
or liquid when discharged through any drain, pipe or spout or thrown into or
upon any street, public place or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public;
      (5)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk to
the danger or annoyance of the public, and all stones, rubbish, dirt, filth,
slops, vegetable matter, trees, shrubs or other article thrown or placed by any
person on or in any street, sidewalk or other public place, which in any way
may cause any injury or annoyance to the public;
      (6)   All sidewalks, gutters or curbstones permitted to remain in an
unsafe condition or out of repair;
      (7)   All houses, buildings, structures or enclosures used for special
storage of powder, dynamite or other explosive or highly flammable substances
or gases, except those maintained pursuant to permit issued by competent
authority;
      (8)   Any litter, trash, garbage or refuse or any abandoned unlicensed
motor vehicle or any part thereof, which is or may be offensive to the
neighborhood or citizens generally; and
      (9)   Any offensive or unwholesome substance or growth of grass, weeds
exceeding eight inches in height, or brush upon any lot or parcel of ground.
   (b)   The nuisances described in this section shall not be construed as
exclusive, an any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the state is, when
committed, omitted or existing within the town or within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of Council as provided in section two of this article is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.04 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   No person owning or in the possession of any lot, parcel, house, building or
enclosure shall allow or suffer to exist in or upon such premises any stagnant
water, animal or vegetable matter or other substance liable to become putrid,
offensive, annoying or unhealthy. Persons owning or in possession of any real
estate shall provide proper and adequate drainage therefore so that no
offensive, baneful or disagreeable liquids shall flow or seep into any street.
Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance. Ownership
shall include, in addition to the land within its boundaries, all land adjacent
to and extending beyond the property line to the curb line of adjacent streets
and, where no curb exists, to the existing street surface, and all land lying
between the property line and the centerline of adjacent alleyways or
unimproved street rights-of-way. This also includes sidewalks.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.05 DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   No person who, being the owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or parcel of
land, shall knowingly permit to remain thereon any structure, tree, machine or
appliance, combustible materials or any other materials or combination of
materials which create a fire hazard or a hazard to adjoining public or private
property or to persons using or occupying such adjoining public or private
property, or neglect or refuse to remove or abate the nuisance occasioned
thereby within 24 hours after such person has knowledge of the existence of
such nuisance upon any of the above described premises, owned, leased or
occupied by him or her. Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.06 INSPECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS AND COMPLAINTS; ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   The Chief of Police, the Fire Chief and the Building Inspector shall
cause inspections to be made from time to time within the town and, when they
deem it in the interest of the town so to do, within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the town as provided in §
1135.02 of this article, determine whether any condition exists or activity is
being practiced which constitutes a nuisance; and each such officer shall cause
an investigation to be made upon written complaint made by any responsible
person. Any public health officer having jurisdiction within the town is hereby
vested with the authority conferred by this article on a town health officer,
and he or she may exercise such authority when authorized so to do by his or
her own superiors.
   (b)   Each officer mentioned in subsection (a) above shall, for the purposes
of this article, be designated as an “enforcement officer”.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.07 RIGHT TO ENTER PRIVATE PREMISES; DUTY OF OCCUPANTS.
   (a)   Enforcement officers shall have the right to enter upon private
premises for the purposes specified in §
1135.06 of this article, upon proper identification and in compliance with all
applicable provisions of law.
   (b)   Unless it appears probable that advance warning would defeat the
purpose of such entry, occupants of premises to be entered shall be given
reasonable notice in advance, and in any case no owner or occupant shall
prevent such entry which is sought to be made in compliance with law.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.08 NOTICE TO CEASE AND DESIST.
   If, at any time, an enforcement officer shall find that an activity or
practice which constitutes a nuisance is occurring within the town or within
the area surrounding the town and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the town as provided in §
1135.02 of this article, he or she shall promptly and by the most expeditious
means notify the violator to cease and desist forthwith.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.09 NOTICE TO ABATE; APPEAL.
   If, at any time, an enforcement officer shall find that a condition which
constitutes a nuisance exists within the town or within the area surrounding
the town and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town, as provided
in §
1135.02 of this article, he or she shall give notice in writing to the owner,
occupant or person in charge of the premises upon which such condition exists,
stating therein the condition which constitutes a nuisance and directing such
addressee to remedy the condition within the time stated in such notice, which
shall be not more than ten days; and no such owner, occupant or person in
charge shall fail to comply with the terms of such notice; provided, however,
any owner, occupant or person in charge may, within two days from the service
thereof, appeal to Council, in which case the terms of such notice shall be
stayed pending action of Council, which shall be final; provided further,
however, that, if the enforcement officer shall state in such notice that the
condition which constitutes a nuisance is such as to be an imminent hazard to
the health, safety or welfare of the public or any person within or near the
premises upon which such nuisance exists, then the addressee shall comply with
the terms of such notice.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.10 RECOURSE OF TOWN WHEN NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE IS IGNORED.
   (a)   The failure of any person to whom notice has been given pursuant to §
1135.09 of this article to comply with the terms of such notice, or with the
terms imposed by Council on appeal, as the case may be, is an offense that
shall be punished by a fine of $100. Each day of non-compliance with such order
is a separate offense, and the aforementioned fine shall be imposed for each
offense.
   (b)   The enforcement officer shall direct the appropriate town officer to
remedy the condition which is the subject of such notice, and the expense
incurred by the town in so doing shall be charged to the addressee of such
notice, as well as to the owner of the premises which is the subject of such
notice, jointly and severally, to be collected as town taxes or in any other
manner authorized by law for the collection of money due the town.
   (c)   Abatement by the town of any condition which constitutes a nuisance
and reimbursement to the town of expenses incurred thereby shall not bar
prosecution for maintenance of a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
§ 1135.11 COMMITTING OR MAINTAINING NUISANCE.
   Nothing in this article shall be considered to prohibit any police officer
from arresting any person for committing or maintaining a nuisance when such
arrest is made pursuant to law.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2010)
PART THIRTEEN: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
CHAPTER ONE: ZONING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1301: TITLE; USE; INTERPRETATION
Section
   
1301.01   Short title
   
1301.02   Uses
   
1301.03   Non-conforming uses
   
1301.04   Boundaries of districts
   
1301.05   Application of regulations
Cross References
   Zoning authority generally, see W.Va. Code § 8A-7-1
§ 1301.01 SHORT TITLE.
   Chapters One and Three of this Part Thirteen shall be known as the “Planning
and Zoning Code”. The map herein referred to, and which is hereby declared to
be a part of the Zoning Ordinance, shall be known as the “Zoning Map”.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1301.02 USES.
   In each district, land and structures may be used only for purposes
specified hereinafter.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1301.03 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (a)   Any use or structure existing at the time of enactment or subsequent
amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, but not in conformity with its provisions,
may be continued with the following limitations.
   (b)   Any use of a building which does not conform to the Zoning Ordinance
may not be:
      (1)   Changed to another non-conforming use;
      (2)   Re-established after discontinuance for six months;
      (3)   Extended except in conformity with the Zoning Ordinance; or
      (4)   Rebuilt after damage exceeding two-thirds of its fair sales value
immediately prior to such damage.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1301.04 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   (a)   The location and boundaries of districts are and shall be as shown on
the Zoning Map; provided that, where the designation on the Zoning Map
indicates a district boundary approximately on a street or alley line or on a
lot line, the centerline of such street or alley or such lot line shall be
construed to be the boundary.
   (b)   Where uncertainty exists as to the exact boundaries of any district as
shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   In unsubdivided areas, or where a district boundary subdivides a
lot, the exact location of the boundary line shall be determined by use of the
scale of the Zoning Map.
      (2)   In the case of further uncertainty, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall interpret the intent of the Zoning Map as to the location of the boundary
in question.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1301.05 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   Hereinafter, no land shall be used or occupied and no building shall be
erected, altered, used or occupied, except in conformity with the regulations
herein established for the district in which such land, building or structure
is located. In case of mixed occupancy, the regulations for each use shall
apply to the portion of the building so used.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
ARTICLE 1305: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1305.01   Definitions
Cross References
   Statutory definitions, see W.Va. Code § 8A-1-2
   General definitions, see Part One §
101.02
§ 1305.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of the Zoning Ordinance, certain terms and words are herein
defined. Words used in the present tense include the future; the singular
number includes the plural and the plural the singular; the words “used for”
include the meaning “designed for”; the word “building” includes the word
“structure”. “Shall” is mandatory.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, or a portion of main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main or principal building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental to the main or principal use of the
premises.
   ALLEY. Any roadway or public way dedicated to public use and 20 feet or less
in width.
   BASEMENT. A story, wholly or partially underground which, unless used for
living purposes, shall not be included as a story for the purpose of height
measurements.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals, established under the Zoning Ordinance.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property. When separated by party walls, without openings through such walls,
each portion of such a BUILDING shall be considered a separate structure.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A statement, signed by the Zoning Inspector,
setting forth either that a building complies with the Zoning Ordinance or that
a building or parcel of land may lawfully be employed for specific uses, or
both.
   CURB LEVEL. The elevation of the top of the curb or the established curb
grade opposite the center of the building or portion thereof under
consideration.
   DEVELOPMENT GROUP. See PLANNED DEVELOPMENT GROUP.
   DISTRICT. A section of the town for which uniform regulations governing the
use, height, area, size and intensity of use of buildings and land, and size of
yards and open spaces are herein established.
   DWELLINGS.
      (1)   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling designed or occupied other than
as a one-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling. The term MULTI-FAMILY
DWELLING shall be understood to include apartment houses, and all other family
dwellings of similar character where apartments or suites are occupied and used
as separate and complete housekeeping units; but not to include hotels or
apartment hotels.
      (2)   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A separate, detached building designed for and
occupied exclusively as a residence for one family.
      (3)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. Separate, detached building designed for and
occupied exclusively as a residence for two families.
   FAMILY. An individual; or two or more persons related by blood or marriage
living together; or a small group of individuals, not related by blood or
marriage, but living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. Any structure of wood, metal, masonry, plastic or other synthetic
material designed, used, erected and affixed to the real estate for the purpose
of enclosing or separating any portion of the real estate from adjoining land
whether or not such fence is located on the boundary line of the property to
which it appertains.
   GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT. A business establishment which houses machines
licensed by the state.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage for housing automobiles only, with a capacity for
not more than two motor vehicles, not more than one of which may be a
commercial vehicle of not more than three tons capacity. A garage exceeding a
two vehicle capacity, intended primarily for housing of cars belonging to
occupants of the premises, shall be considered a PRIVATE GARAGE.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building where automobiles are stored for a fee, and where
minor repairs are done. A PUBLIC GARAGE may contain filling station facilities
for the cars stored therein, and may contain a room or rooms for displaying
cars for sale.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS. The vertical distance measured from the curb level to
the highest point of the roof adjacent to the street wall for flat roofs; to
the deck line for mansard roofs, and to the mean height between eaves and ridge
for gabled, hipped or gambrel roofs.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding or lodging house.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, at least four months
of age, are kept.
   LOT. A parcel of land which is or may be occupied by a building and
accessory buildings, including the open spaces required under the Zoning
Ordinance.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
rear lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot the side lines of which do not abut on a street.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   MANUFACTURED BUILDING (MODULAR). A building of closed construction and which
is made or assembled in manufacturing facilities on or off the building site
for installation, or assembly and installation on the building site, other than
mobile homes or recreational vehicles (NEC 545-3). It may be used for
residential, commercial, industrial or educational purposes. A MANUFACTURED
BUILDING is not permanently mounted on a chassis.
   MIXED OCCUPANCY. Occupancy of a building or land for more than one use.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured relocatable living unit designed and intended
for year-round occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land designated for the placement of a single
mobile home and for the exclusive use of its occupants and guests.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home lot which has been reserved for
the placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures or additions.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, area, tract or parcel of land upon which two or
more mobile homes used or occupied for dwelling purposes are parked either free
of charge or for monetary or other consideration and shall include any roadway,
building, structure, installation, enclosure or vehicle used or intended for
use as a part of the facilities of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging is provided and
offered to the public for compensation, and catering primarily to the public
traveling by motor vehicle.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land not in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking space for five
or more vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT GROUP. A development, either residential, commercial or
industrial, in districts where permitted, subject to approval of the Planning
Commission, wherein the tract of land proposed to be developed is not
subdivided into the customary streets or lots, or where the existing or
contemplated street and lot layout can be adapted to such development or make
it impracticable to apply the street requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
   SIGNBOARD. Any structure or part thereof on which lettered or pictorial
matter is displayed for advertising or notice purposes.
   SPECIAL USES. The uses specified herein, under the provisions set forth
herein, subject to review and authorization by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there be no floor above it,
then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A story under a gabled, hipped or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than three and
one-half feet above the finished floor of such story.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in or addition to the supporting members
of a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected, the use of which demands its
permanent location on the land; or anything attached to something having a
permanent location on the land.
   STREET. Any roadway or public way dedicated to public use, except an alley.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure constructed in such a manner as to permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping and eating quarters or for the conduct of any
business, trade or occupation, or use as a selling or advertising device, or
use for storage or conveyance of tools, equipment or machinery, and so designed
that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on roads or
streets, customarily propelled or drawn by motor power other than its own.
   YARD. An open space, as may be required by the Zoning Ordinance, on the same
lot with a building or a group of buildings, which open space lies between the
principal building and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as herein
permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
building and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as specified elsewhere in the Zoning Ordinance.
   YARD, REAR. An open space extending the full width of the lot between a
building and the rear lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as specified elsewhere in the Zoning Ordinance.
   YARD, SIDE. An open space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between a building and the nearest side yard lot line, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as specified elsewhere in the
Zoning Ordinance.
   ZONING INSPECTOR. The person designated as such, under the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 11-8-1994; Ord. passed 9-28-2004; Ord.
passed 7-26-2005; Ord. passed 9-14-2005)
ARTICLE 1309: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
1309.01   Districts
   
1309.02   Procedure relating to annexed areas
   
1309.03   R-1A, B and C Residence Districts
   
1309.04   R-2 Residence District
   
1309.05   R-3 Residence District
   
1309.06   B-1 Business District
   
1309.07   B-2 Business District
   
1309.08   I-1 Industry District
   
1309.09   Special uses
Cross References
   Non-conforming uses, see Part Thirteen,
Art. 1341
   Permitted use for group residential facility, see W.Va. Code § 8A-11-2
   Zoning districts generally, see W.Va. Code § 8A-7-3
§ 1309.01 DISTRICTS.
   The town established is hereby divided into one or more of the following use
districts, which shall be known as:
   (a)   R-1A Resident;
   (b)   R-1B Resident;
   (c)   R-1C Resident;
   (d)   R-2 Resident;
   (e)   R-3 Resident;
   (f)   B-1 Business;
   (g)   B-2 Business;
   (h)   I-1 Industry;
   (i)   Hundred-Year Floodplain (shall comply to all federal laws and
provisions); and
   (j)   Land and/or Mudslide.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/77abc2f1d869b5f8f6d2cf5b2cd0cb73f050533b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1815.png]
 
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1309.02 PROCEDURE RELATING TO ANNEXED AREAS.
   Territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall immediately be
included on the R-1A Residence District, unless or until the Planning
Commission designates otherwise within the provisions of the West Virginia
Code.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 9-28-2004)
§ 1309.03 R-1A, B AND C RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Dwellings, single-family;
      (2)   Public and non-profit private schools;
      (3)   Churches and similar places of worship, parish houses and convents;
      (4)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (5)   Any form of agriculture or horticulture except the keeping of
livestock, poultry or bees;
      (6)   Funeral homes;
      (7)   Beauty shops; and
      (8)   Other businesses with the approval of Town Council.
   (b)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garage;
      (2)   Other customary accessory uses and buildings, provided such uses
are incidental to the principal use and do not include any activity commonly
conducted as business. Any accessory building or use shall be located on the
same parcel as the principal building; and
      (3)   Any special use permitted in the R-1A or C Districts.
   (c)   Permitted special uses. (See §
1309.09 of this article.)
      (1)   Appropriate public uses;
      (2)   Planned residential development group; (See
Art. 1321 of this part.)
      (3)   Public utility installations;
      (4)   Trailer or mobile home parks; and (See
Art. 1325 of this part.)
      (5)   Any special use permitted in the R-1A or C Districts.
   (d)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
Use Lot Area*     Lot Width  Front Yard Depth Side Yard (feet) Rear Yard Depth
    (square feet) (feet)     (feet)                            (feet)
Use            Lot Area*     Lot Width  Front Yard   Side Yard  Rear Yard Depth
               (square feet) (feet)     Depth (feet) (feet)     (feet)
Dwelling R-l A 7,200         60         20           5          15
Dwelling R-l B 6,000         50         20           5          15
Dwelling R-l C 3,600         30         20           4          10
Mobile home    14,400        120        20           8          10
trailer court
Schools        20,000        100        20           10         20
Churches       20,000        100        20           10         20
NOTES TO TABLE:
R-A minimum lot size 60 x 120 feet
R-B minimum lot size 50 x 120 feet
R-C minimum lot size 30 x 120 feet
Minimum ground floor main building size in square feet for R-1 shall not be
less than 860 square feet
No part of any building shall set within five feet of any public right-of-way,
except public utility connections.
* Subject to Health Department regulations and determination which may call for
greater areas to meet sanitary requirements.
 
 
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 10-14-2008)
§ 1309.04 R-2 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (a)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Dwellings, two-family;
      (2)   Public and non-profit private schools;
      (3)   Churches and similar places of worship, parish houses and convents;
      (4)   Public parks and playgrounds; and
      (5)   Any form of agriculture or horticulture except the keeping of
livestock, poultry or bees.
   (b)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garage;
      (2)   Any use permitted in the R-1A, B or C District; and
      (3)   Offices of a physician, lawyer, clergyman or similar profession
and/or beauty shop provided that the office is contained in the principal
building.
   (c)   Permitted special uses. (See §
1309.09 of this article.)
      (1)   Appropriate public uses;
      (2)   Planned residential development group; and (See
Art. 1321  of this part.)
      (3)   Public utility installations.
   (d)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
 
Use       Lot Area      Lot Width  Front Yard   Side Yard      Rear Yard Depth
          (square feet) (feet)     Depth (feet) Minimum (feet) (feet)
Dwellings 5,000         50         20           5**            5**
Others    (Same as R-1A, B, C District)
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Subject to Health Department regulations and determination which may call for
greater areas to meet sanitary requirements.
** Minimum ground floor main building size in square feet for R-2 shall not be
less than 672 square feet
** No part of any building shall set within 5 feet of any public right-of-way
excluding public utility connections.
 
   (e)   Off-street parking spaces.
      (1)   Dwelling: two;
      (2)   School: see
Art. 1317  of this part;
      (3)   Church: see
Art. 1317  of this part; and
      (4)   Business: one off-street parking space for each 200 square feet of
space that is used for business.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 10-14-2008)
§ 1309.05 R-3 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (a)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-2 District; and
      (2)   Dwellings, multi-family.
   (b)   Permitted accessory uses. Any use permitted in the R-2 District.
   (c)   Permitted special uses. (See §
1309.09 of this article.)
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-2 District; and
      (2)   Related residential uses.
   (d)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
 
          Lot Area*     Lot Width  Front Yard   Side Yard Width Rear Yard Depth
Use       (square feet) (feet)     Depth (feet) (minimum)       (feet)
                                                (feet)
Dwellings 6,000         50         20           5               5
Others    (Same as R-2 District)
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Subject to Health Department regulations and determination which may call for
greater areas to meet sanitary requirements.
 
   (e)   Off-street parking spaces. See
Art. 1317 of this part.
(Passed 2-14-78.)
§ 1309.06 B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (a)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Bakery with sale of bakery products on the premises;
      (2)   Barber shop, beauty shop, massage or similar personal service shop;
      (3)   Catering shop;
      (4)   Dressmaking, tailoring, shoe repairing, repairing of household
appliances and bicycles and other uses of a similar character; provided that,
not more than five persons shall be employed on the premises during a single
shift;
      (5)   Drug stores of less than 6,000 square feet of floor area;
      (6)   Laundromats and shops for the delivery or picking up of laundry and
dry cleaning;
      (7)   Medical and dental offices or clinics, and other professional and
business offices;
      (8)   Parking lot;
      (9)   Restaurant, tavern or coffee shop; provided that, the serving of
food or beverage to patrons waiting in parked automobiles shall not be
permitted;
      (10)   Retail stores of less than 6,000 square feet in floor area;
      (11)   Public utility structures such as electric substations, telephone
exchanges and outdoor public telephone booths;
      (12)   Tourist homes;
      (13)   Offices, branch banks or lending institutions;
      (14)   Membership associations, corporations or clubs;
      (15)   Photographic studios; and
      (16)   Gambling establishment.
   (b)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Signs pertaining to goods, products or services sold or offered on
the premises, as permitted elsewhere in this Zoning Ordinance. Signs shall be
attached to a vertical surface of the building or extend not more than 30
inches from; and
      (2)   Other customary uses and structures which are clearly incidental to
the principal use.
   (c)   Permitted special uses. (See §
1309.09 of this article.)
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-3 District;
      (2)   Joint-occupancy uses;
      (3)   Planned commercial development group; and (See
Art. 1321  of this part.)
      (4)   Gambling establishments. Subject to review and approval by Zoning
Board of Appeals pursuant to §
1309.09(b)(12) of this article.
   (d)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements; permitted uses.
 
Lot Area      Lot Width  Front Yard Depth Side Yard Width  Rear Yard Depth
(square feet) (feet)     (feet)           (feet)           (feet)
3,000 - 5,000 30 - 50    None             None             5
 
   (e)   Off-street parking spaces. See
Art. 1317 of this part.
   (f)   Gambling establishments. Subject to review and approval by Zoning
Board pursuant to §
1309.09(b)(12) of this article.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 9-28-2004; Ord. passed 7-26-2005; Ord.
passed 9-27-2005)
§ 1309.07 B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (a)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Pet shop, animal hospital or veterinarian;
      (2)   Automobile, boat, farm implement or trailer display, repair or
servicing and sales room, new or used;
      (3)   Business, dancing or music schools;
      (4)   Hotel, motel or motor court;
      (5)   Parking lot or garage;
      (6)   Testing laboratory;
      (7)   Printing or engraving;
      (8)   Hardware or building material sales;
      (9)   Amusement and recreation service such as theater, ballroom or
bowling alley;
      (10)   Business service shop such as blueprinting, accounting,
duplicating or employment agency;
      (11)   Taverns, restaurants and coffee shops, including drive-in type;
      (12)   Laundromat;
      (13)   Filling station;
      (14)   Any special use permitted in the B-1 District;
      (15)   When not employing more than five persons on the premises in a
single shift, not including persons whose principal duties are off the
premises, and provided all materials are stored and all shop work is done
within a building:
         (a)   Dyeing and cleaning establishment or laundry;
         (b)   Painting, plumbing, carpentry or tinsmithing shop;
         (c)   Radio or television repair shop;
         (d)   Dressmaking, millinery or tailoring establishment;
         (e)   Upholstering shop, not involving furniture manufacturing; and
         (f)   Any other general service or repair establishment of similar
character.
      (16)   R-3 District uses, but not including single- or two-family
dwellings and mobile home development plots.
   (b)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-1 District; except that, the sign
projection requirement need not apply; and
      (2)   Other customary uses and structures which are clearly incidental to
the principal use.
   (c)   Permitted special uses. Any use permitted compatible with a use under
the “Permitted, Accessory or Special” uses in the B-1 District.
   (d)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements; permitted uses.
 
Lot Area      Lot Width  Front Yard Width Side Yard Width  Rear Yard Depth
(square feet) (feet)     (feet)           (feet)           (feet)
5,000         50         None*            None**           15
Other uses    (as established elsewhere)
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Except where set-back is otherwise established.
** Except where adjoining Residence District, then same as such District.
 
   (e)   Off-street parking spaces. (See
Art. 1317 of this part.)
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1309.08 I-1 INDUSTRY DISTRICT.
   (a)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Testing or research laboratories;
      (2)   Offices;
      (3)   Public utility services and structure;
      (4)   Manufacturing, assembly or packaging;
      (5)   Wholesale business, storage and warehousing;
      (6)   Woodworking, furniture repair and custom upholstery, metal working,
electrical sales and contracting, plumbing sales and contracting;
      (7)   Wholesale bakery, dairy, bottling plant and large-scale laundering,
cleaning and dyeing establishments;
      (8)   Manufacturing of awnings, Venetian blinds and shades;
      (9)   Truck terminal;
      (10)   Business service shop such as blueprinting, accounting,
duplicating or employment agency.
      (11)   Commercial parking lot or garage;
      (12)   Automotive, farm implement or trailer repair or servicing,
including collision service, body work and overall painting;
      (13)   Carpentry, painting, plumbing or tinsmithing shop;
      (14)   Printing or engraving;
      (15)   The manufacture, assembly, packing or treatment of articles or
merchandise from previously prepared materials;
      (16)   Distribution plants, parcel delivery and service industries;
      (17)   Lumber and building materials sales and storage yards;
      (18)   Contractors equipment, sales and service;
      (19)   Tool, die and pattern making, and other machine shop operations;
      (20)   Boat building;
      (21)   Railroad yards or terminal facilities;
      (22)   Other uses similar to those enumerated above; and
      (23)   Retail uses pursuant to B-1 or B-2 Districts.
   (b)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily appurtenant to a principal
permitted use such as incidental storage facilities; and
      (2)   Residence of a watchman, custodian or caretaker employed on the
premises.
   (c)   Permitted special uses. (See §
1309.09 of this article.) (The following special use is permitted, subject to
review by the Board of Zoning Appeals.)
      (1)   Bulk storage of fluids;
      (2)   Automobile salvage and wrecking operations, outdoor storage and
junk yards; provided that, such operations is conducted not less than 200 feet
from any residence or business district; and, provided that, all operations are
conducted behind a solid wall or fence not less than eight feet high and
maintained in good repair;
      (3)   Any other use deemed by the Board as compatible with existing uses,
including additions and such uses, under appropriate conditions and safeguards,
as are deemed appropriate to the Board and not likely to adversely affect
adjoining or adjacent uses; and
      (4)   Planned industrial development group. (See
Art. 1321  of this part.).
   (d)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements; permitted uses.
 
Lot Area      Lot Width  Front Yard Depth Side Yard Depth Rear Yard Depth
(square feet) (feet)     (feet)           Minimum Total   (feet)
                                          (feet)
10,000        100        10               10              20
Other uses    (as established elsewhere)
 
   (e)   Off-street parking spaces. (See
Art. 1317 of this part.)
   (f)   Required conditions. Any use or activity which is not wholly within a
completely enclosed building shall not be less than 100 feet from any abutting
residence district, shall be screened by a solid wall or fence at least eight
feet in height and maintained in good repair.
(Passed (2-14-78.)
§ 1309.09 SPECIAL USES.
   Uses listed as “Special Uses” shall require individual consideration in each
case because of their unique characteristics. Such “Special Uses” may be
permitted only upon review and authorization by the Board of Zoning Appeals,
subject to certain conditions and safeguards.
   (a)   General principles and standards for special uses.
      (1)   The use should be one specifically enumerated as a special use in
the district within which such particular site is located.
      (2)   For every special use, the Board shall make a specific finding,
supported by evidence produced at a public hearing, in a manner provided by
law, that such use will not be prejudicial to the character of the area.
      (3)   For every such special use, the Board shall determine that there is
appropriate provisions for access facilities adequate for the estimated traffic
from public streets and sidewalks so as to ensure public safety and to avoid
traffic congestions.
      (4)   For every such special use, the Board shall determine that there
are fully adequate parking areas and off-street loading spaces, in conformity
with the parking requirements of this and other related ordinances.
      (5)   For specified special use, the Board shall require suitable
planting or screening in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance.
      (6)   Specified uses for which special permits may be issued shall be
deemed to be permitted uses, subject to the meeting of the special conditions
contained in this section. Any special use lawfully established as provided for
herein shall be deemed a conforming use as of the time of its establishment.
      (7)   The use will be of such location, size and character that,
generally, it will be in harmony with the appropriate and orderly development
of the district in which the use is situated and will not be detrimental to the
orderly development of adjacent properties, nor inconsistent with the
officially adopted Comprehensive Plan.
   (b)   Specific regulations governing special uses. Each special use shall be
considered an individual case, and such use shall conform to the standards of
the Zoning Ordinance:
      (1)   Community buildings, social halls, lodges, fraternal organizations
and similar uses.
         (a)   In R district where permitted, all buildings shall be a minimum
of 20 feet from any property line.
         (b)   In R districts where permitted, there may be included retail
sales for guests, only.
         (c)   All applications for such uses in R districts shall demonstrate
that the proposed use will serve primarily the residents of the surrounding
neighborhood and that such use cannot satisfactorily be located elsewhere.
         (d)   In R districts, where permitted, such uses shall not be located
on lots of less than 12,000 square feet with a minimum frontage of 100 feet.
      (2)   Conversions. All conversions shall have at least one off-street
parking space per dwelling unit, and each unit shall have adequate light, air,
heating and plumbing facilities and shall have at least 3,000 square feet of
lot area and 600 square feet of floor area for each dwelling unit, but no
converted building shall have more than a total of four dwelling units.
      (3)   Retail uses in industrial zones. Such uses shall be permitted only
where the applicant can prove to the Board that such use is necessary to serve
primarily industrial uses in the vicinity.
      (4)   Related residential uses. Nursing and convalescent homes, rooming
houses and nurseries for the day care of young children shall comply with the
following.
         (a)   Any such use shall have sufficient off-street parking to serve
the anticipated number of users and employees, and shall have suitable street
access without causing undue traffic congestion on local residential streets.
         (b)   All such buildings shall conform to the minimum lot size,
minimum yards and maximum height regulations otherwise specified.
      (5)   Appropriate public uses. Any public use permitted by the Board as
special use shall appropriate to the character of the district in which it is
proposed and to the area which it will serve. Such appropriate public uses
shall have adequate access and shall provide off-street parking and loading.
      (6)   Hospitals. Minimum lot size shall be one acre; no structure shall
be nearer than 25 feet to any street or other property line; the building(s)
shall not occupy over 50% of the lot area.
      (7)   Public utilities. Proof must be furnished that the proposed
location is necessary for the efficiency of the service to be provided; that
the design of any buildings or structures are in keeping with the character of
the district in which it is to locate, and will in no way adversely affect the
safe and comfortable enjoyment of property rights; that adequate and attractive
fences and other safety devices will be provided, and that sufficient
landscaping, including shrubs, trees and lawns, is provided and will be
maintained.
      (8)   Tourist homes. At least one off-street parking space shall be
provided for each rentable bedroom.
      (9)   Joint occupancy. Entrance to the residential areas shall be off the
street on which the building fronts; no dwelling unit shall contain less than
500 square feet of floor space and shall be a complete housekeeping unit.
      (10)   Filling station. Minimum lot size shall be 10,000 square feet;
such station shall not be located within 50 feet of a residence, school, church
or other institutional buildings; all pumps must be at least 15 feet from any
street, and no driveways shall be within 30 feet of any street intersection. No
disabled or wrecked vehicles shall be parked or stored outside of a building or
structure for more than seven days.
      (11)   Automobile salvage and wrecking operations, outdoor storage and
junk yards. May not be located nearer than 200 feet to any residence or
business district; must be enclosed by a solid fence at least eight feet in
height; must be kept in good order and repair at all times, and one appropriate
sign will be permitted in identifying the type of business.
      (12)   Gaming establishments.
         (a)   Such establishments shall not be located within 750 feet of each
other.
         (b)   No gambling establishment shall be permitted within 1,000 feet
of any church, place of worship, library, school, community center, child day
care center or publicly owned property designated as a playground, park or
otherwise under the control and supervision of the Town of Nutter Fort.
         (c)   A gambling establishment may be situated without adhering to the
restrictions in subsections (b)(12)(a) and/or (b)(12)(b) above only when such
an establishment has previously existed at the proposed location within the
last 30 days.
         (d)   The existing gambling establishment locations in the Town of
Nutter Fort are as follows:
            1.   409 Buckhannon Pike;
            2.   1512 Buckhannon Pike;
            3.   424 Buckhannon Pike;
            4.   1635 Buckhannon Pike; and
            5.   1422 Buckhannon Pike.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 7-26-2005; Ord. passed 9-27-2005; Ord.
passed 2-7-2006)
ARTICLE 1313: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
Section
   
1313.01   Permitted exceptions from lot, height and yard requirements
   
1313.02   Special lots and building locations
   
1313.03   Accessory structures and uses
   
1313.04   Signs
   
1313.05   General landscape regulations
   
1313.06   Excavations
Cross References
   Off-street parking and loading, see Part Thirteen,
Art. 1317
   Planned Development Groups, see Part Thirteen,
Art. 1321
   Trailers and Mobile Home Parks, see Part Thirteen,
Art. 1325
§ 1313.01 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS FROM LOT, HEIGHT AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot, yard and height requirements herein set forth shall prevail
in all cases, except as follows.
   (a)   Existing non-conforming lots. A single-family dwelling may be
constructed as a permitted use in any R district on a nonconforming lot if the
following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   At the time of the passage of this Zoning Ordinance, such lot is in
existence as a separate entity;
      (2)   At the time of the passage of this Zoning Ordinance, the owner of
the lot does not own an adjoining lot; and
      (3)   The plan for the lot and for the proposed single-family dwelling
shall be in at least 70% in compliance with each of the following requirements
for single-family dwellings as specified in the district in which the lot is
located: lot area; lot width; rear yard; side yard; and maximum building
coverage.
   (b)   Height limitations. Height limitations need not apply to church
spires, cupolas and domes, monuments, water towers, chimneys, smokestacks,
silos, flag poles, radio and television towers, masts and aerials, and parapet
walls extending not more than four feet above the limiting height of the
building.
   (c)   Projections into yards. Projections into required yards shall be
permitted as follows; except that, in no case shall a structure or projection
be located closer than five feet to any side and rear lot line and 20 feet to
any front lot line, excluding public utility connections.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1313.02 SPECIAL LOTS AND BUILDING LOCATIONS.
   (a)   Structures near rights-of-way. No part of any structure shall set
within five feet of a lot line which abuts upon a public right-of-way,
excluding public utility connections.
   (b)   Through lots. Where a single lot under individual ownership extends
from one street to another parallel or nearly parallel street or alley, the
Board shall decide which street will be considered the front street.
   (c)   Side yard of a corner lot. The side yard of a corner lot which abuts a
public right-of-way of 20 feet or more in width shall not be less than one-
fourth the required front yard for that street.
   (d)   Corner lots. No obstruction to vision (other than an existing
building, post, column or tree) exceeding 30 inches in height shall be erected
or maintained on any lot within the triangle formed by the street intersection,
created by the right-of-way line of each street extended to a point and a line
drawn between two points each located 20 feet from the street intersections.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1313.03 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (a)   Home occupations. Home occupations are permitted as an accessory use
in a residential structure; provided that, such home occupations shall be
conducted only by residents of the dwelling unit who may not employ more than
two non-resident persons and that the only external evidence of the home
occupation shall be a sign not exceeding one and one-half square feet in area.
Such home occupations shall be restricted to professional offices, the training
of children in small classes, custom dressmaking, millinery or tailoring and
the like and the rooming or boarding of not more than two persons.
   (b)   Private parking areas and garages. Accessory off-street parking areas
or garages serving the residential or non-residential parking demand created by
the principal building are permitted. Such parking areas may be located in any
required front, side or rear yard. Accessory garages, unless a part of the
principal building, shall conform with requirements for accessory structures.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 8-10-2010)
§ 1313.04 SIGNS.
   (a)   Business signs. In any commercial or industrial zone, one or more
business signs in the commercial and industrial districts are permitted;
provided that, such signs shall not have a combined gross surface area in
square feet exceeding two times the frontage of the lot on which they are
located and, in no case, shall any single sign exceed 100 square feet. In
residential districts, existing business or advertising signs shall not be
enlarged or altered.
   (b)   Residential signs. Non-advertising signs accessory to non-residence
uses located in residence districts are permitted; provided, they do not exceed
ten square feet in size. The number of signs shall be restricted to one to each
property or dwelling unit, entrance, exit or building to which it pertains;
except that, properties located on corner lots may have one sign facing each
street, equaling ten square feet.
   (c)   Location of signs. All signs located in any required yard shall
conform to the height of such structure therein and shall not project into or
over any public right-of-way.
   (d)   Illumination of signs. No illuminating or flashing sign shall create
excessive glare or brightness which will adversely affect abutting properties
or create a nuisance or hazardous condition.
   (e)   Advertising billboards. Where permitted, the following requirements
shall apply: no such sign shall be permitted to be within 100 feet of any
property in a residence district, public or non-public school, library, church,
hospital or similar institution.
   (f)   Prohibited signs and general regulations. The following prohibitions
and general regulations shall apply to signs in all districts.
      (1)   No spotlight, floodlight, luminous tubes or lighted sign shall be
installed in any way which will permit the direct rays of such light to
penetrate into any residence district.
      (2)   No advertising device of which all or any part is set in motion by
movement of the atmosphere including fluttering or rotating shall be permitted.
      (3)   Neon lighting and tubing may be used on or as permitted signs, but
it is not permitted to outline buildings or structures or ornamental features
by use of exposed neon tubing, strings of lights or otherwise.
      (4)   No wall sign shall be attached to, or obstruct any window, door,
stairway or other opening intended for ingress or egress or for needed
ventilation and light.
      (5)   Any sign which has not been used for more than six months to
advertise a business, activity, campaign, product or service, and which is in a
state of disrepair, may be subject to removal by the Zoning Inspector upon the
following conditions: if such a sign shall not be repaired and made usable by
the owner thereof within 30 days after receipt of written notice of the
condition of the sign from the Zoning Inspector, then the Zoning Inspector may
cause removal of such sign and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by
the owner of the sign.
      (6)   Any permitted sign painted directly on the surface of any wall
shall be required to be repainted at least every three years.
      (7)   Gooseneck and thin line reflectors and lighting shall be permitted
on indirectly illuminated signs; provided, such reflectors and lights do not
extend more than eight feet beyond the sign structure to which attached and
such illumination is directed upon the face of the sign to reduce possibility
of direct light rays shining into adjoining property or the public way.
      (8)   No light, sign or other advertising structure shall be erected in
such a manner or location as to be confused by reason of position, shape or
color with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
      (9)   Temporary signs, banners, posters and placards shall be permitted
in any district after a special permit has been obtained from the town. Wall
signs shall be removed within three days following the conclusion of the
temporary occasion requiring such signs. Nothing herein contained shall
prohibit the erection of a sign, not exceeding ten square feet in area,
advertising the property upon which the sign is to be erected for sale; and no
permission shall be required for such sign.
      (10)   Other regulations as set forth in any ordinance regulating signs.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1313.05 GENERAL LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Any enclosed use required by this Zoning Ordinance to be landscaped
shall provide a fence six feet high, or a visual screen consisting of evergreen
or evergreen-type hedges or shrubs spaced at intervals of not more than six
feet located and maintained in good condition within ten feet of the property
line.
   (b)   (1)   Any use which is not conducted within a completely enclosed
building, such as storage yards, lumber and building materials yards, and
parking lots shall be entirely enclosed by a fence, the height and type to be
determined by the Zoning Inspector as sufficient to carry out the objectives of
this section.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to nurseries and the display for sales
purposes of new or used automobiles, trucks, trailers and/or boats, except when
abutting an R district.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1313.06 EXCAVATIONS.
   Any excavations for the removal of gravel or mineral deposits of any kind
must secure a permit from the Zoning Inspector for such excavation, and each
permit shall be reviewed by the Board to determine whether the following
requirements are adequate to protect the public:
   (a)   Enclosed by an eight-foot fence located at least ten feet from the
sides or perimeter of the excavation;
   (b)   Adequately drained to prevent the formation of pools of water; and
   (c)   The side walls of all such excavations slope at an angle no steeper
than one foot of vertical distance for each two feet of horizontal distance.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
ARTICLE 1317: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1317.01   Minimum required off-street loading requirements
   
1317.02   Minimum required off-street loading berths
   
1317.03   Off-street parking and parking spaces
Cross References
   Parking regulations generally, see Part Three,
Art. 361
§ 1317.01 MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
Uses Minimum Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Uses                                Minimum Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Bowling alleys                      5 parking spaces for each alley
Community buildings, country clubs, 1 for each 200 square feet of floor area
social halls, lodges, fraternal     occupied by all principal and accessory
organizations and similar uses      structures
Convention halls, skating rinks,    1 parking space for each four permanent
exhibition halls, stadia, sports    seats, plus 1 parking space for every 75
arenas, auditoria and other places  square feet of floor area not containing
of public assembly                  seats
Doctors and dentists                5 spaces for each doctor’s or dentist’s
                                    office
Funeral homes and mortuaries        5 parking spaces for each parlor
Hospital, nursing and convalescent  1 for each 2 beds
homes
                                    1 parking space for each 5 permanent seats
                                    in the principal room of worship. When
Houses of worship                   individual seats are not provided, each 20
                                    inches of benches shall be considered 1
                                    seat
Manufacturing, industrial and       1 for each 1,000 square feet of floor area,
general commercial uses not         plus 1 for each 4 employees on the maximum
otherwise specified herein          working shift
Mobile home trailer court           1 for each trailer occupant
Motels, hotels                      1 for each rentable unit
                                    1 for each family occupancy (Unless just
New construction of R1, R2, R3      cause can be shown why this is not
                                    feasible.)
Offices                             1 space for every 400 square feet of
                                    rentable floor area
Planned commercial development      1 parking space for each 100 square feet of
groups, shopping centers            floor area where the floor area exceeds
                                    2,000 square feet
Restaurants, bars and night clubs   1 for each 4 seats
Retail stores, store groups, shop   1 for each 300 square feet of floor area
and the like                        where the floor area exceeds 1,000 square
                                    feet
Wholesale establishments or         1 for each 2 employees on the maximum shift
warehouses
 
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1317.02 MINIMUM REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING BERTHS.
Uses Square Feet of Total Floor Area Number of Berths
Uses                       Square Feet of Total Floor Area Number of Berths
Hospitals (in addition to  From 10,0000 - 30,000           1
space for ambulances)      For each additional 30,000 or   1 addition
                           major fraction thereof
                           From 10,000 - 25,000            1
Offices; motels, retail    From 25,001 - 40,000            2
commercial, wholesale,     From 40,001 - 60,000            3
manufacturing, storage and From 60,001 - 100,000           4
miscellaneous uses         For each additional 50,000 or   1 addition
                           fraction thereof
Schools                    15,000 or more                  1
 
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1317.03 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (a)   Requirement for parking. In all districts, there shall be provided, at
the time any building or structure is erected, is enlarged or increased in
capacity, off-street parking spaces in accordance with the requirements set
forth herein.
      (1)   Number of parking spaces required. The number of off-street parking
spaces required shall be as set forth in §
1317.01 of this article.
      (2)   Size. Each off-street parking space shall have a minimum area of
200 square feet, exclusive of access drives and aisles, and shall be of usable
shape and condition.
      (3)   Access. There should be adequate provision for ingress and egress
to all parking spaces. Access drives or driveways should be no less than 12
feet wide for ingress and egress and 20 feet wide for both ingress and egress.
No driveway or access drive shall be closer than 50 feet to any street
intersection.
      (4)   Location. All permitted and required accessory off-street parking
and loading spaces, open or enclosed, should be located on or immediately
adjacent to the same lot as the use to which such spaces are accessory but may
be provided within a radius of 300 feet from the lot boundary. Such spaces
shall be in the same ownership as the use to which they are accessory and
should be subject to deed restrictions, binding the owner and his or her heirs
and all successors to maintain the number of spaces available throughout the
life of such use. Parking is permitted on the roof of any structures; provided,
a four-foot wall is constructed around the perimeter of the roof.
      (5)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking and loading areas for
four or more vehicles shall be effectively screened by a fence or hedge on the
side or sides adjoining or abutting an R district.
      (6)   Surfacing. Any off-street parking or loading area for four or more
spaces shall be surfaced with an asphaltic or concrete pavement or any durable
all-weather surface. All areas should be marked so as to provide for the
orderly and safe loading, parking and storage of vehicles.
      (7)   Lighting. All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking or
loading area should be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining
premises.
      (8)   Drainage. Any off-street parking and loading area should be graded
and drained so as to dispose of all surface water without detriment to
surrounding uses.
   (b)   Parking for houses of worship. The number of required off-street
parking spaces may be eliminated or reduced if there exists, within 500 feet of
the houses of worship, public or private parking lots containing a sufficient
number of off-street parking spaces to satisfy the requirements of §
1317.01 of this article. The house of worship shall provide the difference if
the number of parking spaces in the private or public lots is below the number
required by §
1317.01 of this article. Any spaces provided in public or private lots must be
shown to be available for worshipers on the day or days of greatest uses.
   (c)   Off-street loading.
      (1)   In commercial or industrial zones, there shall be provided and
maintained, on the same lot with the principal use, off-street loading berths
in accordance with requirements of §
1317.02 of this article.
      (2)   Each loading space shall not be less than 14 feet in width, 40 feet
in length, and have a minimum clearance of 15 feet, may occupy all or any part
of any required yard, except the front yard.
   (d)   Joint facilities for parking or loading. Off-street parking and
loading facilities for separate uses may be provided jointly if the total
number of spaces so provided is not less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each use; and, provided that, all regulations governing the
location of accessory spaces in relation to the use served are adhered to.
Further, no accessory space or portion thereof shall serve as a required space
for more than one use unless otherwise approved by the Board in accordance with
the purpose and procedures set forth herein.
   (e)   Service station, parking areas and garages. No filling station or
commercial parking areas or garage for 25 or more motor vehicles shall have an
entrance or exit for vehicles within 200 feet along the same side of a street
on which is located a school, public playground, church, hospital, public
library or institution for dependents or for children, except where such
property is in another block or on another street on which the lot does not
abut. Such access shall be not closer to the intersection of any two streets
than 50 feet.
      (1)   Location of oil drainage pits and hydraulic lifts. No oil draining
pit or hydraulic lift shall be located closer than 25 feet to any R district,
except when such pit or lift is within a building.
      (2)   Work area. In any filling station or other establishment where
motor vehicles are permitted to be serviced or repaired, all repair operations
shall be conducted within a building.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
ARTICLE 1321: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT GROUPS
Section
   
1321.01   Review by Planning Commission
   
1321.02   Requirements
   
1321.03   Review and approval
Cross References
   Definitions, see Part Thirteen, §
1305.01
§ 1321.01 REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   A planned development group may be permitted on a site of a continuous
parcel of land which shall not be less than two acres or 67,120 square feet
after the review and recommendation of the Planning Commission, in accordance
with the following general requirements and the indicated procedure.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1321.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   In any R district, such development group shall meet the standards of
the district; except that, yard requirements need be applied only to the site
boundaries; more than one building may be permitted on sites held by one owner
or in common ownership. A site plan shall be submitted showing the proposed
location of buildings, driveways, walkways, off-street parking areas,
recreational areas and such other features as the Commission may reasonably
require, including a copy of any deed restrictions.
   (b)   In any B district, in addition to the foregoing, as may be applicable,
information shall be furnished regarding ways of ingress and egress,
contemplated effect on the traffic on adjoining streets, location and size of
signs, type of exterior lighting, extent and kind of landscaping.
   (c)   In an I district, the foregoing requirements, as may be applicable,
shall be observed, in addition to such others as the Commission may consider
essential.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1321.03 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Before any action on any of the plans for a planned development group, the
plan and any supplemental information shall be submitted to the Commission for
study and report. Reasonable requirements may be recommended by the Commission
for the protection of adjoining property. The Commission shall report its
recommendations for approval or disapproval, together with the reasons therefor
and additional requirements, if any, to Council for action. After holding a
public hearing on the plan, approval of the plan shall constitute permission to
proceed with development. Any conceptual or fundamental change on the approved
site plan shall be in accordance with the procedure outlined in the approval of
the plan.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
ARTICLE 1325: TRAILERS OR MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
1325.01   Travel trailers
   
1325.02   Establishment
   
1325.03   Design and maintenance
   
1325.04   Manufactured buildings
   
1325.05   Mobile homes
Cross References
   Power to regulate trailer camps, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(30)
   Mobile Home Safety Act, see W.Va. Code Art. 21-9
§ 1325.01 TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   (a)   In any district, the wheels of any trailer shall not be removed,
except for repairs, nor shall any trailer be otherwise permanently fixed to the
ground in a manner that would prevent removal of such trailer, except as
provided hereinafter.
   (b)   No person shall occupy any trailer on any premises in any district
outside an approved trailer park, except when meeting all the requirements
stipulated hereinbefore for residential structures. The parking of an
unoccupied trailer in an accessory private garage, or in a rear yard in any
district shall be permitted; provided, no living quarters shall be maintained
or any business conducted in such trailer while so parked.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1325.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (a)   An application for the establishment of a trailer park in any R
district shall be filed with the Zoning Inspector, for action by the Board, and
must be accompanied by a scale drawing.
   (b)   The sanitary regulations prescribed by the Health Department or other
authority having jurisdiction, the regulations of the Building Code and as may
be otherwise required by law, shall be complied with, in addition to the
following regulations.
      (1)   Trailer parks shall comply with all area and yard requirements
prescribed for such uses in the district in which located.
      (2)   The trailers and buildings in any trailer park, together with any
non-accessory buildings already on the lot shall not occupy in the aggregate
more than 25% of the area of the lot.
      (3)   All areas not used for access, parking, circulation, buildings and
service shall be completely and permanently landscaped and the entire site
adequately maintained. A landscaped strip of land, not less than eight feet in
width, shall be established and maintained within the trailer park along its
exterior boundaries.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1325.03 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE.
   Trailer parks shall be designed and maintained in accordance with the
following requirements.
   (a)   The minimum trailer park area shall be 120 feet by 120 feet.
   (b)   The minimum lot area per trailer unit shall be 3,600 square feet.
   (c)   The minimum distance between neighboring trailers shall be not less
than 16 feet.
   (d)   Each trailer unit shall be equipped with a concrete slab of sufficient
size to support the wheels and the front parking. Such slab shall have a
minimum thickness of four inches. Each trailer unit shall be properly
underpinned and anchored within 30 days.
   (e)   Each trailer unit shall be equipped with one electric connector. A
sanitary sewer and water system shall be installed in accordance with local
specifications.
   (f)   No trailer shall remain in a trailer park for a period exceeding 15
days without connection to the permanent sanitary sewer system of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1325.04 MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS.
   (a)   A MANUFACTURED BUILDING (MODULAR) is a building of closed construction
and which is made or assembled in manufacturing facilities on or off the
building site for installation, or assembly and installation on the building
site, other than mobile homes or recreational vehicles (NEC 545-3). It may be
used for residential, commercial, industrial or educational purposes. A
manufactured building is not permanently mounted on a chassis. (See § 1325.05
of this article and NEC 550 for mobile home rules.)
      (1)   Similar construction methods make it difficult to determine whether
a structure requiring service is a “mobile home” or a “manufactured building.”
To classify the structure as a “manufactured building”, the following condition
shall all be met:
         (a)   Two-inch by four-inch by six-inch wall construction;
         (b)   Wooden floor joists;
         (c)   Trussed roof, with shingles; and
         (d)   Running gear designed to be removed by normal means and returned
to manufacturer.
      (2)   A manufactured home is considered a permanent dwelling when it
meets all of the following conditions:
         (a)   It is located on property that would normally be sold with the
home;
         (b)   It is supported on a permanent foundation; and
         (c)   Water and sewage facilities are installed.
   (b)   Wiring in a manufactured home shall have a minimum 100-ampere service
entrance (NEC 545-5 and 230-42) and meet all the requirements of Section 5.
      (1)   Metal framing shall be solidly grounded to grounding (green)
conductor or grounding system (not the grounded (white) conductor.)
      (2)   A non-site inspection of service entrance conductors, metering
equipment, service equipment and ground shall be made by company personnel and/
or a local inspector.
   (c)   The service equipment shall be located at a readily accessible point
nearest the point of entrance of the service conductors either inside or
outside of the building (NEC 545-7).
   (d)   (1)   For a permanently located home, service will be extended by
either underground service lateral or when adequate mechanical support can be
assured, by overhead service drop.
      (2)   It shall be the customer’s responsibility to provide adequate
support for the company service drop conductors, provide and route the service
entrance conductors from the service equipment to the point of attachment of
the service drop and provide and route the grounding electrode conductor from
the service equipment to the point of attachment to the grounding electrode(s).
(Ord. passed 11-8-1994)
§ 1325.05 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   A factory-assembled structure or structures equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units on its own running gear and designed to be used as a dwelling unit(s)
without a permanent foundation (NEC 550-2). The mobile home may be a single-
wide, double-wide or have an expandable section.
   (B)   The mobile home service equipment shall be rated at least 100 amperes
and shall also adhere to the following conditions (NEC 550-23b).
      (1)   The service equipment shall not be mounted in or on the mobile home
(NEC 550-23a).
      (2)   The mobile home service equipment shall be readily accessible and
shall be located in sight from and not more than 30 feet from the exterior wall
of the mobile home it serves (NEC 550-23a). The service equipment shall be
permitted to be located elsewhere provided a disconnecting means and grounding
electrode system suitable for service equipment is located in sight from and
not more than 30 feet from the exterior wall of the mobile home it serves (NEC
550-23, exception).
   (c)   The power supply to a mobile home used for residential purposes shall
be a feeder assembly from the point of attachment at the service equipment to
the point of attachment at the distribution panel consisting of one of the
following methods (see Fig. 9, 10 and 10A) (NEC 550-5):
      (1)   A power supply cord of the three-pole, four-wire grounding type
rated up to 50 amperes and shall have appropriate overcurrent protection (NEC
550-5 and 550-24); or
      (2)   Four insulated conductors, one of which shall be an equipment
grounding conductor, (sized according to the equipment grounding conductor
table of the National Electrical Code, (NEC Table 250-95) permanently installed
either overhead or underground (NEC 550-24). The permanently installed feeder
shall have an ampacity of at least 100 amperes (NEC 550-23b and 550-24b).
   (d)   The power supply to a mobile home used for nonresidential purposes
shall be four-wire and installed in accordance with provisions of subsection
(c) above, but need have only sufficient ampacity to carry the required load
current (NEC 550-4a).
   (e)   Each service equipment, meter enclosure or meter board shall be
identified with the mobile home it serves.
(Ord. passed 11-8-1994)
ARTICLE 1329: FENCES
Section
   
1329.01   Definition
   
1329.02   Location, height and maintenance
   
1329.03   Permit requirement
   
1329.04   Grudge fence
 
   
1329.99   Penalty
§ 1329.01 DEFINITION.
   A FENCE is defined as any structure of wood, metal, masonry, plastic or
other synthetic material designed, used, erected and affixed to the real estate
for the purpose of enclosing or separating any portion of the real estate from
adjoining land whether or not such fence is located on the boundary line of the
property to which is appertains.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2004)
§ 1329.02 LOCATION, HEIGHT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   All fencing must be located inside the survey pins of the property to
which it appertains.
   (b)   Fence and retaining wall heights shall not exceed those found below.
 
Yard           Height (feet)
Front          4
Rear           8
Side
   Lot side 8
   Street si4e
 
   (c)   All fences shall be maintained structurally and in a manner to prevent
rust, corrosion and deterioration so as to not become a public or private
nuisance, dilapidated or a danger to adjoining property owners and the public.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2004)
§ 1329.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (a)   The installation, erection and/or maintenance of a fence is hereby
prohibited, except in strict compliance with this article. A permit to be
issued by the Town of Nutter Fort shall be obtained prior to installation or
erection of any fence.
   (b)   Any person making an application for a fence permit must pay a permit
fee and present a survey of the premises so that a true and valid location of
the proposed fence erection can be determined
   (c)   It shall be a violation of this article to commence to erect a fence
without first obtaining a fence permit. Fence permits may be obtained at Town
Hall.
   (d)   Contractors that erect fences within the town must have a contractor’s
license issued by the town.
   (e)   Any fence existing upon the effective date of this article may not be
enlarged, extended or replaced, except in strict compliance with all of the
requirements of this article.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2004)
§ 1329.04 GRUDGE FENCE.
   Any new fence to be placed on an adjoining piece of property shall be placed
in a manner and at a distance from any preexisting fence so that the area
between the two fences may be kept well maintained. This shall be the sole
responsibility of the person(s) erecting the grudge fence.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2004)
§ 1329.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation, or anyone acting on behalf thereof, who
violates any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $100, or to
imprisonment in the for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both, at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2004)
CHAPTER THREE: ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE 1341: NON-CONFORMING USES
Section
   
1341.01   Continuation of use
   
1341.02   Regulation of non-conforming uses
   
1341.03   Termination of non-conforming uses
Cross References
   Existing uses safeguarded, see W.Va. Code § 8A-7-10
   Validation of existing ordinances, see W.Va. Code § 8A-7-10
§ 1341.01 CONTINUATION OF USE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, the lawful use of any
building, structure or land existing at the time of the enactment of this
Zoning Ordinance, or any applicable amendment thereto, may be continued,
although such use does not conform to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1341.02 REGULATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   No existing building or structure devoted to a non-conforming use shall be
enlarged, extended, reconstructed or structurally altered, except as follows.
   (a)   Restoration. If any non-conforming building or structure, which as a
result of fire, explosion or other casualty, has less than two-thirds of its
fair sale value, including foundation made unsafe or unusable, such non-
conforming building or structure may be restored, reconstructed or used as
before; provided that, the bulk, height and area requirements shall not be in
the excess of those which existed prior to the damage. Such restoration must be
completed within one year of such occurrence, or the use of such building,
structure or land as a legal non-conforming use shall thereafter be terminated.
   (b)   Extension and displacement. A non-conforming use shall not be
extended, but the extension of a lawful use to any portion of a non-conforming
building which existed prior to the enactment of this Zoning Ordinance shall be
deemed the extension of such non-conforming use. No non-conforming use shall be
extended to displace a conforming use.
   (c)   Unsafe structures. Any non-conforming building or structure or portion
thereof declared unsafe by proper authority may be restored to a proper
condition.
   (d)   Alterations and repairs. A non-conforming building or structure for
other than residential purposes may not be reconstructed or structurally
altered during its life to an extent that such alterations exceed in aggregate
cost two-thirds of the full valuation of the building or structure, exclusive
of the value of land, unless such building or structure is changed to a
conforming use. A non-conforming building or structure containing residential
use may be altered in any way to improve interior livability; provided that, no
structural alteration shall be made which would increase the non-conformity
with regard to the number of housing units or the bulk of the building or
structure. Normal maintenance repairs and incidental alteration of a building
or structure containing a non-conforming use shall be permitted; provided that,
such repairs and alterations do not extend the volume of area of space occupied
by the non-conforming use.
   (e)   Change of use. A non-conforming use or structure may be changed to
another non-conforming use of an equal or more restricted classification;
provided that, no structural change, enlargement, extension or reconstruction
is made.
      (1)   A non-conforming use may be changed into a conforming use.
      (2)   When a non-conforming use is changed into a conforming use or a
more restricted non-conforming use, the use of the structure, building or land
shall not thereafter be changed into a non-conforming use or a less restricted
non-conforming use.
   (f)   Prior approval. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in
the plans, construction or designated use of a building complying with existing
laws, a permit for which had been duly granted before the date of adoption of
this Zoning Ordinance or any applicable amendment thereto; providing that, such
building shall be completed according to such plans as filed within six months
from the date of this Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1341.03 TERMINATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (a)   Abandonment. The discontinuance of a non-conforming use for a period
of six months or the change of use to a more restrictive or conforming use for
any period of time shall be considered an abandonment thereof, and such non-
conforming use shall not thereafter be revived.
   (b)   Partial destruction. Any non-conforming building or structure, which
as a result of fire, explosion or other casualty, has two-thirds or more of its
fair sale value destroyed, including its foundation, immediately prior to such
damage, the use of such building or structure, as a non-conforming use, shall
thereafter be terminated and any new construction shall be in accordance with
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
   (c)   Amortization and fencing.
      (1)   Non-conforming signs shall be discontinued and removed or changed
to a use permitted in the respective district not later than two years after
the adoption of this Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Every junk yard existing as a non-conforming use shall, within two
years after becoming non-conforming, be completely enclosed with a continuous
solid fence or evergreen hedge found on determination of the Zoning Inspector
to be of such height and character as to screen all of the operations from
public view. Such fence or hedge shall be adequately maintained and in full
conformity with any conditions attached to such approval.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
ARTICLE 1345: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
1345.01   Enforcement officer
   
1345.02   Plans
   
1345.03   Certificate of occupancy
   
1345.04   Violations
   
1345.05   Legal actions
   
1345.06   Existing uses safeguard
Cross References
   Enforcement, see W.Va. Code § 8A-10-1
   Injunction, see W.Va. Code § 8A-10-3
   Penalty, see W.Va. Code § 8A-10-2
§ 1345.01 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the person designated as the Zoning Inspector, with
the aid of the Police Department, to enforce this Zoning Ordinance in
accordance with the administrative provisions of the Building Code, if any, and
this Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1345.02 PLANS.
   Every application for a building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
accompanied by plans in duplicate, based on a survey and drawn to scale in ink
or blueprint, showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the exact location, size and height of the building or structure to be
erected or altered, the existing and intended use of each building or part, the
proposed number of families or housekeeping units, and such other information
with regard to the lot and neighboring lots as may be necessary for the
enforcement of this Zoning Ordinance. One copy of such plans shall be returned
to the applicant when approved by the Zoning Inspector together with such
permit or certificate as may be granted.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1345.03 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Before using any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted or enlarged in use or structure, a certificate of
occupancy shall be obtained from the Zoning Inspector. Such certificate shall
show that such building or premises, or part thereof, and the proposed use
thereof conform with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1345.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500, for each
offense. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978; Ord. passed 7-23-1991)
§ 1345.05 LEGAL ACTIONS.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered or converted, or any building, structure or premises is used in
violation of the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, the Town Attorney is
hereby authorized to institute an action to enjoin, or any other appropriate
action or proceeding to prevent such erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, conversion or use.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1345.06 EXISTING USES SAFEGUARD.
   (a)   Nothing contained in this Zoning Ordinance shall prohibit the
continuance of the use of any land, building or structure for the purpose for
which such land, building or structure is used at the time such ordinance or
ordinances take effect, but any alteration or addition to any land or any
alteration, addition or replacement of or to any existing building or structure
for the purpose of carrying on any use prohibited under the zoning rules and
regulations applicable to the district may be prohibited; provided that, no
such prohibition shall apply to alterations or additions to buildings or
structures by any farm, industry or manufacturing, or to the use of land
presently owned by any farm, industry or manufacturer, but not used for
agricultural, industrial or manufacturing purposes, or to the use or
acquisition of additional land which may be required for the protection,
continuing or expansion of any agricultural, industrial or manufacturing
operation or any present of future satellite agricultural, industrial or
manufacturing use. If a non-conforming use has been abandoned, any future use
of such land, building or structure shall be in conformity with the provisions
of the ordinance regulating the use in the district in which such land,
building or structure may be located; provided, however, that, abandonment of
any particular agricultural, industrial or manufacturing process shall not be
construed as abandonment of agricultural, industrial or manufacturing use.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this article shall be deemed to authorize an
ordinance, rule and regulation which would prevent, outside of urban areas, the
complete use and alienation of any timber and any and all minerals, including
coal, oil and gas, by the owner or a licensee thereof. For the purpose of this
section, URBAN AREA shall include all lands or lots within the jurisdiction of
a Municipal Planning Commission, as defined in this article.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
ARTICLE 1349: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
Section
   
1349.01   Creation, membership and procedure
   
1349.02   Applications and appeals
   
1349.03   Stay of proceedings
   
1349.04   Application for appeal of actions of authorities
Cross References
   Appeals, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-9-1 et seq.
   Establishment; composition, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-8-1 et seq.
   Injunctions, see W.Va. Code § 8A-10-3
   Open governmental proceedings, see W.Va. Code Art. 6-9A
§ 1349.01 CREATION, MEMBERSHIP AND PROCEDURE.
   (a)   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall be appointed in accordance with the
provisions of W.Va. Code § 8A-8-1. Such Board shall consist of five members.
   (b)   The Board shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations for its
own government, not inconsistent with law or with the provisions of this or any
other pertinent ordinance. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson
or, in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and
compel attendance of witnesses.
   (c)   Hearings of the Board shall be public; minutes shall be kept of
proceedings, showing the action of the Board and the vote of each member upon
each question, and records shall be made of the Board’s examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be filed immediately in the office of the
Board as a public record.
   (d)   Three members of the Board shall act by resolution, and the concurring
vote of three members shall be necessary to reverse any order requiring
decision or determination of the Zoning Inspector, or to decide in favor of an
applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass under the Zoning
Ordinance, or to effect any variation in the requirement of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (e)   The Board may call on the other officials for assistance in the
performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such officials to render
such assistance to the Board as may reasonably be required.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1349.02 APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.
   (a)   An application to the Board, in cases in which it has original
jurisdiction under the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance, may be taken by any
property owner, including a tenant, or by any governmental officer, department,
board or bureau. Such application shall be filed with the Zoning Inspector who
shall transmit the same, together with all the plans, specifications and other
papers pertaining to the application, to the Board.
   (b)   An appeal to the Board may be taken by any property owner, including a
tenant, or by any governmental officer, department, board or bureau affected by
any ruling of the Zoning Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within a
reasonable time, as prescribed by the rules of the Board, by filing with the
Zoning Inspector a notice of appeal, together with all the plans and papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (c)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an
application or of an appeal. It shall give at least ten days’ notice of the
time and place of such hearing by insertion in a daily newspaper of general
circulation in the county, and shall also give notice delivered personally or
by mail at least five days before the time fixed for such hearing to the
applicant or appellant and to the Zoning Inspector, and to the respective
owners of record of property adjoining or adjacent to the premises in question.
Any party may appear at such hearings in person or by agent or by attorney. The
Board shall decide the application or appeal within a reasonable time.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1349.03 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Zoning Inspector certifies to the Board that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by an order which may, on due cause shown, be granted by
the Board on application, after notice to the Zoning Inspector, or by judicial
proceedings.
   (a)   Powers of the Board. The Board shall have jurisdiction in matters and
shall have the specific and general powers provided in this Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   Special exceptions and interpretation of map. The Board shall have the
power to hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance, requests or applications for special exceptions or for
interpretation of the Zoning Map or for decisions upon other special questions
upon which the Board is authorized to pass.
      (1)   Special exceptions. In addition to permitting the special
exceptions heretofore specified in this Zoning Ordinance, the Board shall have
authority to permit the following:
         (a)   The substitution for a non-conforming use existing at the time
of enactment of this Zoning Ordinance, another non-conforming use, if no
structural alterations, except those required by law or ordinance are made;
provided, however, that, in any residence district, and in any business
district no change shall be permitted to any use prohibited in the industry
district;
         (b)   The temporary use of a building or premises in any district for
a purpose or use that does not conform to the regulations prescribed by this
Zoning Ordinance; provided that, such use be of a true temporary nature and
does not involve the erection of substantial buildings. Such permit shall be
granted in the form of a temporary and revocable permit for not more than a 12-
month period, subject to such conditions as will safeguard the public health,
safety, convenience and general welfare; and
         (c)   The temporary use of a building or premises in undeveloped
sections for a purpose that does not conform to the regulations prescribed by
this Zoning Ordinance; provided that, such structure or use is of a true
temporary nature, is promotive of or incidental to the development of such
undeveloped sections and does not involve the erection of substantial
buildings.
      (2)   Interpretation of map. Where the street or lot layout actually on
the ground, or as recorded, differs from the street and lot lines indicated on
the Zoning Map, the Board, after notice to the owners of the property and after
public hearing, shall interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the
intent and purposes of this Zoning Ordinance for the particular section or
district in question.
   (c)   Administrative review and variances. The Board also shall have the
power:
      (1)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, grant or refusal made by the Zoning Inspector in the enforcement of
the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance; and
      (2)   Variances. To authorize on appeal in specific cases such variance
from the terms of this Zoning Ordinance as will not be contrary to the public
interest, where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance will result in unnecessary hardship, and so
that the spirit of this Zoning Ordinance shall be observed and substantial
justice done, as follows:
         (a)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of enactment of this Zoning
Ordinance, or by reason of exceptional situation or condition of such piece of
property, or of the use or development of property immediately adjoining the
piece of property in question, the literal enforcement of the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties or exceptional and undue hardship upon the owner of such property,
unnecessary to carry out the spirit and purpose of the Zoning Ordinance, the
Board shall have the power to authorize, upon appeal, a variance from such
strict application, so as to relieve such difficulties or hardships, and so
that the spirit and purpose of the Zoning Ordinance shall be observed and
substantial justice done. In authorizing a variance, the Board may attach
thereto such conditions regarding the location, character and other feature of
the proposed building, structure or use as it may deem advisable in the
interest of the furtherance of the purposes of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (b)   No such variance in the provisions or requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance shall be authorized by the Board unless the Board finds, beyond
reasonable doubt, that all of the following conditions exist:
            1.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the property in question or to the intended use of the
property that do not apply generally to other properties or class of uses in
the same zoning district;
            2.   Such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right possessed by other properties in the same
zoning district and in the vicinity; and
            3.   The authorizing of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and will not materially impair the purposes of
the Zoning Ordinance or the public interest.
         (c)   No grant or variance shall be authorized unless the Board
specifically finds that the condition or situation of the specific piece of
property for which the variance is sought is not of so typical or recurrent a
nature as to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general
regulation, under an amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, for such conditions or
situations.
   (d)   Action of Board. In exercising its power, the Board may, in conformity
with the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8A-8-9, and of the Zoning Ordinance reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1349.04 APPLICATION FOR APPEAL OF ACTIONS OF AUTHORITIES.
   Any person aggrieved by the action or order of the Building Inspector, the
Building Commission of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the right to
appeal to the Circuit Court of Harrison County, West Virginia, for a temporary
injunction restraining the Building Inspector or Building Commission pending
final disposition of the cause as provided in W.Va. Code § 8A-9-1. In the event
such application is made, a hearing thereon shall be had within 20 days, or as
soon thereafter is possible, and the court shall enter such final order or
decree as the law and justice may require. Cost of such proceeding shall be
imposed at the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. passed 8-10-1999)
ARTICLE 1353: AMENDMENTS
Section
   
1353.01   General procedure
   
1353.02   Public hearing
   
1353.03   Notice
   
1353.04   Protest
   
1353.05   Names of owners
   
1353.06   Notification
Cross References
   Procedure, see W.Va. Code §§ 8A-7-8 et seq.
   Existing uses safeguard, see W.Va. Code § 8A-7-10
§ 1353.01 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   In accordance with the provisions of W.Va. Code § 8A-3-11, Council may from
time to time amend or change by ordinance the number, shape or area of
districts established on the Zoning Map or the regulations set forth in the
Zoning Ordinance; but no such amendment or change shall become effective unless
the ordinance proposing such amendment or change shall first be submitted to
the Planning Commission for approval, disapproval or suggestions, and the
Commission shall have been allowed a reasonable time, not less than 30 days,
for consideration and report.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1353.02 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before submitting its recommendations and report to Council the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment, supplement or
change. It shall give at least 15 days’ notice of the time and place of such
hearing by publication in an official paper or a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and by mailing notices to all property owners who, in
the opinion of the Commission, may be affected by such amendment, supplement or
change, and in accordance with such rules of procedure as it may establish.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1353.03 NOTICE.
   No amendment, supplement or change in any of the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance or in the boundaries of any of the districts established thereunder
shall become effective until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at
which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard.
At least 15 days’ notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in an official paper, or a paper of general circulation in the
county.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1353.04 PROTEST.
   In case of a protest against a proposed change in the boundaries of a
district signed by the owners of 20% or more of either the area of the lots
included in such proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent to the rear
thereof extending 100 feet therefrom or of those directly opposite thereto
extending 100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such
amendment shall not become effective, except by the favorable vote of three-
fourths of all of the members of Council.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1353.05 NAMES OF OWNERS.
   Any person desiring a change in zoning of property shall accompany the
petition for such change in zoning, or the ordinance introduced for the purpose
of changing such zoning, with a statement giving the names and addresses of the
owners of all properties lying within the block or blocks where the proposed
change is to be made within 100 feet of any part of the property proposed to be
changed.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
§ 1353.06 NOTIFICATION.
   The failure to notify, as provided by this article, shall not invalidate an
ordinance; provided, such failure was not intentional, and the omission of the
name of any owner or occupant of property who may, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, be affected by such amendment, supplement or change,
unless such omission is intentional, shall not invalidate any ordinance passed
hereunder, it being the intention of this article to provide so far as may be
for notice to the persons substantially interested in the proposed change that
an ordinance is pending before the Council, to make a change in zoning.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1978)
CHAPTER FIVE: FLOODPLAINS
ARTICLE 1378: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1378.01   Authority
   
1378.02   Intent
   
1378.03   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
1378.04   Applicability
   
1378.05   Matters not provided for specifically
   
1378.06   Interpretations and definitions
§ 1378.01 AUTHORITY.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter have been prepared with the intention
of meeting the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.), amended by the Congress of the United States through
2-15-1975 (Pub. Law No. 91-152).
   (b)   Authority to adopt, administer and enforce this chapter is vested in
the Town of Nutter Fort, pursuant to W.Va. Code §§ 8-12-14, 7-1-3n, 7-1-3v and
7-1-3kk and/or W.Va. Code §§ 8A-4-2, 8A-5-7 and 8A-7-2.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1378.02 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (a)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the Town of Nutter
Fort;
   (b)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future and protect natural
drainage;
   (c)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water supply
and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian;
   (d)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning improvement
of real property as required by W.Va. Code § 11-3-3A;
   (e)   Assure County E-911 addresses are obtained to maintain the currency of
established emergency response dispatch systems; and
   (f)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the Town of Nutter Fort, its
governmental units and its residents, by preventing the unwise design and
construction of development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1378.03 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1378.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any
development, new construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial
damage or the placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured
homes) within the Town of Nutter Fort, unless a permit application has been
completed and a permit or certificate of compliance has been obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   In addition, where land partially or fully in the special flood
hazard area is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or
subdivision or otherwise developed as defined in this chapter, a site plan with
elevation data shall be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain
Administrator prior to any development.
   (b)   Provision of all other codes, ordinances and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1378.05 MATTERS NOT PROVIDED FOR SPECIFICALLY.
   Where conditions are encountered that are not specifically provided for
herein, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine the applicability of the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with its intent, and shall require the
applicant to take appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1378.06 INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Interpretations. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
interpretations shall apply.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   The singular includes the plural.
      (3)   The plural includes the singular.
      (4)   The word “person” includes a corporation, unincorporated
association or partnership as well as an individual.
      (5)   The terms “shall” or “will” are always mandatory.
      (6)   The word “building” or “structure” shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase “or part thereof”.
      (7)   The word “ordinance” or “chapter” shall refer to the Floodplain
Ordinance.
   (b)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used
in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter it’s most
reasonable application.
      APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to the datum specified on the Town of Nutter Fort’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map. For the purposes of this chapter, the 100-year flood or 1% annual
chance flood.
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that all development is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the special flood hazard area used to balance the loss
of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed
within the special flood hazard area.
      CONTRACTOR.
         (a)   As per W.Va. Code § 21-1 l-3(c), a person who in any capacity
for compensation, other than as an employee of another, undertakes, offers to
undertake, purports to have the capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to
construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or
demolish any building, highway, road, railroad, structure or excavation
associated with a project, development or improvement, or to do any part
thereof, including the erection of scaffolding or other structures or works in
connection therewith, where the cost of the undertaking is $1,000 or more.
CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who performs management and
counseling services on a construction project for a professional fee.
         (b)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
            1.   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
            2.   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
            3.   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and
who functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board,
whose primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management
and maintenance, who, acting in his or her respective professional capacity,
and any employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or her
employment, performs any work which may be considered to be performing
contracting work;
            4.   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of
section seven, article 16-a, chapter 19 of this code to engage in the
application of pesticides for hire, unless the operator also performs
structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property treated for insect pests; or
            5.   A corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship whose
primary purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
contractors defined in this section and who employs full time a registered
architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered professional
engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR also does not include
employees of such corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship.
      CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which, even a slight chance of
flooding is too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals,
fire stations, police stations, storage of critical records and similar
facilities. These should be given special consideration when formulating
regulatory alternatives and floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY
should not be located in a special flood hazard area if at all possible. If a
critical facility must be located in a special flood hazard area it should be
provided a higher level of protection so that it can continue to function and
provide services during a flood.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to the Town of Nutter Fort. A FIRM that
has been made available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP
(DFIRM).
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information and water
surface elevations.
      FLOODPLAIN.
         (a)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
         (b)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff
of surface waters from any source.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing
the water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
      FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream crossings
and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed. FREEBOARD also tends
to lower the cost of flood insurance.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the development or structure foundation. This
is primarily used during insurance rating in approximated floodplains.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in West Virginia, as set forth in the West Virginia State
Code.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME RETAILER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the State of West Virginia, as set forth in the West
Virginia State Code.
      LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the West Virginia
State Board of Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land
surveying as defined in West Virginia State Code.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the proposed development or structure
foundation. The primary use of the LAG is to determine whether the structure is
located within a special flood hazard area by comparing it to the base flood
elevation.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood resistant materials,
as defined in FEMA Technical Bulletin No. 2, and usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such enclosure has
proper flood openings and is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction, as
herein defined, commenced on or after 9-17-1980 and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Any construction started after effective date
of the Town of Nutter Fort’s first floodplain ordinance adopted by the Town of
Nutter Fort and before the effective start date of this floodplain management
ordinance is subject to the ordinance in effect at the time the ordinance was
issued; provided, the start of construction was within 180 days of permit
issuance.
      ONE-HUNDRED- (100-) YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a
1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
      PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
      PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
         (a)   Any service or creative work, as described in W.Va. Code Art.
13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering education, training
and experience in the application of special knowledge of the mathematical,
physical and engineering sciences to such services or creative work as
consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning and design of engineering
works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of advanced
engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the review of
construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance and operation of engineered
projects.
         (b)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W.Va. Code Art. 13
or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who performs any
engineering service or work or any other service designated by the practitioner
which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or offer to
practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W.Va. Code Art. 13.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of
a structure, less land value, is above ground.
      REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, water should not
damage structures and any subsurface waters related to the base flood should
not damage existing or proposed structures.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered
or licensed as a registered professional engineer by the West Virginia State
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers, as required under W.Va. Code
Art. 13 et seq.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Flood Insurance
Studies and on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30 and A99.
This term shall also include areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are
specifically listed or otherwise described in this chapter.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond initial excavation, or the placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a permit must be obtained
prior to beginning, permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For an alteration, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
      STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The West Virginia Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management.
      STREAM. As defined in W.Va. Code 7-1-3u, any watercourse, whether natural
or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds
25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
         (a)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement;
         (b)   This term includes structures, which have incurred “substantial
damage”, as defined herein, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
         (c)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that
would constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, as defined above, must comply with
all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         (d)   For the purpose of this definition, IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
      TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of
a stream indicate the top of bank. In the field a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF BANK. When a professional is
not employed, the TOP OF THE BANK may be considered to be the top of the first
significant slope landward of the waters edge when it is followed by at least
50 feet of relatively flat land.
      VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully
compliant with all the requirements of this chapter. Any structure or other
development lacking the certifications, finished construction elevation
certificate or other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is
presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
ARTICLE 1380: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
1380.01   Identification
   
1380.02   Descriptions of special flood hazard areas
   
1380.03   Changes in designation of area
   
1380.04   Boundary disputes
   
1380.05   Elevations prevail
   
1380.06   Utilization of special flood hazard area
§ 1380.01 IDENTIFICATION.
   (a)   The identified special flood hazard area shall be those areas of the
Town of Nutter Fort which are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) prepared for the Town of Nutter Fort by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) dated 10-2-2012 or the most recent revision thereof including all
digital data developed as part of the FIS.
   (b)   The identified special flood hazard area shall also be those special
flood hazard areas identified by the Town of Nutter Fort by use of historic or
other technical data and shown on an officially recognized “Local Flood Hazards
Map”. These areas shall be designated as appropriate with the level of
technical data described below and shall be managed accordingly.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1380.02 DESCRIPTIONS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The identified special flood hazard area shall consist of the following four
specific areas.
   (a)   The FLOODWAY shall be those areas of AE Zone identified as floodways
in the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include any floodway
areas delineated by developers in the approximated floodplain and designated as
such by the community.
   (b)   The FLOODWAY FRINGE shall be those areas of AE zone for which specific
100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS, but which lie beyond
the floodway area.
   (c)   The AE AREA WITHOUT FLOODWAY shall be those areas identified as an AE
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year flood
elevations have been provided, but no floodway has been delineated.
   (d)   The APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1380.03 CHANGES IN DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   (a)   The delineation of the identified special flood hazard area may be
revised by the Town of Nutter Fort where natural or human-made changes have
occurred and/or more detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, a River Basin Commission or other qualified agency or
individual document the necessity for such changes. However, prior to any such
change, approval must be obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   (b)   A Town of Nutter Fort’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable but, not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, the Town of Nutter Fort shall notify the NFIP Administrator
of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data.
   (c)   The Town of Nutter Fort may identify and regulate new local flood
hazard or ponding areas. These areas may be delineated on a “local flood hazard
map” using best available topographic data and locally derived information such
as flood of record, historic high water marks or approximate study
methodologies.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1380.04 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning the location of proposed development relative to
a special flood hazard area arise, an initial determination shall be made by
the Floodplain Administrator and any party aggrieved by this decision may
appeal to the Town of Nutter Fort. The burden of proof shall be on the
appellant/applicant.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1380.05 ELEVATIONS PREVAIL.
   Elevation data certified by a licensed professional surveyor or registered
professional engineer shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (a)   The proposed development will automatically conform to the flood
damage reduction requirements of this chapter if the natural lowest adjacent
grade (LAG) to the proposed development is at or above the closest applicable
base flood elevation (BFE) specified in the flood insurance study. The
applicant shall be advised to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA to have the special flood hazard area designation removed from the
structure or specific area. If the difference between LAG and BFE is modest,
the applicant will also be advised to use caution during site preparation or
excavation and information concerning the preferred risk policy should be
provided.
   (b)   (1)   The proposed development shall be considered to be within the
special flood hazard area if the natural LAG to the proposed development is
below either:
         (a)   The closest applicable BFE specified in the flood insurance
study; or
         (b)   The reasonably safe from flooding elevation determined by the
Town of Nutter Fort in approximate floodplains.
      (2)   The proposed development shall then be required to conform to all
appropriate flood damage reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1380.06 UTILIZATION OF THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (a)   Floodway.
      (1)   Within any floodway area, no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements or other development shall be permitted
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the Town
of Nutter Fort during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The resultant
engineering study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the
responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In
addition, studies, analyses, computations and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (2)   Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property
due to their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters the floodway shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
         (a)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below,
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued.
         (b)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative, the
applicant shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum
necessary to accomplish the project.
         (c)   All permitted uses, activities and development shall be
undertaken in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions
contained herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and
regulations.
         (d)   In special flood hazard areas for which no regulatory floodway
has been designated, the regulatory floodway for small, single lot development
not incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the
Town of Nutter Fort, be determined to be the channel of the stream and the
adjacent land areas to a distance of one-half the width of the special flood
hazard area as measured from the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland
limit of the 1% annual chance special flood hazard area boundary.
   (b)   Floodway fringe. Within any floodway fringe area any development and/
or use of land shall be permitted; provided that, all such uses, activities
and/or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the flood-
proofing and related provisions contained herein and in all other applicable
codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (c)   AE without floodway. Within any AE without floodway area, no new
construction or development shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the elevation of the
100-year flood more than one foot at any point. This requirement can be
satisfied by utilization of the floodway where determined.
   (d)   Approximated floodplain (Zone A).
      (1)   Within any approximated floodplain:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
         (b)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed, all
proposed development to determine:
            1.   The amount being invested; and
            2.   The specific flood risk at the site. The Floodplain
Administrator shall then require the applicant to determine the elevation above
which the development will be reasonably safe from flooding using elevation
data, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses or other techniques. When hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a
registered professional engineer who shall certify that the methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study
shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing
a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (c)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted; provided
that, all such uses, activities and/or development shall be undertaken in
strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained
herein and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
      (2)   See appendix 4.4 for sample approximated floodplain (Zone A)
techniques.
   (e)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (1)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within
the special flood hazard area the developer shall notify in writing, by
certified mail, the Town of Nutter Fort, The Floodplain Administrator, the
State Coordinating Office, any adjacent communities and any adjacent property
owners of all such intended activities prior to the alteration or relocation of
the stream. Copies of all required notifications must be submitted to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In addition prior to issuing the
local permit the Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval. See appendix 4.5 for sample stream alteration process and
contact sheet.
      (2)   The developer shall also assure the Town of Nutter Fort in writing
that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the
stream will be maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the
applicant to demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of stream will
provide equal or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken
by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study
shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing
a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of culverts, bridges or
other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of
certain “best practice” techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts or
stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream crossings and localized
flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may include, but are not limited
to, wing walls, trash grates or requiring openings to be of sufficient size to
pass debris and/or anticipated future increases in flood heights.
      (4)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts and other stream
crossings shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this
chapter.
      (5)   The developer is required to provide the Town of Nutter Fort a
legal agreement detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be
performed on altered or relocated watercourses including culverts, bridges and
other stream crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
transfer this agreement to the new owner when the land associated with the
watercourse alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and
provide a signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the
violator to the penalties set forth in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
      (6)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the Flood
Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
ARTICLE 1382: BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL
Section
   
1382.01   Generally
   
1382.02   Basic format
   
1382.03   Elevation and flood-proofing information
   
1382.04   Site plan criteria
   
1382.05   Subdivision of land in special flood hazard areas; restrictions
   
1382.06   Design and construction standards
§ 1382.01 GENERALLY.
   Permits are required in order to determine whether all new construction or
substantial improvements are:
   (a)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway or other special flood
hazard area;
   (b)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (c)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2 or the most recent revision
thereof;
   (d)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (e)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
   (f)   To comply with W.Va. Code § 11-3-3a., concerning the County Assessor’s
building or real property improvement notice; and
   (g)   Approved by County Health Department for Water and Sewer to assure
facilities are designed or located in compliance with the flood damage
reduction requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1382.02 BASIC FORMAT.
   The basic format of the permit shall include the following:
   (a)   Name and address of applicant;
   (b)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed development is to
occur;
   (c)   Names, addresses and valid West Virginia license numbers of all
contractors working at the building site, or affidavits stating that work is
being performed by individuals exempt from contractor licensing as set forth in
W.Va. Code Title 28, Series 2, § 3.9(b) or the most recent revision thereof;
   (d)   A description of site location sufficient to locate the project,
including tax map and parcel number and most recent deed book and page number;
   (e)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
   (f)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
1384.10 of this chapter;
   (g)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow authorized
representatives of floodplain management programs access to the development to
inspect for compliance; and
   (h)   The contract required by W.Va. Code Title 28, Series 4, and all
addendums to the contract(s) shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator
for review within five business days of contract signing. The Town of Nutter
Fort does not require and will not keep copies of the contracts or addendums.
Failure to present contract or addendums for review shall void the permit. If a
licensed contractor is not involved, or the work is of an aggregate value of
less than $10,000, including materials and labor, a brief written description
of proposed work and the estimated value will suffice.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1382.03 ELEVATION AND FLOOD-PROOFING INFORMATION.
   (a)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation
requirements contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered
significantly by increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the
freeboard height required by this chapter.
   (b)   Depending on the type of structure involved, the following information
shall also be included in the application for work within the special flood
hazard area:
      (1)   For structures to be elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation:
         (a)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         (c)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
         (d)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         (e)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         (f)   A finished construction elevation certificate shall be prepared
by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualifications.
The elevation certificate shall confirm that the structure in question,
together with attendant utilities is elevated in compliance with permit
conditions; and
         (g)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the Town of Nutter Fort determines that the area below the first floor
could be converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed areas
below base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement
shall state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non- conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
      (2)   For structures to be flood-proofed to two feet above the base flood
elevation (non-residential structures only), all applicants are encouraged to
exceed the minimum flood-proofing requirements contained herein. Flood
insurance rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of flood-
proofing above the height required by this chapter. In order to obtain an
“elevation credited” flood insurance rate on dry flood-proofed buildings,
flood-proofing must extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   Plans showing details of all flood-proofing measures, prepared
by a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed
structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing
ground, proposed finished ground, lowest floor and flood-proofing limits;
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor; and
         (c)   A flood-proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the
plans in subsection (b)(2)(a) above, stating that the finished structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities is designed so that:
            1.   The structure is water-tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (3)   For appurtenant structures constructed of flood-resistant materials
used solely for parking of vehicles or limited storage (appurtenant structures
only):
         (a)   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or
others of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground,
proposed finished ground and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of
proposed flood-resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the
floodway boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present
on the site;
         (b)   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must
be prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. The elevation certificate confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities is designed so that:
            1.   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2 are used in the construction of the structure from the lowest
structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation and that all
utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation;
            2.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this
requirement shall either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               a.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided;
               b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
               c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
         (c)   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement to
any new owner at closing via notarized signature. A signed copy of the
transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to
the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set
forth in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1382.04 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   (a)   Site plans are required for all development, new construction and
substantial improvements determined to be located in a special flood hazard
area and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home parks. These proposals
shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to assure that they are
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (b)   The owner or developer shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information:
      (1)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to special flood hazard areas, proposed lot sites and
fills;
      (2)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
      (3)   Where the subdivision or manufactured home park lie partially or
completely in the special flood hazard areas, the plan map shall include
detailed information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads,
public utilities and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas. A registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor shall certify the site
plan;
      (4)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the approximated
floodplain and which are greater than ten lots or two acres, whichever is the
lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and shall delineate a floodway
when directed to do so by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (a)   When a Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study shall be used to substantiate the base flood.
         (b)   If a FEMA Flood Insurance Study is not available the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service or
State and Local Water Resource Department.
         (c)   If the required data is not available from other sources the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a Flood Insurance Study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
      (5)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially in
the special flood hazard area and all proposed development including fill will
take place on natural grade a significant vertical distance above the
approximated floodplain area (Zone A) boundary depicted on the map, development
of detailed base flood elevation data may not be necessary. In these cases, the
site plan for the proposed development must show contours at intervals of two
or five feet, depending on the slope, and clearly delineate the area to be
developed and the location of the special flood hazard boundary area as scaled
from the FEMA map. A registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor shall certify the site plan.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1382.05 SUBDIVISION OF LAND IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS; RESTRICTIONS.
   Subdivision of land in the special flood hazard area shall result in lots
that include a buildable portion outside of the special flood hazard area and
be served by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not lower
than one foot below the elevation of the line defining the special flood hazard
area limits. All new structures shall be sited on the portion of the subdivided
lot that is located outside of the special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1382.06 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction and to
construction of substantial improvements and the repair of substantial damage
to existing structures occurring in the special flood hazard area.
   (a)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for
meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
      (4)   Non-conversion agreement. A non-conversion agreement shall be
signed by the applicant on all flood-proofed structures and any elevated
structures when the Town of Nutter Fort determines that the area below the
first floor could be converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to
enclosed areas below base flood elevation that are five feet high or more).
This agreement shall state:
         (a)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via
notarized signature, a copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
   (b)   Manufactured home placement. Certain unique characteristics of
manufactured homes installed in special flood hazard areas pose an elevated
risk to safety and substantial damage to property. Therefore:
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the special flood hazard
areas of Town of Nutter Fort shall be installed by a contractor possessing a
valid West Virginia manufactured home installer’s license. The licensed
manufactured home installer shall use an installation design engineered to
withstand flood hazards specific to the particular home site. Manufactured
homes to be placed or substantially improved within the special flood hazard
areas shall be installed in accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   The lowest floor, ductwork and utilities including HVAC/heat
pump shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent
foundation, or shall use foundation elements of at least equivalent strength
engineered for use in a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating
dry stacked block piers shall not be used in special flood hazard areas;
         (c)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of
W.Va. Code 42, Series 19, §§ 10.1, 10.2 and 10b as authorized by W.Va. Code §
21-9-4 or the most recent revisions thereof. The anchoring shall be adequate to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to the over-the-top and frame ties, attached to
permanent foundation elements. Ground anchors may not be adequate to satisfy
flood specific anchoring requirements. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (d)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and/or perimeter wall skirts
of brick or block shall have openings to prevent collapse and damage to
supporting piers. The openings shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces by allowing for entry and exit of flood waters.
Designs for meeting this requirement shall either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
         (e)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (2)   The licensed West Virginia manufactured home installer placing the
unit shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the
manufactured home has been installed to the standards set forth in this
chapter.
   (c)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (c)(2) below, appurtenant
structures shall be located out of the special flood hazard area or elevated to
two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply.
         (a)   Use of the structure shall be restricted to parking or limited
storage.
         (b)   Structures shall be no more than 200 square feet in size and
valued at less than $5,000.
         (c)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
         (d)   Structures shall be located, oriented and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
         (e)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
         (f)   Flood resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin
2 shall be used in the portions of the structure below BFE.
         (g)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
         (h)   The venting requirements contained in subsection (a) above are
applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant stating
that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or attached garage shall
not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that the structure may be
subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood insurance premiums may be
possible, and that a change in use may require full compliance with this
chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence of
this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature, a copy of all
new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to
transfer the agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain
Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
   (d)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (e)   Fill. The Town of Nutter Fort officially recognizes the beneficial
functions the floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during
floods. Therefore:
      (1)   Placement of fill in the special flood hazard area is discouraged
and should be minimized;
      (2)   No fill shall be permitted in the floodway;
      (3)   Placement of fill in other areas of the special flood hazard area
shall be restricted to functional purposes such as elevating a structure. Fill
shall only be permitted in the same permit with the related structure or other
functional purpose. Placement of fill to dispose of spoil from excavation or to
elevate yards, parking lots or fields will not generally be considered a
functional purpose. The Floodplain Administrator may require the developer to
provide compensatory storage before permitting fill;
      (4)   No fill shall be permitted unless it meets the requirements of
subsection (a) above. All fill placed in the special flood hazard area shall
meet or exceed the following standards.
         (a)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The Town of Nutter Fort may require the
applicant to demonstrate through engineering reports that proposed fill would
not adversely affect adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses shall be undertaken only by registered professional
engineers who shall certify that the technical methods used correctly reflect
currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study shall include a
cover letter, signed and seated by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Town of Nutter Fort. During permit review, the
Town of Nutter Fort shall consider the following issues that have the potential
to cause adverse impact to adjacent properties:
            1.   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
            2.   Blocking drainage from adjacent property;
            3.   Deflection of flood waters onto adjacent existing structures;
            4.   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating
erosion problems; and
            5.   Other unique site conditions may be considered when
determining whether fill will cause adverse impact to adjacent property
including, but not limited to, subsidence areas, Karst topography, stream
blockages and steep topography adjacent to the channel.
         (b)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or system.
         (c)   Filled site shall be contoured to drain properly (avoid
ponding).
         (d)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance
to provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in following subsection (e)(4)(e) below. For non-residential
structures, fill shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use.
At grade access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the building line
shall be provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a nonresidential
structure.
         (e)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on
site.
         (f)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary
stability and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling. Fill compaction
standards shall be appropriate to proposed post fill use, particular attention
is necessary when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
         (g)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
         (h)   Fill site and fill shall be protected from erosion.
            1.   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less will be
protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
            2.   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second
will be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
         (i)   All applicants placing fill in a special flood hazard area shall
obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) from FEMA when directed to
do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After fill
is finished, the applicant shall convert the CLOMR to a Letter of Map Revision
based on Fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance can be issued.
         (j)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the Flood Insurance Study and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps, when notified by
the Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs assessed by
FEMA for this purpose.
   (f)   Placement of structures and other development. All structures and
other development shall be constructed or placed on the lot so as to offer the
minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to have a
minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height of flood water.
      (1)   Whenever possible, structures and other development shall be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow;
and
      (2)   So far as practicable, structures and other development shall be
placed approximately on the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining
structures or development.
   (g)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All structures and other development including stream crossings
shall be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to
prevent flotation, collapse and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to
life and property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge
openings and other restricted sections of the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, swimming pools and storage tanks
located at or below the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist
flotation.
   (h)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank or 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses. To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall
be maintained in this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the
watercourse and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be
given to planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks, enhance
flood protection and benefit aquatic resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this subsection (h).
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area. The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary
and shall be made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting
standards, such as side, front and back lot line setbacks.
   (i)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
      (3)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this article, material that resembles “fill” material
shall not be considered “storage” material for purposes of this subsection (i).
   (j)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public and/or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (k)   Drainage.
      (1)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazard.
      (2)   Adequate drainage paths are required around structures on slopes
within Zones AH and AO to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (l)   Backflow preventers. Back flow prevention valves should be used for
all enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
ARTICLE 1384: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
1384.01   Floodplain Administrator
   
1384.02   Development permits and site plan approvals
   
1384.03   Approval of permits and plans
   
1384.04   Application procedures
   
1384.05   Changes
   
1384.06   Permit placards
   
1384.07   Start of construction
   
1384.08   Inspections, stop-work orders, violation notices and revocations
   
1384.09   Certificate of compliance
   
1384.10   Fees
   
1384.11   Appeals
   
1384.12   Penalty
   
1384.13   Government actions
§ 1384.01 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Code Enforcement Supervisor is hereby appointed as Floodplain
Administrator and is vested with the responsibility, authority and means to
implement the commitments made in our agreement with the Federal Government to
administer and implement this local law by granting or denying floodplain
development permits in accordance with its provisions. The Floodplain
Administrator shall also be responsible for submitting all required reports to
FEMA concerning the Town of Nutter Fort’s participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.02 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND SITE PLAN APPROVALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new
construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial damage, the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
Town of Nutter Fort, unless a permit application and standard site plan has
been completed and a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. In addition, where land that is either partially or fully in the
special flood hazard area is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home
park or subdivision or otherwise developed, a detailed site plan shall be
submitted to and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any
development.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.03 APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND PLANS.
   (a)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (b)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (c)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W.Va. Code § 21-11-10.
   (d)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit,
shall require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is
duly licensed as a contractor under the provisions of West Virginia State Code.
      (2)   If the applicant is not licensed a written affidavit that such
person is not subject to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor, as defined
in W.Va. § 21-11-3, shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
placed in the permit file.
   (e)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
   (f)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W.Va. Code § 11-3-3A.
   (g)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits for
new structures to the County E-911 Addressing Coordinator.
   (h)   The County E-911 Addressing Coordinator shall provide a copy of all
requests for addresses for new structures to the County Floodplain
Administrator.
   (i)   The Town of Nutter Fort shall provide sufficient space to allow the
Floodplain Administrator to keep on file in perpetuity, in a location safe from
natural hazards, all information collected during the course of the
administration of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for a permit and/or site plan approvals shall be made, in
writing, on the forms supplied by the Town of Nutter Fort, and shall include
all information stipulated under §§
1382.01 through
1382.05 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.05 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans, specification or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.06 PERMIT PLACARDS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit placard, which shall be
prominently displayed on the premises during the time construction is in
progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit, the date of its
issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.07 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Work on the proposed development shall begin within 180 days after the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All work on
the proposed development shall be completed within 18 months of permit
issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time extension is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time
extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
   (b)   When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following criteria:
      (1)   Has the developer diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months?
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health or welfare or injurious to other property?
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.08 INSPECTIONS, STOP-WORK ORDERS, VIOLATION NOTICES AND REVOCATIONS.
   (a)   Inspections.
      (1)   Upon learning of a potential violation of this chapter, the
Floodplain Administrator or staff shall investigate to determine whether a
violation has occurred.
      (2)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized official may
inspect any development covered by this or previous ordinance to determine
whether any portion of the development has been altered to be in non-compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   Stop-work orders. The Floodplain Administrator shall immediately
issue, or cause to be issued, a stop-work order for any development found
ongoing without having obtained a floodplain determination or a permit.
Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to the penalties
described in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
   (c)   Violation notice and revocations. When it appears after investigation
that a permitted development is non-compliant with the provisions of this law
and/or the conditions of the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify
the violator by means of written violation notice. The violation notice shall
specify the nature of the violation and request that the violation be corrected
within 15 days from the date appearing on the notice. Failure to correct the
violation within this time period shall be cause for revocation of the permit
and the governing body, or authorized employee or agent to:
      (1)   Seek an injunction in the Circuit Court of Harrison County to
restrain the violator from continuing the violation, including, but not limited
to, requests for the removal of structures or land uses from the property
involved; and
      (2)   Seek a misdemeanor conviction in magistrate court or circuit court.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.09 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to permit
the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted or wholly or partly
altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance
has been issued by the Local Floodplain Administrator stating that the building
or land conforms to the requirements of this local law. Occupying or using a
building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
   (b)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to inspect and approve
a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt until the inspector is
in possession of a copy of the certificate of compliance issued by the Local
Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular development being
inspected conforms to the requirements of this local law. Inspection and
approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
   (c)   In areas of flood hazard, it shall be unlawful to install a permanent
utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, installed or rebuilt until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the Local Floodplain Administrator stating that
the development conforms to the requirements of this local law. Installation of
utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
1384.12 of this chapter.
   (d)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the Local Administrator
upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of special flood
hazard.
   (e)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood-proofing
certificate or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.10 FEES.
   (a)   A floodplain determination fee shall be assessed on all proposed
development. This shall be a flat fee approved by the Town of Nutter Fort.
   (b)   Proposed development determined to be occurring in a special flood
hazard area regulated by this chapter shall be assessed an additional fee,
payable to the Town of Nutter Fort based upon a set schedule approved by the
Town of Nutter Fort using the estimated value of the proposed construction as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (c)   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the
Town of Nutter Fort for any additional costs for services necessary for review
and/or inspection of proposed development. Services include, but are not
limited to, professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain
Administrator may require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional
costs may include reimbursement for contracted services.
   (d)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which a
permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit the fees above specified shall be doubled. The additional
fee is intended to partially reimburse the county for the additional cost of
processing permits for work already underway. To more fully recover this cost,
the fees above shall be tripled for every subsequent occurrence by the same
person. Payment of the increased fee shall not relieve any person from
complying fully with the requirements of this chapter in the execution of the
work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.11 APPEALS.
   (a)   General. Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the
Floodplain Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is
the right of that person to appeal to the Town Council of the Town of Nutter
Fort which shall be known as the Appeals Board. Such appeal shall be filed with
the Town Council of the Town of Nutter Fort, in writing, within 30 days after
notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Appeals Board
shall set a time and place not less than ten, nor more than 60, days for the
purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the hearing
shall be given to all parties at which time they may appear and be heard. The
determination by the Appeals Board shall be final in all cases.
   (b)   Appeal review criteria.
      (1)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative
substantial damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement or the
freeboard requirements may be handled at the discretion of the Appeals Board.
      (2)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter
shall adhere to the following criteria:
         (a)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the Appeals Board
upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the appeal would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of an appeal will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing locals laws or ordinance.
         (b)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal.
         (c)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
         (d)   The Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a Town of Nutter Fort official that the issuance of a decision to
allow construction of a structure below the base flood elevation will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance and such construction below the
base flood elevation increases risk to life and property. Such notifications
shall be maintained with a record of all decisions as required in this
subsection (b)(2)(d); and
         (e)   The Appeals Board shall:
            1.   Maintain a record of all decisions including justification for
their issuance; and
            2.   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
         (f)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any
construction, development, use or activity within any floodway area that would
cause any increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.12 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator, or any
other authorized employee of the Town of Nutter Fort, shall be unlawful and
shall be referred to the prosecuting attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute
all such violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the Town
of Nutter Fort of not less than $50 or more than $500, plus cost of
prosecution. In default of such payment, such person shall be imprisoned for a
period not to exceed ten days. Each day during which any violation of this
chapter continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above
penalties, all other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity
for the proper enforcement of this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty
for any violation of, or non-compliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the
violation or non-compliance with the chapter or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or non-
compliance within a reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed,
enlarged, altered or relocated in non-compliance with this chapter may be
declared by the Town Council of the Town of Nutter Fort to be a public nuisance
and abatable as such.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
§ 1384.13 GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
   (a)   Jurisdictional boundary changes.
      (1)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets or exceeds the requirements for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified flood
hazards.
      (3)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the special flood hazard
area boundaries, base flood elevation and location of floodway where
determined.
      (4)   In accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(9)(v), subpart (B), all
NFIP participating communities will notify the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the State Coordinating Office in writing whenever the
boundaries of the Town of Nutter Fort have been modified by annexation or the
Town of Nutter Fort has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt
and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In order
that all Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent the Town of Nutter
Fort’s boundaries, a copy of a map of the Town of Nutter Fort suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the Town of Nutter Fort has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority shall be included with the notification.
   (b)   Permits for government entities. Unless specifically exempted by law,
all public utilities and municipal, county, state and federal entities are
required to comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary permits. Any
entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this chapter shall
provide a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption. In
addition, the entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of all relevant
legal documentation demonstrating the exemption.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2012)
CHAPTER SEVEN: HAZARD MITIGATION
ARTICLE 1391: COUNTY HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN
Section
   
1391.01   Adoption of county plan
§ 1391.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY PLAN.
   The Nutter Fort Town Council that the Town of Nutter Fort hereby adopts the
Harrison County Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. passed 2-28-2006)
PART FIFTEEN: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
ARTICLE 1511: SMOKE DETECTORS
Section
   
1511.01   Where required
   
1511.02   Enforcement provisions
 
   
1511.99   Penalty
§ 1511.01 WHERE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Each new and existing structure used for multiple-family or unrelated
person’s occupancy shall have installed in each living unit therein an approved
fire detection product of combustion system. Such smoke detectors shall be
capable of sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a
suitable audible alarm thereof. They shall be installed by 7-1-1983, in the
manner hereinafter provided. Failure to install smoke detectors in and where
required by such date will subject property owners to penalties set forth in §
1511.99 of this article.
   (b)   Each new and existing public building, used for the assembly of the
public, either in dining, recreation, entertainment or any building used to
assemble the public not herein specified, shall have installed therein an
approved fire detection product of a combustion system. Such smoke detectors
shall be capable of sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and
providing a suitable audible alarm thereof. They shall be installed by 7-1-
1983, in the manner hereinafter provided. Failure to install smoke detectors in
and where required by such date will subject property owners to penalties set
forth in §
1511.99 of this article.
   (c)   Upon remodeling any single dwelling or the construction of a new
single dwelling, where there is any change in the interior design of the
dwelling the owner shall have caused to be placed therein an approved fire
detection product of the combustion system. The smoke detectors shall be
capable of sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a
suitable audible alarm thereof, in the manner hereinafter provided. Failure to
install smoke detectors in and where required by said construction will subject
the property owner to penalties set forth in §
1511.99 of this article.
   (d)   Installation and location of the detectors shall conform to NFPA
Standards and Specifications Number 74 of the National Fire Codes, 1979.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1982)
§ 1511.02 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Provisions of this article shall be enforced by the Mayor, upon
complaint of the Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized agents.
   (b)   Penalties for violating any of the provisions of this article shall
conform to the penalties set forth in §
1511.99 of this article.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1982)
§ 1511.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or corporation, or responsible officer thereof, violating any of
the provisions of this article shall, for each violation, upon conviction
thereof, pay a penalty of not less than $20, nor more than $200, or by
imprisonment for not less than one day, nor more than 30 days, or by both fine
and imprisonment, together with cost assessed by the Mayor. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-14-1982)
ARTICLE 1521: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
1521.01   Prohibitions
   
1521.02   Permitted fires
   
1521.03   Burning times
   
1521.04   Exceptions
   
1521.05   Safety strip
   
1521.06   Burning permit
   
1521.07   Open burning without a permit
   
1521.08   Burning conducted by the Fire Department
 
   
1521.99   Penalty
Cross References
   Authority of local fire department, see W.Va. Code Art. 29-3A
   Authority to regulate danger by fire, see W.Va. Code § 8-12-5(15)
§ 1521.01 PROHIBITIONS.
   The burning of the following is prohibited: household garbage; paper;
litter; cans; refuse; and other solid waste.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.02 PERMITTED FIRES.
   The following may be burned: leaves; grass; weeds; brush; stubble; slash;
and other vegetative debris.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.03 BURNING TIMES.
   (a)   Open burning is prohibited between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m., prevailing time.
   (b)   Burning must be conducted between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Small cooking fires or charcoal and gas grills shall be an exception to
this.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.05 SAFETY STRIP.
   All outdoor burning must have an adequate safety strip not less than ten
feet wide from which all inflammable material has been removed. If the burning
is to be conducted near any structure, the safe distance is to be determined by
the Fire Chief or a person designated by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.06 BURNING PERMIT.
   Open burning may be conducted by obtaining a permit from the Town of Nutter
Fort. Permits must be approved by the Fire Chief or a person designated by the
Fire Chief to inspect and issue burning permits. There will be a four-week
period each calendar year during which open burning will be allowed without
obtaining a permit.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.07 OPEN BURNING WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   A two-week period during the fall and a two-week period during the spring
will be declared open burning season. Burning must be conducted between the
hours previously stated in this article. Fall open burning will be the last two
weeks in September and spring open burning will be the first two weeks in
March.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.08 BURNING CONDUCTED BY THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Burning may be conducted by the Nutter Fort Fire Department only if the
proper permits are obtained on a state and county level. The Fire Chief may
allow burning to be conducted other than during the designated hours if the
Fire Department is to conduct and directly supervise the burning.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
§ 1521.99 PENALTY.
   A penalty of up to $300 for violation of these provisions, plus payment of
court costs and fire suppression costs may be assessed if open burning is
conducted in violation of this article. Actual fire suppression costs may also
be assessed if the fire escapes beyond the designated safety strip.
(Ord. 1990-04, passed 5-22-1990)
ARTICLE 1525: FIRE SERVICE FEES WITHIN FIRST DUE AREA
Section
   
1525.01   Legislative purpose; maintenance
   
1525.02   Definitions
   
1525.03   Administration
   
1525.04   Rates; fees; charges established
   
1525.05   Billing and collection of fees
   
1525.06   Charge or fee debt due town
   
1525.07   Assessment—Rules and regulations generally
   
1525.08   Charges are responsibility of property owner; owner’s responsibility
   
1525.09   Protests
   
1525.10   Fire Service Fee Appeals Board
   
1525.11   Exemptions
   
1525.12   Restricted use of revenues—Future rates and charges
 
   
1525.99   Penalty
§ 1525.01 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE; MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Fire protection service shall be continued, maintained and improved by
the town, in part, at the charge and expense of the owners of the buildings and
structures of every kind and nature located within the Fire Service District
(First Due Area) of the Nutter Fort Fire Department as designated by the West
Virginia State Fire Commission and West Virginia State Fire Marshal, which
owners are declared to be users and beneficiaries of fire services as
contemplated by W.Va. Code § 8-13-13.
   (b)   The charges and expenses with respect to each of such users as set out
in this article shall be based and imposed, in part, upon recognition of the
following legislative findings:
      (1)   The size of a non-residential structure, as reflected by the total
square feet, is a factor which affects the cost of providing fire protection
and, therefore, the fees imposed hereunder are related in part to the size of
the building.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the meaning
respectively designated unless it is clear from the context that a different
meaning is intended.
   DUAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. Any structure or unit which is used or
intended by the nature of its construction to be used as a two (separate)
family dwelling by persons for living or sleeping quarters, and having only two
units within such structure, but shall not include unit structures intended
primarily for transient lodging, including without limitation, hotels, motels,
rest homes and hospital rooms. Such structure shall include but not be limited
to duplexes.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Town of Nutter Fort’s Fire Chief.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Nutter Fort.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. A residential unit structure
having more than two family dwellings or units within such structure. Such
structure shall include but not be limited to apartment buildings,
condominiums, townhouses or boarding houses. Such structure shall exclude
hotels, motels, tourist homes, and the like.
   NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. All other buildings not included within the
definitions of “residential unit structure”. Such structures shall include, but
not be limited to all commercial establishments, schools, government buildings,
and the like. If a structure has multiple uses such as residential and
commercial, it will be classified as a NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT.
   NUTTER FORT FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Department of the Town of Nutter Fort
and all firefighters serving as volunteers within the Department.
   OWNER. The owner of record of any tract or parcel of real estate, as
reflected by the records maintained in the office of the Clerk of the County
Commission of Harrison County, West Virginia but may also include the grantee
or transferee of any interest in any real estate by unrecorded deed, or by an
owner-financed sale evidenced by written agreement, such as a “land contract”,
provided that the parties to any such transaction are required to notify the
Treasurer as to which party to any such transaction shall be the responsible to
pay any fire service fees due and payable pursuant to this article.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. Any structure or unit which is used or intended
by the nature of its construction to be used as a single-family dwelling by
persons for living or sleeping quarters, but shall not include unit structures
intended primarily for transient lodging, including without limitation, hotels,
motels, rest homes and hospital rooms.
   TOTAL SQUARE FEET. That sum as measured by the exterior dimensions of each
structure on a lot multiplied by the number of stories, also including enclosed
porches, finished basements, garden centers, finished attics, detached garages,
utility buildings and car washes with roofs. The following shall  not be
included in the calculation of total square footage: canopies for banks,
hotels, gas stations and retail stores.
   TREASURER. The Town of Nutter Fort’s Treasurer.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   The Treasurer or his or her duly authorized representative is hereby
empowered to make such rules and regulations not in conflict with the
provisions of this article relative to the offering and providing of fire
protection services as are necessary to protect the property or the safety or
health of the public, and no persons shall fail to comply with any such rule
and regulation so promulgated.
   (b)   The Treasurer shall administer all sections of this article dealing
with financing, billing, collection, and the like, and is determined to carry
out the provisions of all sections of this article with the same.
   (c)   The Treasurer is hereby empowered to adjust, settle or cancel any
charge or fee required or made under this article or any controversy which may
arise in the administration of this article. However, such exercise of
authority by the Treasurer shall be in a uniform manner, and not exercised in a
capricious or arbitrary fashion and a written or electronic record shall be
kept of any and all such adjustments, settlements or cancellations.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.04 RATES; FEES; CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   The fees or charges levied, imposed and assessed pursuant to this article
for the maintenance, continuance and improvement of fire protection utility
services, outside of the corporate limits but within the First Due Area, shall
be as follows:
   (a)   Owner - single family residential unit: $150 per year.
   (b)   Owner - dual residential unit structure: $150 per year per unit.
   (c)   Owner - multiple family residential unit structure: $0.045 x gross
square feet + $100 per year.
   (d)   Owner - nonresidential unit structure: $0.045 x gross square feet + $
100 per year.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.05 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (a)   All fees and charges for fire protection services shall be billed and
collected by the Treasurer and shall not be pro-rated for less than 30 days.
   (b)   Charges for the fire protection service may be billed on a monthly,
quarterly or annual basis as determined by the Treasurer and all charges shall
be billed in advance of the services being rendered.
   (c)   To avoid the late payment penalty imposed by subsection (d) hereof,
payment for any fire protection service fee imposed by this article, shall be
paid within 20 days of the date of the bill for services is mailed.
   (d)   For the purpose of nonresidential unit structures that are subject to
a written lease agreement, the fire fee thereon shall be considered a utility
as may be defined in said lease agreement.
   (e)   Delinquent charges; penalty. Any charge for service remaining unpaid
20 days after the billing date shall be deemed delinquent and a late payment
penalty of 10% of the unpaid charge for that billing shall be assessed. In the
event that any such delinquent charge remains unpaid for 12 months, an
additional penalty equal to interest at the rate of 10% per annum of the
billing shall be assessed.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.06 CHARGE OR FEE DEBT DUE TOWN.
   The fees or charges provided for by this article shall be a debt due the
town. The town may collect any such fee or charge and all accrued penalties by
action against the owner of property against whom the service charges have been
assessed by action before the Magistrate Court of Harrison County or by
appropriate proceedings in the Circuit Court of Harrison County.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.07 ASSESSMENT—RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The Treasurer shall make and promulgate, from time to time, suitable
regulations governing the services hereby provided, the making of statement of
accounts, the collection thereof, and such other rules and regulations as he or
she may deem proper or necessary for the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.08 CHARGES ARE RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Each and every property owner of residential unit structures, dual
residential unit structures, multiple-family residential unit structures and
nonresidential unit structures shall be responsible for payment of the fire
protection service fee charges assessed, imposed and levied under this article.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners of all buildings
and structures within the town to notify the Treasurer of any change in
ownership and other items requested by the Treasurer within 30 days of such
change.
   (c)   The Town of Nutter Fort will utilize square footages supplied by a
combination of county records, measurement by town employees and/or information
supplied by the property owners for purposes of billing this fire fee. It shall
be the responsibility of the owner of the building to review these square
footages and notify the town of any changes within 60 days of the billing.
Failure to notify the town of any discrepancies will void the owner’s right for
reduction of previous billings. If the owner determines that the town is not
billing at sufficient square footage, the owner must notify the town within 60
days or the owner will be subject to a penalty under §
1525.99 of this article. The penalty shall be the lesser of all fire fees for
the duration of owner’s ownership of the property from the enactment of this
article, plus penalties and interest at the highest rates allowed by law, or
five years of fire fees, plus penalties and interest at the highest rates
allowed by law.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.09 PROTESTS.
   The owner of any such building above feeling aggrieved by a charge or fee
for fire protection service may protest the same by giving written notice under
oath to the Treasurer setting forth his or her objections on or before 35 days
after the billing date. The owner shall present information and documentation
to the Treasurer concerning his or her objections with regard to the charge or
fee for fire protection service. The Treasurer shall consider the information
and documentation and make a determination concerning the appropriate charge or
fee to be assessed. If the owner is not satisfied with the Treasurer’s
determination, the owner may continue the protest by notifying the Treasurer in
writing and paying a non-returnable filing fee of $50. Upon receipt of such
protest, the Treasurer shall report the same to the Fire Service Fee Appeals
Board, which shall set a date within 30 days of the filing of the protest for a
hearing thereon. Any such owner shall have the right to be heard concerning
such protest in person or by an attorney at such hearing. The Fire Service Fee
Appeals Board shall render its decision based on the record made at the hearing
within a reasonable time, giving notice in writing of its decision to all
parties concerned. Any decision made by the Fire Service Fee Appeals Board
shall not have any bearing on the valuation placed on property by the Harrison
County Assessor. The amount, if any, due the town under such decision shall be
due and payable 30 days after service of the decision. Any person aggrieved by
such decision may, within 30 days from the service of the decision, file a
petition duly verified with the Circuit Court of Harrison County, requesting
review certiorari; otherwise, such decision becomes final and conclusive.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.10 FIRE SERVICE FEE APPEALS BOARD.
   There is hereby established a Fire Service Appeals Board consisting of three
members, one of whom shall be a member of Council appointed by the Mayor, one
of whom shall be the Fire Chief, the third shall be a resident of the town
appointed by Council. The members’ terms, except for the Fire Chief, shall be
for a term of two years. Any vacancy for whatever cause shall be filled as soon
as possible, but no longer than 30 days after the vacancy occurs.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   No structure or building shall be exempt from the fees imposed by this
article, whether the title or ownership thereof and therein be vested in the
United States of America, the state, or any political subdivision thereof, or
whether the property is used for educational, literary, scientific, religious,
charitable or cemetery purposes, or otherwise be exempt from the payment of
real property taxes under the provisions of Article X of the Constitution of
the State of West Virginia.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.12 RESTRICTED USE OF REVENUES—FUTURE RATES AND CHARGES.
   All revenues received from the collection of fire protection fees provided
in this article shall be used only to defray the cost of and the continuance,
maintenance, and improvement of fire protection services within the First Due
Area of the Nutter Fort Fire Department as designated by the West Virginia Fire
Commission and the West Virginia State Fire Marshal and no part of such
revenues shall be used for any other municipal purpose. Any future adjustment
of the rates and charges imposed by this article shall be determined by
applying the same percentage adjustment equally to all rates and charges
imposed by this article.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 1525.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of the article, for which no other penalty
is provided, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 6-14-2022)
PART SEVENTEEN: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODES
CHAPTER ONE: BUILDING CODES
ARTICLE 1705: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES
Section
   
1705.01   Adoption of building codes
   
1705.02   Conflict of laws
   
1705.03   Violations and penalties
   
1705.04   Permits
   
1705.05   Fees
   
1705.06   Moving or demolition of buildings
   
1705.07   Inspections required
   
1705.08   Certificate of occupancy
   
1705.09   Rules and regulations
   
1705.10   Building Official
   
1705.11   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
§ 1705.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (a)   There is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if set out at
length herein for the purpose of safeguarding life and property and to ensure
the quality of construction of all structures erected or removed throughout the
town that certain code known as the State Building Code, set forth and defined
by updated legislative rule, W.Va. Code Title 87, Series 4, effective on August
1, 2022, and as such code at §§87-4-1 et seq. may be amended, as promulgated by
the Fire Marshal under W.Va. Code §29-3-5b.
   (b)   The executive official, or “code official”, in charge of the
departments referred to in the respective national codes adopted hereinabove by
reference in subsection (a) above, as defined in the updated W.Va. Title 87,
Series 4, is the Building Inspector.
   (c)   The Building Inspector or his or her designated representative shall
enforce the provisions of the State Building Code adopted herein.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006; Res. passed 4-23-2019; Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-8-2020;
Ord. 2022-08, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 1705.02 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   (a)   Whenever there arises a conflict between the State Fire Code and the
State Building Code, the State Fire Code shall take precedence.
   (b)   Whenever there arises a conflict between the International Plumbing
Code section of the State Building Code and the rules of the West Virginia
State Department of Health and Human Resources (DHHR), the rules of the DHHR
shall take precedence.
   (c)   Whenever there arises a conflict between the State Building Code and
the statutory laws of the State of West Virginia, the West Virginia State Code
shall take precedence.
   (d)   In the event of any conflict between any of the provisions of this
article and any provisions of any other city ordinance, this article shall take
precedence.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006)
§ 1705.03 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   If the owner of a structure fails to comply with a demolition order
within the time prescribed, the Building Inspector, or his or her designated
representative, shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed, either
through town forces, any available public agency or by contract or arrangement
with a private demolition contractor licensed to do business in West Virginia,
and in the event that any cost or expense is incurred by the town in connection
with such demolition, the said owner or owners of the real property upon which
the said structure is situated shall reimburse and pay the town for all cost
and expense incurred, and the town shall have the right to file a lien against
said real property in question for an amount not to exceed the assessed value
of the property as recorded in the office of the Harrison County Assessor, and/
or to institute a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction against the
landowner or other responsible parry for all costs incurred by the town with
respect to the property and for reasonable attorney fees and court costs
incurred in the prosecution of the action.
   (b)   In addition to the violations and penalties set forth in the State
Building Code adopted herein, any person who shall violate a provision of this
code shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $10,
nor more than $500, or imprisonment for a term not to exceed ten days, or both,
at the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006; Ord. passed 8-28-2007; Ord. passed 10-23-2007)
§ 1705.04 PERMITS.
   (a)   No person shall, within the town, move any house or other building
over any public street, sidewalk or public grounds, or demolish any building or
other structure, or erect, construct, install, repair alter or enlarge any
building or other structure or any electrical wiring/electrical services and/or
upgrade, apparatus or appliance, any gas system, apparatus or appliance or any
plumbing system or fixture which is or is to become a part of any building or
structure, except pursuant to a town building permit first issued to him or her
for such purpose.
   (b)   Applications for building permits shall be submitted in writing, on
forms provided by the town, to the Building Inspector. Each such application
shall state the location of the proposed project, the character, design and
purpose thereof, the materials proposed to be used and the manner in which the
work shall be done, and submitted with the application. The Building Inspector
may require such other information as may be necessary to enable him or her to
determine whether the proposed project meets all requirements of state law, the
codified ordinances and other ordinances.
   (c)   Each application shall be accompanied by any permit fee which may be
required for the issuance of the permit applied for.
   (d)   Upon the filing of a proper application for a building permit, the
Building Inspector shall proceed to determine whether the proposed project, if
undertaken and completed according to the statements contained therein and in
any accompanying plans, specifications or other papers, would meet all
requirements of state law, this code and other ordinances, and he or she may
refer any part or all of such application and accompanying papers to the Fire
Chief and to other town and county officers whose authority extends to any
subject covered therein for their comments and recommendations; and, to enable
those officers and the Building Inspector to make proper findings, each shall
have authority to inspect premises which are the subject of such applications,
at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice to the owners and occupants, and
in compliance with all applicable provisions of law.
   (e)   The Building Inspector shall issue a building permit, when properly
applied for upon the payment of any fee which may be required, upon
determination by him or her that the proposed project, if undertaken and
completed according to the statements contained in the application and in any
accompanying plans, specifications and other papers, would meet all
requirements of state law, the codified ordinances and other ordinances, and he
or she shall deny a permit when he or she determines that such requirements
would not be met; provided that, the Building Inspector may permit any
application to be amended by the applicant so as to meet such requirements. Nor
shall an amendment to a permit be approved until the additional fee, if any,
due to an increase in the estimated cost of the building or structure, shall
have been paid.
   (f)   Building permits shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the
Building Inspector, unless otherwise provided by the rules and regulations of
Council promulgated pursuant to this article, in either case, the application
for each building permit, together with its accompanying plans, specifications
and other papers, if any, as approved by the Building Inspector, shall be
deemed to be an integral part of the permit.
   (g)   (1)   Any permit with the estimated cost to complete the project
valued at less than $50,000 and issued by the Building Official under the
provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void if
the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within three
months and completed within six months from the issue date of the permit.
      (2)   Any permit with an estimated cost of $50,000 or more which is not
completed six months from the date of issuance shall automatically be granted a
one-time renewal for another six-month period, making the original permit valid
for a total of one year.
      (3)   If an issued permit expires prior to completion of the work for
which it was authorized, a new permit shall be obtained for the remainder of
the project and the fee therefor shall be the standard fee for the cost of the
remainder of the project. Once a new permit is issued, the six-month work
period shall begin anew.
   (h)   There is no requirement for a building permit for flooring, painting
or minor landscaping unless a contractor or handyman is performing this
service.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006; Ord. passed 3-13-2007; Ord. passed 5-22-2007; Ord.
passed 9-25-2007; Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 1705.05 FEES.
   (a)   The town hereby establishes a schedule of fees for construction/
building permits applied for and issued made pursuant to the provisions of this
article as follows:
 
Estimated Construction Costs Fee
0 - 2,500.00                 $25
2,500.01 and up              1.25% of total construction costs
 
   (b)   There will be a maximum construction/building permit fee of $35,000.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006; Ord. passed 5-22-2007; Ord. 2020-03, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 1705.06 MOVING OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   (a)   Before a building may be demolished or moved, the owner thereof shall
notify all utilities having service connections within the building such as
water, electric, gas, telephone, sewer and other connections. A permit to
demolish or move a building shall not be issued until a release is obtained
from the utilities, stating that their respective service connections and
appurtenant equipment, such as meters and regulators, have been removed or
sealed and plugged in a safe manner.
   (b)   Only when written notice has been given by the applicant to the owners
of adjoining lots and to the owners of wires or other facilities, of which the
temporary removal may be necessitated by the proposed work, shall a permit be
granted for the moving of a building or structure.
   (c)   Whenever a building is demolished or moved, the premises shall be
maintained free from all unsafe or hazardous conditions by the proper
regulation of the lot, restoration of established grades and the erection of
the necessary retaining walls and fences.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006)
§ 1705.07 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The Building Inspector may inspect or cause to be inspected at various
intervals all construction or work for which a permit is required, and a final
inspection shall be made of every building or structure upon completion, prior
to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy required by this article.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006)
§ 1705.08 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (a)   Upon completion of a building erected after the effective date of the
codified ordinances and in accordance with approved plans, and after the final
inspection referred to in this article, and upon application therefor, the
Building Inspector, upon his or her finding that all requirements of state law
and this article have been complied with, shall issue a certificate of
occupancy stating the nature of the occupancy permitted, the number of persons
for each floor when limited by law and the allowable load per square foot for
each floor in accord with nationally accepted safe standards.
   (b)   (1)   No person owning or in charge of any building or other structure
in the town which has been erected, constructed, installed, repaired, altered
or enlarged pursuant to a building permit issued under this article on or after
the effective date of the codified ordinances shall permit the use or occupancy
of such building or other structure without having first obtained the
certificate of occupancy. In the circumstance of a newly constructed building
or a structure undergoing major renovation, a certificate of occupancy may be
issued temporarily for a portion or portions of a building which may safely be
occupied prior to final completion of the building and issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the entire building.
      (2)   A building or structure, or unit therein, vacant for six months or
more will require a certificate of occupancy before this building or structure
or unit may safely be occupied.
   (c)   A certificate of occupancy, indicating completion of the work for
which a permit was issued for new construction, shall be obtained prior to any
occupancy of a building or structure, or unit therein, except as provided for
in the State Building Code. The following fee schedule shall be collected prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Single unit residential structure: $25;
      (2)   Multi-unit residential structure: $50/unit; and
      (3)   Commercial structure or unit: $50/unit.
   (d)   If, upon inspection, the property is found to conform to the
requirements of this article and/or the State Building Code, the Building
Inspector shall issue a certificate of use and occupancy within ten days.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006; Ord. passed 3-13-2007; Ord. passed 3-10-2010)
§ 1705.09 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Council may promulgate and from time to time amend rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with state law, the codified ordinances or other
ordinances, for the implementation of the provisions of this article and to
carry out the intent and spirit thereof.
   (b)   Such rules and regulations may include, among other pertinent subjects
not herein mentioned, the following:
      (1)   The issuance, suspension and revocation of building permits and
certificates of occupancy;
      (2)   Inspection of work done, materials used and the like, pursuant to
permit;
      (3)   Variations from and waivers of provisions of this article in cases
of undue hardship, when any such variation or waiver would not result in a
departure from the intent and spirit of this article or a fire hazard or hazard
to the health, safety or well being of the public or any segment of the public
or any individual;
      (4)   Stop-work orders and other enforcement powers of the Building
Inspector; and
      (5)   Appeals to Council or one of its committees or to some other body
from decisions, orders and actions of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2006)
§ 1705.10 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (a)   The office of the Building Official is hereby established.
   (b)   The Building Official, also known as “Code Enforcement Officer or
Official”, “Compliance Officer” or “Building Inspector” throughout the codified
ordinances and the international codes, shall have the authority to interpret
and enforce the provisions of the Building and Housing Code. Such
interpretations, policies and procedures shall be in conformance with the
intent and purpose of said code and shall not have the effect of waiving
requirements specifically provided for in this code.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006)
§ 1705.11 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (a)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (b)   Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing
water more than 24 inches in depth shall be completely surrounded by a fence or
barrier at least 48 inches in height above the finished ground level measured
on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and doors in such barriers
shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-latching device is less
than 54 inches above the bottom of the gate, the release mechanism shall be
located on the pool side of the gate. Self-closing and self-latching gates
shall be maintained such that the gate will positively close and latch when
released from an open position of six inches from the gatepost. No existing
pool enclosure shall be removed, replaced or changed in a manner that reduces
its effectiveness as a safety barrier.
(Ord. passed 8-10-2010)
CHAPTER THREE: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
ARTICLE 1709: SCOPE, ADMINISTRATION AND DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1709.01   General comments; purpose
   
1709.02   Title
   
1709.03   Scope
   
1709.04   Intent
   
1709.05   Severability
   
1709.06   Applicability
   
1709.07   Department of Property Maintenance Inspection
   
1709.08   Code official
   
1709.09   Approvals; testing
   
1709.10   Violations
   
1709.11   Notices and orders
   
1709.12   Unsafe structures and equipment
   
1709.13   Emergency measures
   
1709.14   Demolition
   
1709.15   Means of appeal
   
1709.16   Stop-work orders
   
1709.17   Definitions
   
1709.18   Building and Housing Code Appeals Board
§ 1709.01 GENERAL COMMENTS; PURPOSE.
   (a)   The law of building regulation is grounded on the police power of the
state. This power is the source of all authority to enact building regulations.
In terms of how it is used, police power is the power of the state to legislate
for the general welfare of its citizens. This power enables the passage of laws
such as a property maintenance code. It is from the police power delegated by
the state legislature that local governments are able to enact building
regulations. If the state legislature has limited this power in any way, the
municipality may not exceed these limitations. While the municipality may not
further delegate its police power (for example, by delegating the burden of
determining code compliance to the building owner, contractor or architect), it
may turn over the administration of building regulations to a municipal
official, such as a code official; provided that, he or she is given sufficient
criteria to clearly establish the basis for decisions as to whether or not a
proposed building conforms to this article is largely concerned with
maintaining “due process of law” in enforcing the provisions contained in the
body of the code. Only through careful observation of the administrative
provisions can the code official reasonably hope to demonstrate that “equal
protection under the law” has been provided. While it is generally assumed that
the administrative and enforcement sections of a code are geared toward the
responsibilities of the code official, the provisions also establish the rights
and privileges of the design professional, contractor and building owner.
   (b)   This article establishes the necessary legal basis for enforcement of
the code by the authority having jurisdiction. All of the police powers
inherent in enforcing minimum standards for the use and maintenance of
buildings must follow the line of authority, from the U.S. Constitution to the
state to the actual enforcer. This article defines the role and
responsibilities of the authority having jurisdiction. To protect all parties
from an unfair enforcement action, this article also sets forth the due process
that requires corrective actions to be accomplished in a constitutional manner.
Police powers are not unlimited, and this chapter identifies those limitations.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.02 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Town of Nutter Fort Property
Maintenance Standards”, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing residential and non-
residential structures and all existing premises and constitute minimum
requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment and facilities
for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the
elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and
sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators and occupants;
the occupancy of existing structures and premises; and for administration,
enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.04 INTENT.
   This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises. Existing
structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be
altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety, as
required herein.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this code is, for
any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.06 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences
occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different
sections of this code specify different requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern.
   (b)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
   (c)   Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the current adopted International Building Code,
International Energy Conservation Code, International Fire Code, International
Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Residential Code,
International Plumbing Code and NFPA 70. Nothing in this code shall be
construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the International
Zoning Code.
   (d)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is
dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
   (e)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (f)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings when such
buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe and in the
public interest of health, safety and welfare.
   (g)   Referenced codes and standards.
      (1)   General. The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be
those that are listed as the State Adopted Building Codes with exceptions as
noted, and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed
extent of each such reference and as further regulated in subsections (g)(2),
(g)(3) and (g)(4) below.
      (2)   Exception. Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the
conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the
listing shall apply.
      (3)   Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code
and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
      (4)   Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the extent of
the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is
within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable,
shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
   (h)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the code official.
   (i)   Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers,
or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to such chapter, section or provision of this code.
   (j)   Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.07 DEPARTMENT OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION.
   (a)   General. The Department of Property Maintenance Inspection is hereby
created and the executive official in charge thereof shall be known as the
“code official”.
   (b)   Appointment. The code official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction currently the Town Mayor with the
consent of the Town Council. The property maintenance inspector and the code
official shall serve as the same and will serve at the will and pleasure of the
Mayor.
   (c)   Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this
jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code
official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy(s). Such employees shall
have powers as delegated by the code official.
   (d)   Liability. The code official, member of the Board of Appeals or
employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the
jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by
reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit
instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that
officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions
of this code shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction
until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any
subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that
is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
   (e)   Fees. The fees and for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as
indicated in this chapter, as outlined in §
1709.10 of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.08 CODE OFFICIAL.
   (a)   General. The code official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this code. The code official shall have the authority
to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in
order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of
this code. Such policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving
requirements specifically provided for in this code.
   (b)   Inspections. The code official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The code official is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise,
subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
   (c)   Right of entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this code, or whenever the code official has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises a condition in
violation of this code, the code official is authorized to enter the structure
or premises at reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by
this code; provided that, if such structure or premises is occupied, the code
official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such
structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the code
official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
   (d)   Identification. The code official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
code.
   (e)   Notices and orders. The code official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
   (f)   Department records. The code official shall keep official records of
all business and activities of the Department specified in the provisions of
this code. Such records shall be retained in the official records for the
period required for retention of public records.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.09 APPROVALS; TESTING.
   (a)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the code official shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon application of the
owner or owner’s representative; provided, the code official shall first find
that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical
and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code
and that such modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety
requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded
and entered in the Department files.
   (b)   Alternative materials, methods and equipment. The provisions of this
code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code;
provided that, any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material
or method of construction shall be approved where the code official finds that
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code
in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
   (c)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the code official
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction.
      (1)   Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the code official shall be permitted to approve appropriate testing
procedures performed by an approved agency.
      (2)   Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the code
official for the period required for retention of public records.
   (d)   Used material and equipment. The use of used materials which meet the
requirements of this code for new materials is permitted. Materials, equipment
and devices shall not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have
been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and proper working
condition and approved by the code official.
   (e)   Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with such approval.
   (f)   Research reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the
approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code,
shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation
to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
   (b)   Notice of violation. The code official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with §
1709.11 of this article.
   (c)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
violation or order served in accordance with §
1709.11 of this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil
infraction as determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be
deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
Fines and penalties will be imposed by the Municipal Court Judge. Each case
shall be assessed on an individual basis by determining the expense, time,
labor and fees involved. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction
on such premises shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (d)   Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof,
shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (e)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building structure or
premises.
   (f)   Property maintenance fee. There is hereby imposed a property
maintenance fee for activities and services performed by the Department in
carrying out the property owner’s responsibilities under this chapter; the
property maintenance fee shall be $50 per hour for each employee of the town
directed to perform or carry out a specific activity or service under the
authority of this chapter, plus $50 for each piece of equipment used. The
property maintenance fee hereby imposed shall be due and payable no later than
14 days after the service or activity occurs.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.11 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (a)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the code official determines
that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a
violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in
subsections (b) and (c) below to the person responsible for the violation as
specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply
with §
1709.12(c) of this article.
   (b)   Form. Such notice prescribed in subsection (a) above shall be in
accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
§
1709.10(c) of this article.
   (c)   Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
   (d)   Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the
code official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed
without authorization from the code official.
   (e)   Penalties. Penalties for non-compliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in §
1709.10(d) of this article.
   (f)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the code official and shall furnish to the code official a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.12 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the code official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this code.
      (1)   An UNSAFE STRUCTURE is one that is found to be dangerous to the
life, health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the
structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in
the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so
damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty
construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is
possible.
      (2)   UNSAFE EQUIPMENT includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator,
moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or
other equipment on the premises or within the structure which is in such
disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health,
property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
      (3)   A structure is UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY whenever the code official
finds that such structure is unsafe, unlawful or, because of the degree to
which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin
or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or lacks ventilation,
illumination, sanitary or heating facilities or other essential equipment
required by this code, or because the location of the structure constitutes a
hazard to the occupants of the structure or to the public.
      (4)   An UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE is one found in whole or in part to be
occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was erected,
altered or occupied contrary to law.
      (5)   For the purpose of this code, any structure or premises that has
any or all of the conditions or defects described below shall be considered
DANGEROUS:
         (a)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of
egress that does not conform to the approved building or fire code of the
jurisdiction as related to the requirements for existing buildings;
         (b)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress;
         (c)   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has
been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect,
abandonment, vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is
likely to partially or completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged;
         (d)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the
original designed value;
         (e)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way;
         (f)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly
unsafe for its use and occupancy;
         (g)   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act;
         (h)   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the approved Building or Fire Code of
the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety;
         (i)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation,
mechanical or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the code official
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (j)   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire-resistance-rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the code official to be a threat to life or health; and
         (k)   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition
or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or
structure is abandoned so as to constitute such building or portion thereof as
an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (b)   Closing of vacant structures.
      (1)   General. If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation
and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the code official
is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the
structure closed up so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the
owner to close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the code
official shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any
available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate and may be
collected by any other legal resource.
      (2)   Authority to disconnect service utilities. The code official shall
have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the
building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes
and standards set forth in §
1709.06 of this article in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an
immediate hazard to life or property or when such utility connection has been
made without approval. The code official shall notify the serving utility and,
whenever possible, the owner and occupant of the building, structure or service
system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking such action. If not
notified prior to disconnection, the owner or occupant of the building
structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as practical
thereafter.
   (c)   Notice. Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with §
1709.10(c) of this article. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also
be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall be in the form
prescribed in §
1709.10(b) of this article.
   (d)   Placarding.
      (1)   General. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official shall post
on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
“Condemned” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard. Upon notice of
condemnation, and prior to any entry into a structure, the owner or person
legally responsible for the property must submit an assessment of the
structural integrity of the property from a competent professional, a written
plan of remediation for defects, a time line for completion, and submit an
application for a building permit as required in §
1705.04 of the codified ordinances of the Town of Nutter Fort.
      (2)   Placard removal. The code official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
   (e)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded
by the code official shall be vacated as ordered by the code official. Any
person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be
liable for the penalties provided by this code.
   (f)   Abatement methods. The owner, operator or occupant of a building,
premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the code official shall abate or cause
to be abated or corrected such unsafe conditions either by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action.
   (g)   Record. The code official shall cause a report to be filed on an
unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the
nature of the unsafe condition.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.13 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (a)   Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the code official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official”. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure,
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
   (b)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent danger due to
an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary work to be
done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the code official
deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (c)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the code official
shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (d)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the code official
shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible.
   (e)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs.
   (f)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the Appeals Board, be afforded a hearing as described in this code.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.14 DEMOLITION.
   (a)   General. The code official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the code official’s judgment after
review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove such structure; or, if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and
hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owner’s option; or
where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a
period of more than two years, the code official shall order the owner to
demolish and remove such structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding
the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond one year, unless
approved by the Building Official.
   (b)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
1709.11 of this article.
   (c)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the code official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (d)   Salvage materials.
      (1)   When any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the
governing body or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement
aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials at
the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting
the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a
report of such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the
amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order
of a court.
      (2)   If such a surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report
shall so state.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.15 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (a)   Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the code official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the
right to appeal to the Board of Appeals; provided that, a written application
for appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision, notice or order
was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
   (b)   Membership of Board. The Board of Appeals shall consist of a minimum
of three members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on
matters pertaining to property maintenance and who are not employees of the
jurisdiction. The code official shall be an ex officio member, but shall have
no vote on any matter before the Board. The Board shall be appointed by the
chief appointing authority, and shall serve staggered and overlapping terms.
      (1)   Alternate members. The chief appointing authority shall appoint a
minimum of two alternate members who shall be called by the Board Chairperson
to hear appeals during the absence or disqualification of a member. Alternate
members shall possess the qualifications required for Board membership.
      (2)   Chairperson. The Board shall annually select one of its members to
serve as Chairperson.
      (3)   Disqualification of member. A member shall not hear an appeal in
which that member has a personal, professional or financial interest.
      (4)   Secretary. The chief administrative officer shall designate a
qualified person to serve as secretary to the Board. The Secretary shall file a
detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the chief administrative
officer.
      (5)   Compensation of members. Compensation of members shall be
determined by law.
   (c)   Notice of meeting. The Board shall meet upon notice from the
Chairperson, within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic
meetings.
   (d)   Open hearing.
      (1)   General. All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public.
The appellant, the appellant’s representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard. A
quorum shall consist of a minimum of two-thirds of the Board membership.
      (2)   Procedure. The Board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the Secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but
shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
   (e)   Postponed hearing. When the full Board is not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant’s representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
   (f)   Board decision. The Board shall modify or reverse the decision of the
code official only by a concurring vote of a majority of the total number of
appointed Board members.
      (1)   Records and copies. The decision of the Board shall be recorded.
Copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the code official.
      (2)   Administration. The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board.
   (g)   Court review. Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer.
   (h)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard by the Appeals Board.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.16 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   (a)   Authority. Whenever the code official finds any work regulated by this
code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in
a dangerous or unsafe manner, the code official is authorized to issue a stop-
work order.
   (b)   Issuance. A stop-work order shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property, to the owner’s agent or to the person doing the
work. Upon issuance of a stop-work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop-work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
   (c)   Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not be
required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
   (d)   Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop-work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
in accordance with penalties listed in §
1709.10(b) of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.17 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   General comments. The words or terms defined in this chapter are
deemed to be of prime importance in either specifying the subject matter of
code provisions or in giving meaning to certain terms used throughout the code
for administrative or enforcement purposes. Subsections (d) through (g) below
address the practical concerns encountered when interpreting the code in
relation to the use of gender, tense and singular versus plural. This section
also provides the code official with guidance for finding definitions of those
words or terms not defined herein. Subsection (h) below provides an
alphabetical listing of those terms that are commonly used throughout the code
and that are required for the effective application of code requirements.
   (b)   Purpose. Codes, by their very nature, are technical documents. As
such, literally every word, term and punctuation mark can add to or change the
meaning of the intended result. This is even more so with a performance code
where the desired result often takes on more importance than the specific
words. Furthermore, the code, with its broad scope of applicability, includes
terms inherent in a variety of construction disciplines. These terms can often
have multiple meanings, depending on the context or discipline being used at
the time. For these reasons, it is necessary to maintain a consensus on the
specific meaning of terms contained in the code. This section performs this
function by stating clearly what specific terms mean for the purpose of the
code.
   (c)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
   (d)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (e)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the International Building Code, International Existing
Building Code, International Fire Code, International Fuel Gas Code,
International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code, International
Residential Code, International Zoning Code or NFPA 70, such terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
   (f)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   (g)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof”.
   (h)   General definitions.
      ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
      APPROVED. Approved by the code official.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
      BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or
shower.
      BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
      DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from
another and that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
      DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EASEMENT. The portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
      EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
the equipment and the structure.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
      GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at
or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the
possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and
similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
space equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating
which does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower.
      IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin, pigeons, bats or other pests.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the
public streets for reason including, but not limited to, being unlicensed,
uninsured, wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being
moved under its own power.
      LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a
label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized
testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with
product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the
above-labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment,
material or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found
suitable for a specified purpose.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance or attendance for a building or
structure or surrounding property.
      OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is
utilized or occupied.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
      PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that serve as their food or water; by other approved
pest elimination methods by licensed pest elimination professionals.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way,
including any structures thereon.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or
without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family
dwelling.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage;
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
      SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also
include permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or
kitchen facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not SLEEPING UNITS.
      STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
      TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
      TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub
or shower. In the context of the code, a TOILET ROOM is a room that contains
plumbing fixtures used for elimination of bodily wastes (water closets and
urinals) and also includes fixtures used for handwashing (lavatories).
      ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and which
shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80% or less of the
maximum strength.
      VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned
or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
      WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner (such as, generally plumb,
level, square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work).
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure. YARD is similar to
“exterior property”, but pertains only to the open area on a lot with a
structure
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1709.18 BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE APPEALS BOARD.
   (a)   Appeals Board. An appeals board (“Town of Nutter Fort Building and
Housing Code Appeals Board” or “Code Appeals Board”) of five members shall be
appointed by the Mayor. The Town Council shall ratify and confirm the
appointment of each member of the Code Appeals Board. The Code Appeals Board
shall consist of five members who are qualified by experience and training to
pass on matters pertaining to building construction and are not employees of
the Town of Nutter Fort. They may include, but are not limited to, a state-
registered professional architect or engineer, or a state-licensed general
building, residential, electrical, piping, plumbing, mechanical or fire
protection contractor, with at least ten years experience, five of which shall
be in responsible charge of work. No less than one of the members of such Board
of Appeals shall be a state-registered professional architect or engineer, or a
state-licensed general building, residential, electrical, piping, plumbing,
mechanical or fire protection contractor. Board members shall be appointed for
five-year terms, or until a successor is appointed. Three members will form a
quorum at any appeal hearing. Appeals to the Code Appeals Board shall be
pursuant to the provisions of each town Property Maintenance Code, and
international code, which is part of the State Building Code under which the
appeal is made and notice and procedure with regard to the appeal shall follow
the publication mandates of each international code, which is part of the State
Building Code.
   (b)   Right to appeal. 
      (1)   Any person directly affected by a decision of the code official or
a notice or order issued under the Building and Housing Code shall have the
right to appeal to the Building and Housing Code Appeals Board, provided that a
written application for the appeal is filed within 20 calendar days after the
decision, notice, or order was served. Formal application for appeal may be
obtained by the Town of Nutter Fort. An application for appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of the code or the rules has been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of the code do not fully apply, or the requirements
of the code are adequately satisfied by other means, or that the strict
application of any requirement of the code would cause an undue hardship. The
Building and Housing Code Appeals Board shall render a decision within 30 days
of receipt of appeal.
      (2)   There shall be a $250 nonrefundable fee for each appeal for the
activities and services performed by the Building and Housing Code Appeals
Board.
   (c)   Right to appeal to Circuit Court. Should the decision of the Code
Appeals Board be adverse to the appellant, the appellant shall be advised of
his or her right to appeal to the Circuit Court of Harrison County, West
Virginia, within 30 days of entry of the final decision by the Code Appeals
Board.
   (d)   Open hearings. All hearings before the Code Appeals Board shall be
open to the public.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed - -; Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2020-05, passed
12-8-2020)
ARTICLE 1713: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1713.01   General comments; purpose
   
1713.02   Scope
   
1713.03   Responsibility
   
1713.04   Vacant structures and land
   
1713.05   Exterior property areas
   
1713.06   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
   
1713.07   Exterior structures
   
1713.08   Interior structures
   
1713.09   Component serviceability
   
1713.10   Handrails and guardrails
   
1713.11   Rubbish and garbage
   
1713.12   Pest elimination
§ 1713.01 GENERAL COMMENTS; PURPOSE.
   (a)   The title for this article indicates that it is broad in scope. It
includes a variety of requirements for the exterior property areas, as well as
the interior and exterior elements of the structure. This article provides
specific criteria for regulating the installation and maintenance of building
components. This chapter also contains requirements regulating the safety,
sanitation and appearance of the interior and exterior of structures and all
exterior property areas. Section
1713.02 through
1713.04 of this article identifies the scope of this article as containing
provisions for maintaining a structure and its exterior property areas and
establishes who is responsible for complying with the chapter’s provisions.
This section also provides minimum maintenance requirements for vacant
structures and land. Section
1713.05 of this article establishes criteria for maintaining exterior property
areas and accessory structures and provides vehicle storage regulations.
Section
1713.06 of this article contains the requirements for swimming pools, spas and
hot tubs and provides requirements for protective barriers and gates in these
barriers. Section
1713.07 of this article establishes maintenance requirements for the
structural, weather resistance, sanitary and safety performance of the exterior
of a structure. Section
1713.08 of this article establishes maintenance requirements for the
structural, sanitary and safety performance of the interior of a structure.
Section
1713.09 of this article contains provisions for maintaining components of a
structure, as well as for determining unsafe conditions based on specific
parameters. Section
1713.10 of this article provides for the safety and maintenance of handrails
and guardrails. Sections
1713.11 and
1713.12 of this article establish the responsible parties for exterminating
insects and rodents, and maintaining sanitary conditions in various types of
occupancies. When specific requirements are not provided in the code, the
following three options for establishing the necessary criteria are available.
      (1)   If the jurisdiction has already established criteria, the code
official can continue to enforce that criteria.
      (2)   The jurisdiction may adopt its own criteria and incorporate them as
an amendment to the appropriate section of the code.
      (3)   The code official may adopt and enforce criteria already
established by the current adopted International Building Code (IBC).
   (b)   This article also provides the code official with guidelines for
determining who is responsible for maintaining sanitary conditions and
eliminating infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Inadequate
sanitation and insect or rodent infestations can have a significant impact on a
community. A poorly kept neighborhood affects the self image of a community, as
well as the impression neighboring communities and visitors have about the
area. Responsible property owners may shy away from neighborhoods that look
unkempt. As a result, property values decrease and the cycle can continue until
the neighborhood is considered a slum. An area that is neat, clean and well
maintained attracts owners and occupants who are usually willing to keep the
area attractive, if only to protect their own interests. The code official,
with vigorous enforcement of sanitation and extermination regulations, can help
a community maintain a positive self-image. This creates a favorable image to
the rest of the community and its visitors.
   (c)   This article provides requirements that are intended to maintain a
minimum level of safety and sanitation for both the general public and the
occupants of a structure, and to maintain a building’s structural and weather-
resistant performance.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall govern the minimum conditions and the
responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment and
exterior property.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior
property in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided
for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and
which do not comply with the requirements of this article. Occupants of a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in
a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling unit, rooming
unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they occupy and control.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.04 VACANT STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.05 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (a)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (b)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon. Exception: approved retention
areas and reservoirs.
   (c)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (d)   Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds or plant growth in excess of eight inches above ground level. All
noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses,
annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs; provided, however,
this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens. Upon failure of the
owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and destroy weeds after
service of a notice of violation, he or she shall be subject to prosecution in
accordance with §
1709.10 of this chapter. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation,
any duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
   (e)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly terminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent re-infestation.
   (f)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (g)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   (h)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair or in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of
vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
Exception: a vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work; provided that, such work is performed inside a structure
or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   (i)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.06 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (a)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (b)   Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing
water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or barrier at least 48 inches (1,219 mm) in height above the finished
ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and
doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-
latching device is a minimum of 54 inches (1,372 mm) above the bottom of the
gate, the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate.
Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate
will positively close and latch when released from an open position of six
inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure shall be removed,
replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a safety
barrier. Exception: spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies with
ASTM F 1346 shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.07 EXTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair, structurally
sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare.
   (a)   Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the International
Building Code or the International Existing Building Code as required for
existing buildings:
      (1)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
      (2)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of
walls and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads
or load effects;
      (3)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
      (4)   Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather-resistant or water-tight;
      (5)   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that are
not capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects;
      (6)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings, are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (7)   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (8)   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain,
roof surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that
is not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
      (9)   Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
      (10)   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
      (11)   Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited to,
trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, stand pipes and
exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections not
capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
      (12)   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects; or
      (13)   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances
not structurally sound or not properly anchored, or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects. Exceptions:
         (a)   When substantiated otherwise by an approved method; or
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved
by the code official.
   (b)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including, but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies,
decks and fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood
surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the
elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment.
Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted.
All siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the building envelope
and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained weather-
resistant and water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion
shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and all surfaces with rust
or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (c)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be
a minimum of four inches (102 mm) in height with a minimum stroke width of one-
half inch (12.7 mm).
   (d)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (e)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (f)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks
and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weather-proof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (g)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (h)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (i)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (j)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (k)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (l)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (m)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather-tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (n)   Insect screens. During the period from April 1 to October 31, every
door, window and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable
rooms, food reparation areas, food service areas or any areas where products to
be included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed,
manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly
fitting screens of minimum 16-mesh insect control shall have a self-closing
device in good working condition. Exception: screens shall not be required
where other approved means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are
employed.
   (o)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems, if
provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all
entrances to dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door.
Locks on means of egress doors shall be in accordance with §
1729.03(c) of this chapter.
   (p)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (q)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (r)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
      (1)   Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress
is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall
have a minimum lock throw of one inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be
installed according to the manufacturer’s specifications and maintained in good
working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be
considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
      (2)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six
feet (1,828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide
access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented,
leased or let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
      (3)   Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
   (s)   Gates. All exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems, if
provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all
entrances shall tightly secure the gates.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.08 INTERIOR STRUCTURES.
   The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained in
good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition. Occupants shall
keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in a clean and
sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming house,
housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or two or
more non-residential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
   (a)   Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the International
Building Code or the International Existing Building Code as required for
existing buildings:
      (1)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
      (2)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns and of walls
and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads or
load effects;
      (3)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
      (4)   Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and
load effects;
      (5)   Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces,
including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly
anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects; and
      (6)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
Exceptions:
         (a)   When substantiated otherwise by an approved method; and
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved
by the code official.
   (b)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (c)   Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping,
flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or
loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
   (d)   Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair. Handrails, treads and risers must be structurally sound, firmly
attached to the structure and properly maintained to safely perform their
intended function.
   (e)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (f)   Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.09 COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY.
   (a)   General. The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
   (b)   Unsafe conditions. Where any of the following conditions cause the
component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or system shall
be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the
International Building Code as required for existing buildings:
      (1)   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Collapse of footing or foundation system;
         (b)   Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to soil expansion;
         (c)   Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation,
concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil;
         (d)   Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation;
         (e)   Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt; or
         (f)   Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other
structural element due to the ground water table.
      (2)   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Ultimate deformation;
         (c)   Fractures;
         (d)   Fissures;
         (e)   Spalling;
         (f)   Exposed reinforcement; or
         (g)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (3)   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Corrosion;
         (c)   Elastic deformation;
         (d)   Ultimate deformation;
         (e)   Stress or strain cracks;
         (f)   Joint fatigue; or
         (g)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (4)   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Ultimate deformation;
         (c)   Fractures in masonry or mortar joints;
         (d)   Fissures in masonry or mortar joints;
         (e)   Spalling;
         (f)   Exposed reinforcement; or
         (g)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (5)   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Deterioration;
         (b)   Elastic deformation;
         (c)   Ultimate deformation;
         (d)   Metal fatigue; or
         (e)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
      (6)   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
         (a)   Ultimate deformation;
         (b)   Deterioration;
         (c)   Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin;
         (d)   Fire damage beyond charring;
         (e)   Significant splits and checks;
         (f)   Horizontal shear cracks;
         (g)   Vertical shear cracks;
         (h)   Inadequate support;
         (i)   Detached, dislodged or failing connections; or
         (j)   Excessive cutting and notching. Exceptions:
            1.   When substantiated otherwise by an approved method; and
            2.   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when
approved by the code official.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.10 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   (a)   General. Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than
four risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open
portion of a stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking
surface which is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below
shall have guards. Handrails shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) in
height or more than 42 inches (1,067 mm) in height measured vertically above
the nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking
surfaces. Guards shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) in height above the
floor of the landing, balcony, porch, deck or ramp or other walking surface.
   (b)   Exception. Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted
Building Code.
 
HANDRAIL REQUIRED
30” TO 42” ABOVE
NOSING OF TREAD ON
AT LEAST ONE SIDE OF STAIR
IF MORE THAN 4 RISERS,
GUARD
30” MIN.
> 30” From grade or ground level For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm.
 
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.11 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (a)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (b)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      (1)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (2)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing
the doors.
   (c)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
      (1)   Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of
the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit;
an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants in
each dwelling unit; or an approved leak-proof, covered, outside garbage
container.
      (2)   Containers. The operator of every establishment producing garbage
shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leak-proof
containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials
until removed from the premises for disposal.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1713.12 PEST ELIMINATION.
   (a)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
re-infestation.
   (b)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest
elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (c)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant non- residential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on
the premises.
   (d)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a non-residential
structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the public or shared
areas of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by
failure of an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the
occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
   (e)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
   (f)   Exception. Where the infestations are caused by defects in the
structure, the owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
ARTICLE 1717: LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
Section
   
1717.01   General comments; protection
   
1717.02   Scope
   
1717.03   Responsibility
   
1717.04   Alternative devices
   
1717.05   Lights
   
1717.06   Ventilation
   
1717.07   Occupancy limitations
§ 1717.01 GENERAL COMMENTS; PROTECTION.
   (a)   This article establishes the minimum criteria for light and
ventilation and identifies occupancy limitations. Subsections
1717.02 through
1717.04 of this article outline the scope of this article (such as, minimum
light, ventilation and space requirements). This section also establishes who
is responsible for complying with the provisions of the chapter, permits
alternative arrangements of windows and other devices to comply with the
requirements for light and ventilation and prohibits certain room arrangements
and occupancy uses.
   (b)   (1)   Fundamental physiological needs:
         (a)   Provision of an atmosphere of reasonable chemical purity (proper
ventilation removes chemicals from the home and work environment);
         (b)   Provision of adequate daylight illumination and avoidance of
undue daylight glare;
         (c)   Provision for admission of direct sunlight (the sun’s rays
assist in killing germs);
         (d)   Provision of adequate artificial illumination and avoidance of
glare; and
         (e)   Provision of adequate space for exercise and for the play of
children.
      (2)   Fundamental psychological needs:
         (a)   Provision of adequate privacy for the individual;
         (b)   Provision of facilities that make possible the performance of
household tasks without undue physical and mental fatigue (adequate space and
sufficient ceiling heights reduce physical and mental fatigue);
         (c)   Protection against contagion; and
         (d)   Provision of sufficient space in sleeping rooms to minimize the
danger of contact infection.
   (c)   Protection against accidents: provision of adequate facilities for
escape in case of fire.
   (d)   Protection against overcrowding: provision for population controls can
maintain neighborhood density, which can avoid overtaxing public facilities
such as parks and schools, and avoid accelerated wear of dwellings. Habitable
rooms require adequate light to assist occupants in providing for proper
cleanliness and sanitation, and to reduce trip hazards. Well-lighted rooms have
a positive impact on mental health, while dark, dingy rooms can have the
opposite effect.
   (e)   Ventilation is defined as “the natural or mechanical process of
supplying conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any
space”. Ventilating air into a space serves three functions:
      (1)   Combustion and makeup air for fuel-burning appliances is provided;
      (2)   Air being exhausted from the building through mechanical or natural
means is replaced; and
      (3)   Air movement within the structure is enhanced. Ventilation air
exhausting from a structure also serves three functions:
         (a)   Excess moisture is eliminated;
         (b)   Unpleasant odors, toxic fumes, dirt, dust and other particulate
matter are removed; and
         (c)   Air movement within the structure is enhanced.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1717.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1717.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain light, ventilation and
space conditions in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not
occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to occupy, any premises that
do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1717.04 ALTERNATIVE DEVICES.
   In lieu of the means for natural light and ventilation herein prescribed,
artificial light or mechanical ventilation complying with the International
Building Code shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1717.05 LIGHTS.
   (a)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one window
of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum
total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8% of the floor area of
such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any
room and such obstructions are located less than three feet (914 mm) from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for
the room. Exception: where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior
glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening
to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior
room or space, but a minimum of 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The exterior glazing
area shall be based on the total floor area being served. (“Habitable space” is
defined in §
1709.17 of this chapter. HABITABLE SPACES are those spaces that are normally
considered “inhabited” in the course of residential living and provide the four
basic characteristics of living, sleeping, eating and cooking. Other spaces,
such as halls or utility rooms, are not considered habitable, but would in many
instances be considered occupiable.)
   (b)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with at least a 60-watt standard incandescent lightbulb
for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination;
provided that, the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet
(9,144 mm). In other than residential occupancies, means of egress, including
exterior means of egress, stairways shall be illuminated at all times the
building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of one
foot-candle (11 lux) at floors, landings and treads.
   (c)   Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions,
and the safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances,
equipment and fixtures.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1717.06 VENTILATION.
   (a)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum glazed area required in §
1717.05(a) of this article. Exception: where rooms and spaces without openings
to the outdoors are ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed
opening to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the
interior room or space, but a minimum of 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The
ventilation openings to the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being
ventilated.
   (b)   Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
subsection (a) above; except that, a window shall not be required in such
spaces equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a
mechanical ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to
the outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
   (c)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory unit
and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present in the
rooming unit or dormitory unit. Exceptions:
      (1)   Where specifically approved in writing by the code official; and
      (2)   Devices such as coffee pots and microwave ovens shall not be
considered cooking appliances.
   (d)   Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1717.07 OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate
from other adjoining spaces.
   (b)   Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall be
a minimum of seven feet (2,134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a
minimum clear passageway of three feet (914 mm) between counter fronts and
appliances or counter fronts and walls. Kitchens require only three feet (914
mm) of clearance between countertops and appliances or countertops and walls.
Kitchens are not expected to be occupied for long periods of time, nor is it
expected that kitchens will be occupied by a large number of persons at any one
time.
   (c)   Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a minimum clear ceiling height of seven feet (2,134 mm). Exceptions:
      (1)   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced a minimum
of four feet (1,219 mm) on center and projecting a maximum of six inches (152
mm) below the required ceiling height;
      (2)   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling
height of six feet eight inches (2,033 mm) with a minimum clear height of six
feet four inches (1,932 mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar
obstructions; and
      (3)   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes
and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a minimum clear
ceiling height of seven feet (2,134 mm) over a minimum of one-third of the
required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only
those portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling height of five
feet (1,524 mm) shall be included.
   (d)   Bedroom and living room requirements. Every bedroom and living room
shall comply with the requirements of subsections (d)(1) through (d)(5) below.
      (1)   Room area. Every living room shall contain at least 120 square feet
(11.2 m2) and every bedroom shall contain a minimum of 70 square feet (6.5 m2)
and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain a minimum of
50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof. The smallest
bedroom allowed is 70 square feet (6.5 m2). This is barely enough space for a
regular-sized bed and dresser. Inadequate sleeping space may increase the
spread of communicable diseases, reduce privacy and provide insufficient space
for clothes, furniture and other personal belongings.
      (2)   Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means
of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces. Exception: units that contain
fewer than two bedrooms.
      (3)   Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to at least one
water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
      (4)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not
be used for sleeping purposes.
      (5)   Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to: the light, ventilation,
room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this article; the
plumbing facilities and water-heating facilities requirements of
Art. 1721 of this chapter; the heating facilities and electrical receptacle
requirements of
Art. 1725 of this chapter; and the smoke detector and emergency escape
requirements of
Art. 1729 of this chapter.
   (e)   Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants
than permitted by the minimum area requirements of the table below or as
designated in the codified ordinances of the Town of Nutter Fort.
      ** Section
1705.09(d) of the Codified Ordinances of the town require application and
inspection for a certificate of use and occupancy prior to renting, leasing or
letting any vacant structure or vacant unit in a structure, commercial or
residential.
      ** Part Thirteen, Planning and Zoning Code, §
1305.01, Words and Terms
         (17)   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY means a certificate signed by the
Planning Director or Building Inspector stating that the occupancy and use of
land or a building or structure referred to therein complies with the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
         (24)   DWELLING UNIT means a dwelling or a portion of a dwelling or of
an apartment hotel used by one family for cooking, living and sleeping
purposes.
         (25)   FAMILY means one or more individuals related by blood or
marriage, or three or fewer unrelated individuals sharing one housekeeping
unit.
       (34.3)   LIVING SPACE AND REQUIRED SPACE shall be defined as contained
in the applicable codes as adopted by the Nutter Fort Town Council.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, living space shall include, however,
bathrooms and closets. All hallways shall be excluded in ascertaining living
space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/77abc2f1d869b5f8f6d2cf5b2cd0cb73f050533b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2254.png]
 
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2.
MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY LOAD IN DWELLINGS
 
Minimum Area Requirements
(Space Minimum Area in Square Feet)
                 1 - 2 occupants 3 - 5 occupants 6 or more occupants
Bedrooms         Shall comply with Section 4-4.4.1
Dining room a, b No requirement  80              100
Living room a, b 120             120             150
NOTES TO TABLE:
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.093 m2.
a. See §
1717.07(e)(2) of this article for combined living room/dining room spaces.
b. See § 1717.07(e)(1) of this article for limitations on determining the
minimum occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
 
      (1)   Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by the table
above shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with
subsection (d)(4) above.
      (2)   Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of the table above if the total area is equal to
that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function
as a combination living room/dining room.
   (f)   Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements.
      (1)   A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a minimum
clear floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m2). A unit occupied by not more than
two occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220 square feet (20.4
m2). A unit occupied by three occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area
of 320 square feet (29.7 m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the
areas required hereby.
      (2)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a minimum clear working space of 30
inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall
be provided.
      (3)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (4)   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
   (g)   Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
ARTICLE 1721: PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1721.01   General comments; principles
   
1721.02   Scope
   
1721.03   Responsibility
   
1721.04   Required facilities
   
1721.05   Toilet rooms
   
1721.06   Plumbing systems and fixtures
   
1721.07   Water system
   
1721.08   Sanitary drainage system
   
1721.09   Storm drainage
§ 1721.01 GENERAL COMMENTS; PRINCIPLES.
   (a)   This article establishes the minimum criteria for the installation,
maintenance and location of plumbing systems and facilities, including the
water supply system, water-heating appliances, sewage disposal system and
related plumbing fixtures. Existing plumbing installations may present unique
inspection problems for the code official. Almost all installations are
concealed by finished walls, ceilings and floors. The code official must
inspect the visible portions of the system and assess the acceptability of the
whole installation. To help the code official make suitable judgments, a
foundation of basic principles may aid in the enforcement process.
   (b)   The following is a listing of 23 basic principles of environmental
sanitation and safety for the design, installation and maintenance of plumbing
systems, which establish the fundamental concepts behind health and safety
regulations for plumbing systems. Knowing these principles aids in
understanding the code requirements, which leads to more effective code
enforcement.
      (1)   Principle No. 1, All Occupied Premises Shall Have Potable Water.
All buildings, structures and premises intended for human habitation,
occupancy, use or employment, or the preparation or processing of food, drinks
or other materials for human consumption shall be provided with an adequate,
safe and potable water supply through a safe system of piping to all fixtures,
appliances and appurtenances. Such a water supply must not be connected to an
unsafe water source, nor shall it be subjected to the hazards of backflow.
      (2)   Principle No. 2, Adequate Water Required. Plumbing fixtures,
devices and appurtenances shall be supplied with water in sufficient volume and
at pressures adequate to enable them to function properly and without undue
noise under normal conditions of use.
      (3)   Principle No. 3, Hot Water Required. Hot water shall be supplied to
all plumbing fixtures that normally need or require hot water for their proper
use and function.
      (4)   Principle No. 4, Water Conservation. Plumbing shall be designed and
adjusted to use the minimum quantity of water consistent with proper
performance and cleaning.
      (5)   Principle No. 5, Dangers of Explosion or Overheating. Devices for
heating and storing water shall be designed and installed so as to guard
against dangers from explosion or overheating.
      (6)   Principle No. 6, Use Public Water and Sewers Where Available. Every
building with installed plumbing fixtures intended for human habitation,
occupancy or use and located where there is a public water supply and sewer
service shall have a connection with the water supply and sewer.
      (7)   Principle No. 7, Required Plumbing Fixtures. Each family dwelling
unit shall have at least one water closet, one lavatory, one kitchen-type sink
and one bathtub or shower to meet the basic requirements of sanitation and
personal hygiene. All other structures for human occupancy or use shall be
equipped with sufficient sanitary facilities as prescribed in the code, but
with no less than one water closet and lavatory.
      (8)   Principle No. 8, Smooth Surfaces Required. Plumbing fixtures shall
be made of durable, smooth, non-absorbent and corrosion-resistant material and
shall be free from concealed fouling surfaces.
      (9)   Principle No. 9, Drainage System of Adequate Size. The drainage
system shall be designed, constructed and maintained to guard against fouling,
deposit of solids and clogging, and with adequate cleanouts arranged so that
the pipes may be readily cleaned.
      (10)   Principle No. 10, Durable Materials and Good Workmanship. The
piping of the plumbing system shall be of durable material, free from defective
workmanship and designed and constructed so as to give satisfactory service for
its reasonably expected life.
      (11)   Principle No. 11, Liquid Seal Traps Required. Each fixture
directly connected to the drainage system shall be equipped with a liquid seal
trap.
      (12)   Principle No. 12, Trap Seals Must Be Protected. The drainage
system shall be designed to provide adequate circulation of air in all pipes
without danger of siphonage, aspiration or forcing of trap seals under
conditions of ordinary use.
      (13)   Principle No. 13, Exhaust Foul Air to Outside. Each vent terminal
shall be extended to the outdoors, and be installed so as to minimize the
possibilities of clogging and the return of foul air to the building.
      (14)   Principle No. 14, Test the Plumbing System. The plumbing system
shall be subjected to tests that will effectively disclose all leaks and
defects in the work or material.
      (15)   Principle No. 15, Exclude Certain Substances from the Plumbing
System. Storm, surface or ground water or any substance that will clog or
accentuate clogging of pipes, produce explosive mixtures, destroy the pipes or
their joints or interfere unduly with the sewage disposal process shall not be
allowed to enter the building drainage system.
      (16)   Principle No. 16, Prevent Contamination. Proper protection shall
be provided to prevent contamination of food, water, sterile goods and similar
materials from backflow of sewage. When necessary, the fixture, device or
appliance shall be connected indirectly with the building drainage system.
      (17)   Principle No. 17, Light, Heat and Ventilation. A water closet,
urinal, lavatory, bathtub or shower shall not be located in a room or
compartment that is not properly lighted, heated and ventilated in accordance
with accepted practice.
      (18)   Principle No. 18, Individual Sewage Disposal Systems. If water
closets or other plumbing fixtures are installed in buildings where there is
not a public sewer, provisions shall be made for disposing of the building
sewage by an approved method of treatment and disposal.
      (19)   Principle No. 19, Prevent Sewer Flooding. Where a plumbing
drainage system is subject to backflow of sewage from the public sewer,
provisions shall be made to prevent its overflow into the building.
      (20)   Principle No. 20, Proper Maintenance. Plumbing systems shall be
maintained in a safe and serviceable condition from the standpoints of both
mechanics and health.
      (21)   Principle No. 21, Fixtures Shall Be Accessible. All plumbing
fixtures shall be installed with regard to spacing so as to be accessible for
their intended use and for cleansing.
      (22)   Principle No. 22, Structural Safety. Plumbing shall be installed
with due regard to preservation of the strength of structural members and
prevention of damage to walls and other surfaces through fixture usage.
      (23)   Principle No. 23, Protect Ground and Surface Water. Sewage or
other waste shall not be discharged into surface or subsurface water unless it
has first been subjected to an approved form of treatment.
   (c)   Sanitary and clean conditions in occupied buildings are dependent upon
certain basic plumbing principles, including providing potable water to a
building, providing fixtures to utilize that water and removing waste from the
building. This article establishes the minimum criteria to verify that these
principles are maintained throughout the life of a building.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall govern the minimum plumbing systems,
facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such plumbing
facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy
any structure or premises which does not comply with the requirements of this
article.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.04 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (a)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not
be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
   (b)   Rooming houses. At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
   (c)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
   (d)   Employees’ facilities. A minimum of one water closet, one lavatory and
one drinking facility shall be available to employees. Drinking facilities
shall be a drinking fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable
cups next to a sink or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be
located in toilet rooms or bathrooms.
   (e)   Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained
in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the International
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.05 TOILET ROOMS.
   (a)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space or to the exterior.
A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common or shared
bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
   (b)   Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming
units or dormitory units or housekeeping units shall have access by traversing
a maximum of one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
   (c)   Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall have
access from within the employees’ working area. The required toilet facilities
shall be located a maximum of one story above or below the employees’ working
area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not exceed a distance of
500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be separate facilities or
combined employee and public facilities. Exception: facilities that are
required for employees in storage structures or kiosks, which are located in
adjacent structures under the same ownership, lease or control, shall not
exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from the employees’ regular
working area to the facilities.
   (d)   Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room floor
shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, non-absorbent surface to permit such
floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.06 PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES.
   (a)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and
defects and be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
   (b)   Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances
for usage and cleaning.
   (c)   Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross-connection, backsiphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the code
official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
      (1)   Undersized piping;
      (2)   Inadequate venting;
      (3)   Cross-connections;
      (4)   Lack of backflow prevention means;
      (5)   Lack of sufficient fixtures;
      (6)   Improperly installed piping, fixtures or fittings;
      (7)   Deteriorated, damaged, worn or otherwise defective piping, fixtures
or fittings;
      (8)   Inadequately supported fixtures or piping; and
      (9)   Inadequate water pressure or volume.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.07 WATER SYSTEM.
   (a)   General.
      (1)   Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain, water
closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a public
water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the current adopted
International Plumbing Code. The desired qualities for safe water are:
         (a)   Free of pathogenic organisms;
         (b)   Free of toxic chemicals;
         (c)   Free of odor, taste, color and turbidity;
         (d)   Free of excessive minerals;
         (e)   Relatively non-corrosive; and
         (f)   Adequate in quantity and pressure.
      (2)   All sinks, lavatories, bathtubs and showers must be supplied with
cold and hot or tempered running water as regulated by the IPC. Heated water is
a basic necessity for all cleansing and bathing needs. It should be noted that
the IPC only allows tempered water (water that is 85°F (29°C) to 110°F (43°C))
to be used for bathing and washing in non-residential occupancies. The IPC
requires tempered water to be supplied to hand-washing fixtures provided for
those having physical disabilities.
   (b)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above
the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink faucets
and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in place,
shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
   (c)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely and free from defects and leaks.
   (d)   Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be properly
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a minimum temperature of 110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater shall not
be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room
normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided. An approved
combination temperature and pressure-relief valve and relief valve discharge
pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.08 SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (a)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (b)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
   (c)   Grease interceptors.
      (1)   Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal devices shall be
maintained in accordance with this code and the manufacturer’s installation
instructions.
      (2)   Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal devices shall be
regularly serviced and cleaned to prevent the discharge of oil, grease and
other substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage system, the
public sewer, the private sewage disposal system or the sewage treatment plant
or processes.
      (3)   All records of maintenance, cleaning and repairs shall be available
for inspection by the code official.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1721.09 STORM DRAINAGE.
   Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts and other open areas on
the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
ARTICLE 1725: MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1725.01   General comments; purpose
   
1725.02   Scope
   
1725.03   Responsibility
   
1725.04   Heating facilities
   
1725.05   Mechanical equipment
   
1725.06   Electrical facilities
   
1725.07   Electrical equipment
   
1725.08   Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters
   
1725.09   Duct systems
§ 1725.01 GENERAL COMMENTS; PURPOSE.
   (a)   This article establishes minimum criteria for the installation and
maintenance of the following: heating and air conditioning equipment,
appliances and systems; water-heating equipment, appliances and systems;
cooking equipment and appliances; ventilation and exhaust equipment; gas and
liquid fuel distribution piping and components; fireplaces and solid fuel-
burning appliances; chimneys and vents; electrical services; lighting fixtures;
electrical receptacle outlets; electrical distribution system equipment,
devices and wiring; and elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters.
   (b)   All mechanical and electrical equipment, appliances and systems must
be properly installed to serve the intended purpose. Proper installation,
however, does not in itself guarantee safety or performance. In addition to
proper installation, all such equipment, appliances and systems must be
maintained, as they are subject to deterioration, wear and aging, and may
require cleaning, lubrication, adjustment and the like. All materials and
components used to construct mechanical and electrical systems have a limited
life span, and require repair or replacement at various time intervals that are
specific to the material or component. The purpose of this article is to
establish minimum performance requirements for electrical and mechanical
facilities and to establish minimum standards for the safety of such
facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall govern the minimum mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy
any premises which does not comply with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.04 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (a)   Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
   (b)   Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in App. D of the International Plumbing
Code. Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor shall portable unvented fuel-
burning space heaters be used, as a means to provide required heating.
Exception: in areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C),
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (c)   Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from October 1 to April 1 to maintain a minimum
temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exceptions:
      (1)   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required; provided that, the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in App. D of the International Plumbing Code.
      (2)   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-
1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (d)   Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat during the period from October 1 to April 1 to maintain a
minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are occupied.
Exceptions:
      (1)   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions; and
      (2)   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
   (e)   Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured three feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and
two feet (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.05 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Mechanical appliances. All mechanical appliances, fireplaces, solid
fuel-burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition and shall be
capable of performing the intended function.
   (b)   Removal of combustion products. All fuel-burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent. Exception: fuel-
burning equipment and appliances which are labeled for unvented operation.
Fuel-burning equipment which are labeled for unvented operation shall not be
used in sleeping rooms or bathrooms.
   (c)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
   (d)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall
be maintained in effective operation.
   (e)   Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.06 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (a)   Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and §
1725.07 of this article.
   (b)   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as
a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a three-wire, 120/240 volt, single-
phase electrical service having a minimum rating of 60 amperes.
   (c)   Electrical system hazards.
      (1)   Where it is found that the electrical system in a structure
constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of inadequate
service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and lighting outlets,
improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar
reasons, the code official shall require the defects to be corrected to
eliminate the hazard.
      (2)   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with water exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water.
         (a)   Electrical equipment. Electrical distribution equipment, motor
circuits, power equipment, transformers, wire, cable, flexible cords, wiring
devices, ground fault circuit interrupters, surge protectors, molded case
circuit breakers, low-voltage fuses, luminaires, ballasts, motors and
electronic control, signaling and communication equipment that have been
exposed to water shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the
current adopted International Building Code. Exception: the following equipment
shall be allowed to be repaired where an inspection report from the equipment
manufacturer or approved manufacturer’s representative indicates that the
equipment has not sustained damage that requires replacement:
            1.   Enclosed switches, rated a maximum of 600 volts or less;
            2.   Busway, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            3.   Panelboards, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            4.   Switchboards, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            5.   Fire pump controllers, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
            6.   Manual and magnetic motor controllers;
            7.   Motor control centers;
            8.   Alternating current high-voltage circuit breakers;
            9.   Low-voltage power circuit breakers;
            10.   Protective relays, meters and current transformers;
            11.   Low- and medium-voltage switchgear;
            12.   Liquid-filled transformers;
            13.   Cast-resin transformers;
            14.   Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose
ends have not been exposed to water;
            15.   Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for
wet locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water;
            16.   Luminaires that are listed as submersible;
            17.   Motors; and
            18.   Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
         (b)   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with fire exposure.
The provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire. Electrical
switches, receptacles and fixtures, including furnace, water heating, security
system and power distribution circuits, that have been exposed to fire, shall
be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the current adopted
International Building Code. Exception: electrical switches, receptacles and
fixtures that shall be allowed to be repaired where an inspection report from
the equipment manufacturer or approved manufacturer’s representative indicates
that the equipment has not sustained damage that requires replacement.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.07 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
   (b)   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall have the appropriate
faceplate cover for the location.
   (c)   Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room,
kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain at
least one electric luminaire. Pool and spa luminaries over 15 V shall have
ground fault circuit interrupter protection.
   (d)   Wiring. Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent wiring, or for
running through doors, windows or cabinets, or concealed within walls, floors
or ceilings.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.08 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS.
   (a)   General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained in
compliance with ASME A17.1. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office of the building
operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the code
official. The inspection and tests shall be performed at not less than the
periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1, App. N, except where otherwise
specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
   (b)   Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least
one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied. Exception: buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be
permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or
servicing.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1725.09 DUCT SYSTEMS.
   Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall be capable
of performing the required function.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
ARTICLE 1729: FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
1729.01   Scope
   
1729.02   Responsibility
   
1729.03   Means of egress
   
1729.04   Fire-resistance ratings
   
1729.05   Fire and carbon monoxide protection systems
§ 1729.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1729.02 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain such fire safety
facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any premises
that do not comply with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1729.03 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (a)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the current adopted International Fire Code.
   (b)   Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the adopted
International Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
   (c)   Locked doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable from
the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
by the current adopted International Building Code.
   (d)   Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall be
maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction,
and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars,
grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency
escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies
with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and such devices
shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool
or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape
and rescue opening.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1729.04 FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS.
   (a)   Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The required fire-resistance rating
of fire-resistance-rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions and
floors shall be maintained.
   (b)   Opening protectives. Required opening protectives shall be maintained
in an operative condition. All fire and smoke stop doors shall be maintained in
operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or
obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
§ 1729.05 FIRE AND CARBON MONOXIDE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   Per W.Va. Code § 29-3-16a, smoke detectors in one- and two-family dwellings;
carbon monoxide detectors in residential units, smoke detectors and carbon
monoxide detectors are required on every floor, including the basement, where
gas fired appliances are in use in any part of a structure. Smoke detectors and
carbon monoxide detectors are required in every room used for sleeping. When
major renovations are performed or where there is access to drop ceilings and
access to floor crawl spaces, detectors should be hardwired and in series.
Existing battery operated smoke detectors comply with the requirements. Carbon
monoxide detectors must be hard wired or plug into a receptacle not operated by
a switch.
   (a)   General. All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire, actuate
an alarm or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof shall be
maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with the current
adopted International Fire Code.
   (b)   Automatic sprinkler systems. Inspection, testing and maintenance of
automatic sprinkler systems shall be in accordance with NFPA 25.
   (c)   Smoke alarms. Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in Group R or I-1 occupancies, regardless of occupant
load at all of the following locations:
      (1)   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
      (2)   In each room used for sleeping purposes; and
      (3)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level; provided that, the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
   (d)   Power source. In Group R or I-1 occupancies, single-station smoke
alarms shall receive their primary power from the building wiring provided that
such wiring is served from a commercial source and shall be equipped with a
battery backup. Smoke alarms shall emit a signal when the batteries are low.
Wiring shall be permanent and without a disconnecting switch other than as
required for overcurrent protection. Exception: smoke alarms are permitted to
be solely battery operated in buildings where no construction is taking place,
buildings that are not served from a commercial power source and in existing
areas of buildings undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the
removal of interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless
there is an attic, crawl space or basement available.
   (e)   Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in Group R or I-1 occupancies, the
smoke alarms shall be interconnected in such a manner that the activation of
one alarm will activate all of the alarms in the individual unit. Physical
interconnection of smoke alarms shall not be required where listed wireless
alarms are installed and all alarms sound upon activation of one alarm. The
alarm shall be clearly audible in all bedrooms over background noise levels
with all intervening doors closed. Exceptions:
      (1)   Interconnection is not required in buildings which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind; and
      (2)   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER FIVE: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODES
ARTICLE 1741: VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION PROGRAM
Section
   
1741.01   Purpose
   
1741.02   Definitions
   
1741.03   Compliance
   
1741.04   Applicability
   
1741.05   Inspections
   
1741.06   Corrective action
   
1741.07   Registration generally
   
1741.08   Right of appeal
   
1741.09   Amending information
   
1741.10   Reinspection
   
1741.11   Non-payment of fees; liens
   
1741.12   Relation to other codes and laws
§ 1741.01 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The town has determined that an uninspected and unmonitored vacant
building may present a fire hazard, may provide temporary occupancy by
transients (including drug users and traffickers), may detract from private
and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings and
that the health, safety and welfare of the public is served by the regulation
of such vacant buildings.
   (b)   Owners of uninspected and unmonitored vacant buildings shall register
such vacant buildings with the town, make payment of a fee for the registration
thereof and otherwise conform to these vacant building regulations.
   (c)   This article ensures that, through a registration, inspection and
monitoring process, vacant buildings will be kept weather-tight and secure from
trespassers, will provide safe entry to police officers and firefighters in
times of emergency, will not impede private and/or public efforts to
rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings and will not present otherwise a
public hazard.
   (d)   The town, by and through its departments, shall inspect and monitor
vacant buildings, shall assess the effects of the condition of those buildings
on nearby structures and shall promote substantial efforts to rehabilitate and
develop such buildings, when appropriate.
   (e)   These provisions will streamline and consolidate the existing
procedure (that is complaint, research, notification , inspection, orders,
fines, liens, appeals and due process lien enforcement), by placing the
responsibility to register and maintain vacant structures on the building owner
before a building’s condition falls into disrepair or otherwise merits a
complaint.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them as follows.
   BOARDED. A building or structure subject to the provision of this section
shall be deemed to be BOARDED if in place of one or more exterior doors, other
than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets of
plywood or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS. The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, windows, doors, roof and other parts of the exterior of the
building and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof, the
electrical and plumbing systems, the water supply system, the sewer system and
the sidewalk, driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced
by the code enforcement officer, particularly in connection with codes adopted
by the town as well as all applicable local, state and federal laws.
   OCCUPIED. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be occupied if one or
more persons actually conducts a lawful business or resides in all or any part
of the building as the licensed business occupant, or as the legal or equitable
owner-occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis, or any
combination of the same. For purposes of this section, evidence offered to
prove that a building is so OCCUPIED may include, but shall not be limited to,
the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U.S. Postal
Service; proof of continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water and sewer
services; a valid town business license, or the most recent, federal, state or
town income tax statements indicating that the subject property is the official
business or residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy; or
proof of bona fide pre-rental inspection.
   OPEN. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this section
shall be deemed to be OPEN if any one or more exterior doors other than a storm
door is broken, open and/or closed, but without a properly functioning lock to
secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being locked
and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
   OWNER. An owner of the freehold of the premises or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lesse, agent or any other person, firm or corporation that
is directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to the provisions of
this section, and as set forth below.
   VACANT. A building or structure shall be deemed to be vacant if no person or
persons actually, currently conducts a lawfully licensed business, or lawfully
resides, dwells, or lives in any part of the building as the legal or equitable
owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or owner-occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a
permanent, non-transient basis. A building or structure shall be deemed VACANT
and subject to the registration and possible penalty provisions provided herein
if the exterior maintenance and major systems of the building and the
surrounding real property thereof, as defined in this section, are in violation
of the building codes or health and sanitation codes and if there is not proof
of continual utility service evidencing actual use of electric, gas (such as,
applicable heating sources), water service and the like. “Continued” is meant
to be without more than one 30-day interruption in any given 360-day period. In
order for such continual utility service to be considered as being actually in
use as described in this section, it must be more than merely registered to the
owner for purposes of billing and must be utilized, at a minimum, in order to
keep the property and the major systems of the building in compliance with
building and safety codes. The person or entity asserting that there has been
continued utility service has the burden to produce actual bills evidencing
utility service for the relevant period.
§ 1741.03 COMPLIANCE.
   All vacant structures shall also comply with the following criteria.
   (a)   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-cultivated
gardens maintained at no more than 17 inches of growth. All noxious weeds are
prohibited. Structure is to be broom swept and cleared of all contents, not
including building materials or components to be used in the future renovation
at that structure.
   (b)   Electrical service is to be provided to the building via temporary
pole service on the exterior of the structure or create a permanent service for
the structure and install two GFCI-protected receptacles.
   (c)   NEC and OSHA compliant string lighting is to be provided to the entire
structure so that it may be illuminated as needed to view the structure.
   (d)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed. Unstable or unsound accessory buildings are to be razed or renovated.
   (e)   Using wood sheet goods; all loose, deteriorated and broken windows and
doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling and to prevent
the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such wood sheet goods are to be cut and
neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening.
   (f)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter or overhang extensions (masonry
or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent falling.
   (g)   Regular routine monitoring of the structure is to occur by the owner
to ensure that the building is being kept in compliance with the above items.
   (h)   Utilities need to be connected to the structure.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The requirements of this article shall be applicable to each owner of
any building that is found to be vacant pursuant to the language contained
herein. Each such owner shall cause to be filed a notarized registration
statement, which shall include the street address and parcel number of each
such vacant building, the names and addresses of all owners, as hereinafter
described, and any other information deemed necessary by the code enforcement
officer. The registration fee(s) as required by this section shall be billed by
the town and shall be paid by last day of the month when the property has been
registered.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the following shall also be applicable:
      (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   If an estate, the name and business address of the executor of the
estate;
      (3)   If a trust, the name and address of all trustee, grantors and
beneficiaries;
      (4)   If a partnership, the names and residence addresses of all partners
with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (5)   If any other form of unincorporated association/the names and
residence addresses of all principals with an interest of 10% or greater; and
      (6)   If an individual person, the name and residence address of that
individual person.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.05 INSPECTIONS.
   At the time of registration, the code enforcement officer, Fire Chief and
Police Chief shall determine whether it is necessary for any or all of them to
inspect the structure so as to identify any public safety issues needing
addressed. Inspections shall also be available to verify the status of any
property concerning occupancy, vacancy and the like. If an internal inspection
be deemed necessary, the owner will be notified of the same and arrangements
made for the same. If the owner fails or refuses to consent to and arrange for
an inspection, the town will seek a search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, which shall include the Municipal Court, to authorize inspection
of the premises for the purpose of determining the structural integrity of the
building, the repairs necessary to ensure its structural integrity and that it
will be safe for entry by firefighters and police officers in time of emergency
and that the building and its contents do not present a hazard to the public
during the time that the building remains vacant.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.06 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   The property owners shall be notified in writing at the address provided for
property tax purposes of any corrective action deemed necessary for Life,
Safety and Building Code matters by town officials, the applicable code
provisions or regulations, and will be afforded a reasonable time to the
corrective action. Corrective action concerning the occupancy of vacant
structures shall be discussed later herein.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.07 REGISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (a)   General. At the time of adoption of this article, all owners of realty
within the Town of Nutter Fort that contain a vacant structure, as defined
above, shall register the same with the office of code enforcement of the town.
For those structures that qualify as a vacant structure, and after the adoption
of this article, the owner thereof shall be required to register the structure
with the code enforcement office within 30 days after the structure is found to
meet the definition of a vacant structure. The registration form shall require
information from the registrant deemed necessary by the code enforcement
officer, Fire Chief and Police Chief of the town, so as to ensure that the
purpose of this article is met. Specifically, the above named town officers
shall have the authority to require that the property owner provide a
professional opinion from a design professional such as an architect or an
engineer, to determine the structural integrity of the building, the repairs
necessary to ensure its structural integrity and that it will be safe for entry
by firefighters or police officers in time of emergency, and that the building
and its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the time the
building remains vacant. The above named officers shall have the authority to
issue orders to the owner for corrective action deemed necessary, the code
enforcement officer, fire inspector and Fire Chief shall rely upon the West
Virginia State Building Code and Fire Code, as well as other applicable law,
for guidance during any such structural review.
   (b)   Registration statement and fees; local agent. If none of the persons
listed, as above, is shown at an address within the state, the registration
statement shall provide the name and address of a person who resides within the
state and who is authorized to accept service of process on behalf of the
owners and who shall be designated as a responsible, local party or agent, both
for purposes of notification in the event of an emergency affecting the public
health, safety or welfare and for purposes of service of any and all notices or
registration statements as herein authorized and in connection herewith.
Registration shall be required for all vacant buildings, whether vacant and
secure, vacant and open or vacant and boarded, and shall be required whenever
any building has remained vacant for 45 consecutive days or more. In no
instance shall the registration of a vacant building and the payment of
registration fees be construed to exonerate the owner, agent or responsible
party for compliance with any other Building Code or Housing Code requirement.
one registration statement may be filed to include all vacant buildings of the
owner so registering, but each structure constitutes a separate fee. The owner
of the vacant property as of the last day of the month when the property has
been registered of each calendar year shall be responsible for the payment of
the non-refundable registration fee. Said fee shall be billed by the town and
based on the duration of the vacancy as determine by the following scale:
      (1)   No fee for properties that are vacant for less than one year;
      (2)   One hundred dollars per month for properties that are vacant for at
least one year, but less than two years;
      (3)   Two hundred dollars per month for properties that are vacant for at
least two years, but less than three years;
      (4)   Three hundred dollars per month for properties that are vacant for
at least three years, but less than four years;
      (5)   Four hundred dollars per month for properties that are vacant for
at least four years, but less than five years; and
      (6)   Five hundred dollars per month for properties that are vacant for
at least five years and for each month in excess of five years.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013; Ord. passed 9-10-2019)
§ 1741.08 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (a)   Appeal rights. The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition
of the registration fees to the code enforcement officer, upon filing an
application in writing to that Department no later than 15 calendar days after
the date of the billing statement. On appeal, the owner shall bear the burden
of providing satisfactory objective proof of occupancy, as defined in this
article specifically.
   (b)   One-time waiver of registration fee. A one-time waiver of the
registration fee, or an extension of a waiver for up to 90 days from the date
of the current billing statement, may be granted by the code enforcement
officer or his or her designee upon application of the owner, if the owner:
      (1)   Demonstrates with satisfactory proof to the code enforcement
officer or his or her designee that he or she is in the process of demolition,
rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
      (2)   Objectively demonstrates to the code enforcement officer or his or
her designee a reasonable anticipated length of time for the demolition,
rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
      (3)   Provides satisfactory proof to the code enforcement officer or his
or her designee that he or she was actively attempting to sell or lease the
property during the vacancy period; or
      (4)   Provides satisfactory proof to the code enforcement officer, to be
evaluated on a case-by-case basis, that the vacancy is temporary and may be due
to illness of the owner, active military service or some other reasonable
explanation believed to be short term in nature and documentable as necessary.
   (c)   Grant or denial. Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as possible,
after the waiver application is received the code enforcement officer or his or
her designee shall grant or deny the waiver, or request for extension, in
writing, and give notice of the written decision by mail to the owner. If the
owner properly submitted an application for a one-time waiver or request for
extension to the code enforcement officer or his or her designee, and the code
enforcement officer or his or her designee rendered a decision which the owner
seeks to appeal to the Building Code Appeals Board, the owner must file an
application in writing no later than 30 calendar days from the date of the code
enforcement officer or his or her designee’s decision. The Building Code
Appeals Board shall either grant or deny the appeal, thereafter the decision of
the Building Code Appeals Board’s final unless, within 30 days of such
decision, the owner appeals for injunctive relief to the Circuit Court of
Harrison County.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.09 AMENDING INFORMATION.
   (a)   Duty to amend registration statement. If the status of the
registration information changes during the course of any calendar year, it is
the responsibility of the owner, responsible party or agent for the same to
contact the Department of Licenses and Inspections with 30 days of the
occurrence of such change and advise the Department in writing of those
changes.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any building owned by the
United States, the State of West Virginia, the town or any of their respective
agencies or political subdivisions.
   (c)   Violations and penalties for failure to register. The failure or
refusal for any reason of any owner, or agent of an owner acting on behalf of
the owner, to register a vacant building upon adoption of this section or to
pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this section,
within 30 days after they become due, shall constitute a violation punishable
upon conviction thereof by a fine in the amount of not less than $100, nor more
than $500, for each failure or refusal to pay a required vacant building fee,
as applicable. In such cases, whenever the minimum fine of $300 is imposed, it
shall not be subject to suspension or reduction for any reason.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.10 REINSPECTION.
   All vacant structures are subject to reinspection on an annual base or as
deemed necessary pursuant to §
1741.05 of this article.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.11 NON-PAYMENT OF FEES; LIENS.
   (a)   After the owner is given notice of the amount of the registration fee
due, except for those owners that have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to
§
1741.08 of this article, and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said amount
shall constitute a debt due and owing to the town and the town may commence a
civil action to collect such unpaid debt.
   (b)   “Lien” or “liens”, as used in this section, shall arise whenever the
fees and charges as described in this section are levied or imposed.
   (c)   If an owner fails to pay the registration fee as assessed and the town
begins the collection action to enforce its lien, then the code enforcement
officer shall post the written notice on the property and send the written
notice to the owner(s) by certified and regular mail.
   (d)   The town may take action to sell the subject property by means of
forfeiture to collect the debt owed the town, according to law. Should the town
take the steps necessary to sell the subject property, the town shall do so,
subject to all liens and real and personal property taxes that are due.
Purchasers of the subject property shall be similarly responsible for
registration pursuant to this section in the same manner as the prior owner and
must begin the registration process anew if said property remains vacant.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
§ 1741.12 RELATION TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS.
   The intent and purpose of this article are separate and distinct from other
parts and sections of the codified ordinances of the Town of Nutter Fort and
the general laws of the State of West Virginia, which may also be applicable.
The provisions of this article are applicable to the owners of such vacant
buildings, as set forth herein, and are in addition to and not in lieu of any
and all other applicable provisions of this article, the Health and Sanitation
Code and any other applicable provisions of the Town of Nutter Fort codified
ordinances of the town.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2013)
ARTICLE 1745: SIGNS
Section
   
1745.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 1745.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s regulations concerning signs, and any and all amendments thereto,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 4-24-2007; Ord. passed 10-23-2012)
ARTICLE 1749: 911 ADDRESSING AND MAPPING
Section
   
1749.01   Applicability
   
1749.02   Coordination with county addressing program; adoption; penalties
   
1749.03   Appointment and duties of Coordinator
   
1749.04   Interpretation and application
§ 1749.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The provisions of this article apply to all areas of the Town of
Nutter Fort, except as may be expressly set forth below.
   (b)   Pursuant to the emergency rules of the West Virginia Statewide
Addressing and Mapping Board on file with the office of the Secretary of State,
Title 169, Series 2 of the Code of State Rules, the Town of Nutter Fort hereby
elects to participate in the West Virginia Statewide Addressing and Mapping
Project.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2004)
§ 1749.02 COORDINATION WITH COUNTY ADDRESSING PROGRAM; ADOPTION; PENALTIES.
   (a)   All provisions of the 911 Addressing and Mapping Ordinance of the
Harrison County Commission, dated 9-23-2004, including the penalties for non-
compliance, hereby apply within the Town of Nutter Fort, as fully set forth
herein, except as set forth in subsection (b) below.
   (b)   Nothing in this article affects existing town-type addresses, which
are satisfactory for 911 and emergency services purposes, provided that those
addresses are consistent with the Statewide Addressing and Mapping Project and
otherwise comply with the Rules and Regulations of the West Virginia Statewide
Addressing and Mapping Board.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2004)
§ 1749.03 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF COORDINATOR.
   The Addressing and Mapping Coordinator for the Town of Nutter Fort shall
cooperate with the Harrison County Addressing and Mapping Coordinator, West
Virginia Statewide Mapping and Addressing Board, the Board’s Project Manager,
the Harrison County 9-1-1 Director, the West Virginia Enhanced 9-1-1 Council,
the Harrison County Assessor’s Office, municipal corporations within Harrison
County, the United States Postal Service and other interested agencies and
persons in order to accomplish, within the Town of Nutter Fort, town-type
addressing and other systems essential to the prompt and accurate dispatch of
emergency service providers or other emergency services or 911 purposes, and
for such other goals of the West Virginia Statewide Addressing and Mapping
Project; provided, however, that, the Addressing and Mapping Coordinator for
the Town of Nutter Fort shall coordinate with other agencies and persons
principally through the Harrison County Addressing and Mapping Coordinator for
purposes of the implementation of the West Virginia Statewide Addressing and
Mapping Project within the Town of Nutter Fort. The Addressing and Mapping
Coordinator of the Town of Nutter Fort may not take any official action not
expressly authorized in this article or in the 911 Addressing and Mapping
Ordinance of Harrison County, dated 9-23-2004, without the approval of the
Council of the Town of Nutter Fort.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2004)
§ 1749.04 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   This article is to be interpreted and applied consistent with the West
Virginia Statewide Addressing and Mapping System. The Addressing and Mapping
Coordinator of the Town of Nutter Fort shall make any necessary application to
the Statewide Addressing and Mapping Board for a waiver, or for local
modifications of the Statewide Addressing and Mapping System in order to tailor
it to this article.
(Ord. passed 12-14-2004)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W.Va. Code Cites Code Section
W.Va. Code Cites      Code Section
Const. Art. X         1525.11
2-2-5                 101.06
2-2-8                 101.04
2-2-9                 101.04
2-2-10                101.02;
                      101.03
2-2-11                101.04
3-1-1 et seq.         Art. 501
3-1-2a                Art. 105
3-1-6                 Art. 105
3-1-27                Art. 105
3-2                   105.02
3-3-13                Art. 105
3-5-13(4)(A)          105.10
3-6-2(d)(2)           105.10 
3-6-9                 105.11
3-6-10                105.11
5-15-5                371.08
5-16-13               157.22
6-2-11                Art. 157
6-9                   Art. 137
6-9A                  Art. 121;
                      Art. 1349
6B-1-1 et seq.        111.01
6B-1-1 through 6B-1-5 111.01
6B-2-5                111.01
6B-2-6                111.01
6B-2-7                111.01
6B-3                  111.01
7-1-3n                1378.01
7-1-3u                1378.06
7-1-3v                1378.01
7-1-3kk               1378.01
7-18                  Art. 773;
                      781.09
7-22-1 et seq.        781.09
8-1-5a                502.01,
                      781.01
                      Art. 121;
8-5-7                 Art. 131;
                      Art. 133
                      Art. 121;
8-5-8                 Art. 131;
                      Art. 133
                      Art. 121;
8-5-9                 Art. 131;
                      Art. 133
                      Art. 121;
8-5-10                Art. 131;
                      Art. 133
8-5-12                Art. 123;
                      Art. 157
8-5-13                Art. 105;
                      105.02
8-5-15a               Art. 105
8-5-19                Art. 111;
                      Art. 157
8-5A                  781.09
8-9                   Art. 121
8-9-2                 Art. 131;
                      Art. 133
8-10-1                Art. 131;
                      Art. 139
8-10-1a               Art. 135
8-10-2                Art. 171
8-10-2b               502.05
8-10-3                Art. 131;
                      Art. 133
8-11-1                Art. 101;
                      Art. 123
8-11-2                Art. 123
8-11-3                Art. 123
8-11-4                Art. 123
8-11-4(a)(2)          909.04
8-11-4(b)             Art. 101
8-12                  Art. 121
8-12-2                Art. 135
8-12-2(11)            Art. 101
8-12-5(1) et seq.     Art. 905
8-12-5(3)             Art. 311
8-12-5(10), (23)      Art. 519
8-12-5(10) et seq.    Art. 951
8-12-5(15)            Art. 1521
8-12-5(16)            Art. 545
8-12-5(17)            Art. 517
8-12-5(18)            Art. 517
8-12-5(19)            Art. 517
8-12-5(19), (44)      Art. 509
8-12-5(20)            Art. 521
8-12-5(21)            Art. 333
8-12-5(26)            Art. 505
8-12-5(27)            Art. 505
8-12-5(30)            Art. 1325
8-12-5(31)            Art. 533
8-12-5(32)            Art. 925
8-12-5(37)            Art. 955
8-12-5(45)            Art. 121
8-12-5(46)            Art. 157
8-12-5(47)            Art. 157
8-12-5(53)            Art. 157
8-12-5(55)            Art. 157
8-12-5(56)            Art. 141
                      Art. 101;
8-12-5(57)            Art. 123;
                      Art. 501
8-12-5a               Art. 545
8-12-7 et seq.        Art. 157
8-12-10               Art. 109;
                      Art. 137
8-12-14               1378.01
                      Art. 501;
8-13-4                Art. 741;
                      Art. 765
                      Art. 501;
8-13-5                Art. 745;
                      761.07
8-13-5a               Art. 761
8-13-6                781.09
                      Art. 749;
8-13-7                Art. 753;
                      753.01
8-13-10               Art. 505
                      Art. 913;
8-13-13               Art. 955 ;
                      1525.01
                      Art. 137;
8-13-15 et seq.       Art. 501;
                      Art. 745
8-13-17 et seq.       Art. 137
8-13-23               Art. 137
8-13C                 781.12
8-13C-1 et seq.       781.01
                      781.11;
8-13C-6               781.12;
                      781.13
8-13C-7               781.11
8-13C-11              781.11
8-14-1                Art. 139
8-14-1 et seq.        131.01
8-14-2                Art. 139
8-14-2a               Art. 139
8-14-3                Art. 139
8-14-5                Art. 139
8-14-5a               Art. 139
8-14-6 et seq.        Art. 139
8-15-1                Art. 141
8-15-3                Art. 141
8-15-4 et seq.        Art. 141
8-15-9 et seq.        Art. 141
8-15-11 et seq.       Art. 141
8-16-1                144.03
8-17                  Art. 905
8-17-4 et seq.        Art. 149
8-17-10               Art. 149
8-17-11               Art. 149
8-18                  Art. 905
8-18-5                Art. 149
8-19                  Art. 925
8-19-13               Art. 925
8-21-10               955.07
                      Art. 139;
8-22                  Art. 141;
                      Art. 157
8-33                  Art. 144
8-38-1 et seq.        781.09
8A-1-2                Art. 1305
8A-2-1                Art. 143;
                      Art. 171
8A-2-1 et seq.        Art. 143
8A-3-8                Art. 143
8A-3-11               1353.01
8A-4-2                1378.01
8A-5-1                Art. 143
8A-5-7                1378.01
8A-7-1                Art. 143;
                      Art. 1301
8A-7-2                1378.01
8A-7-3                Art. 1309
8A-7-8 et seq.        Art. 1353
8A-7-10               Art. 1341;
                      Art. 1353
8A-8-1 et seq.        Art. 1349
8A-8-1                1349.01
8A-8-9                1349.03
8A-9-1                Art. 1349;
                      1349.04
8A-10-1               Art. 1345
8A-10-2               Art. 1345
8A-10-3               Art. 1345;
                      Art. 1349
8A-11-2               Art. 1309
10-2                  Art. 955
10-2A                 Art. 955
11                    521.03
11-1-1                781.02
11-3-3a               1382.01
11-3-3A               1378.02;
                      1384.03
11-6                  Art. 749
                      781.02;
11-9                  781.13;
                      781.14
                      781.02;
11-10                 781.12;
                      781.14
11-10-5               769.01
11-10-11c             781.11
11-12-4               Art. 501;
                      Art. 741
11-13                 Art. 501;
                      Art. 745
11-14-c               781.07
                      781.02;
                      781.03;
11-15                 781.07;
                      781.09;
                      781.14
                      781.02;
11-15-a               781.04;
                      781.14
                      781.02;
11-15-b               781.04;
                      781.14
11-15-b-2             781.03
11-15-1 et seq.       781.01
11-15-3c              781.07
11-15A                781.09
11-15A-1 et seq.      781.01
11-15B-1 et seq.      781.01
11-15B-2              781.03
11-15B-33             781.11
11-15B-34             781.06
11-15B-35             781.10
                      Art. 521;
11-16                 521.07;
                      757.14
11-16-17              Art. 749
11-16-18              521.07
11-16-19              521.08;
                      521.99
13                    1378.06
13 et seq.            1378.06
14-2A-4               Art. 171
15-2-17 et seq.       Art. 501
15-5                  Art. 107
16-1                  929.02
16-9-3                Art. 505
16-13-11              145.05
16-13-18              Art. 145
16-13-18a             Art. 145
16-18                 153.01;
                      153.06
16-18-4               153.05
17                    303.01
17-24                 303.07
17-24A                Art. 519
17-24A-3              303.07
17-24A-5 et seq.      Art. 303
17-A                  351.01;
                      351.04
17A                   955.06
17A-1-1(ii)           553.06
17A-3-1               351.01
17A-3-13              351.02
17A-3-15              351.03
17B                   955.06
17B-2-1               351.06
17B-2-2               351.07
17B-2-7b              351.06
17B-2-9               351.08
17B-4-3               351.10
17B-4-4               351.10
17C                   955.06
17C-1-1               301.01
17C-1-2               301.47
17C-1-3               301.17
17C-1-4               301.15
17C-1-5               301.16
17C-1-5a              301.14
17C-1-6               301.02
17C-1-7               301.34
17C-1-8               301.03
17C-1-12              301.46
17C-1-13              301.04
17C-1-15              301.45 
17C-1-16              301.36
17C-1-17              301.23
17C-1-21              301.26
17C-1-22              301.28
17C-1-24              301.09
17C-1-25              301.10
17C-1-26              301.11
17C-1-29              301.22
17C-1-30              301.21
17C-1-31              301.08
17C-1-32              301.18
17C-1-33              301.24
17C-1-35              301.40
17C-1-36              301.25
17C-1-37              301.32
17C-1-38              301.36
17C-1-39              301.13
17C-1-40              301.41
17C-1-41              301.06
17C-1-42              301.12
17C-1-43              301.07
17C-1-44              301.33
17C-1-45              301.05
17C-1-46              301.29
17C-1-47              301.43
17C-1-48              301.44
17C-1-49              301.27
17C-1-50              301.41
17C-1-51              301.31
17C-1-52              301.38
17C-1-53              301.39
17C-1-54              301.19
17C-1-55              301.35
17C-1-60              301.20
17C-1-62              301.30
17C-2-1               303.02
17C-2-3(c)            303.03
17C-2-5               303.05
17C-2-6               303.06
17C-2-7               Art. 303
17C-2-8               Art. 303;
                      Art. 335
17C-2-8(a)(1)         Art. 361
17C-2-8(a)(2)         Art. 313
17C-2-8(a)(3)         Art. 311
17C-2-8(a)(6)         Art. 341;
                      Art. 343
17C-2-8(a)(7)         Art. 347
17C-2-8(a)(8)         Art. 373
17C-2-8(a)(9)         Art. 339
17C-2-8(b)            Art. 313
17C-2-8(c)            Art. 313
17C-2-8(4)            Art. 337
17C-3-2               Art. 313
17C-3-3               Art. 313
17C-3-4               313.01
17C-3-4a              313.02
17C-3-4b              313.08
17C-3-5               313.03
17C-3-6               313.04
17C-3-7               313.05
17C-3-9               313.07
17C-4-1               331.01
17C-4-2               331.02
17C-4-3               331.03
17C-4-4               331.04
17C-4-5               331.05
17C-4-6               331.06
17C-4-8               331.07
17C-4-12              331.08
17C-4-15              Art. 331
17C-5-2               333.01
17C-5-2a              333.01
17C-5-3               333.02
17C-5-11a             Art. 333
17C-5A                Art. 333
17C-5A-3a             333.01
17C-6-3               Art. 335
17C-6-3(a)            Art. 335
17C-6-3a(a)           335.02
17C-6-4               335.03
17C-6-4 et seq.       Art. 335
17C-6-5               335.03
17C-6-7               Art. 335
17C-6-8(a)            335.04
17C-7-1               337.01
17C-7-2               337.02
17C-7-3               337.03
17C-7-4               337.04
17C-7-5               337.05
17C-7-6               337.06
17C-7-7               337.07
17C-7-8(b), (c)       337.08
17C-7-9               337.09
17C-7-10              337.10
17C-7-11              337.11
17C-7-12              337.12
17C-8-1               339.01
17C-8-2               339.02
17C-8-3               339.02
17C-8-4               339.04
17C-8-5               Art. 339;
                      339.05
17C-8-6               339.06;
                      349.13
17C-8-7               339.07
17C-8-8               339.08
17C-8-9               339.09
17C-8-10              339.10
17C-9-1               341.01
17C-9-2               341.02;
                      351.04
17C-9-3               341.03;
                      351.05
17C-9-4               341.04
17C-9-5               341.05
17A-10-1              301.02
17C-10-1(a)           371.01
17C-10-2              371.02
17C-10-3              371.03
17C-10-4              371.04
17C-10-5              371.05
17C-10-6              371.06
17C-10-8              371.07
17C-11-1              373.01
17C-11-2              373.02
17C-11-3              373.03
17C-11-4              373.04
17C-11-5              373.05
17C-11-6              373.06
17C-11-7              373.07
17C-11A-1             373.07
17C-12-1              343.01
17C-12-2              343.02;
                      343.04
17C-12-4              343.04
17C-12-5              Art. 341;
                      343.05
17C-12-6              343.06
17C-12-7              343.07
17C-12-8              343.07
17C-13-1              361.01
17C-13-2              361.02
17C-13-3              361.03
17C-13-4              Art. 361
17C-13-6              361.06
17C-14-1              349.01
17C-14-2              349.01
17C-14-4              349.03
17C-14-5              349.04
17C-14-6              349.05
17C-14-9              349.06
17C-14-10             349.07
17C-14-11             311.01
17C-14-13             361.04
17C-15                303.07
17C-15-3              345.03
17C-15-4              345.04
17C-15-5              345.05
17C-15-13             Art. 345
17C-15-14             345.06
17C-15-15             345.07
17C-15-16             345.08
17C-15-17             345.09
17C-15-18             345.10
17C-15-19             345.11
17C-15-20             345.11
17C-15-21             345.13
17C-15-22             345.14
17C-15-23             345.14
17C-15-24             345.16
17C-15-25             345.17
17C-15-26             301.02
17C-15-31             345.19
17C-15-32             345.20
17C-15-33             345.20
17C-15-34             345.22
17C-15-35             345.23
17C-15-36             345.23
17C-15-36a            345.34
17C-15-37             345.25
17C-15-38             345.26
17C-15-39             Art. 345
17C-15-41             345.27
17C-15-42             345.28
17C-15-44             345.29
17C-15-45             345.29
17C-15-46             345.31
17C-15-48             345.33
17C-15-49             345.35
17C-16                345.31;
                      345.33
17C-16-9              345.31
17C-17                347.01;
                      347.03
17C-17-2              347.03
17C-17-2(b)           Art. 347
17C-17-3              347.02
17C-17-4              347.03
17C-17-5              347.03
17C-17-6              347.04
17C-17-7              347.05
17C-17-11b            347.03
17D-2A                349.20
17E-1                 Art. 353;
                      353.01
17E-1-3               353.01
17E-1-4               353.02
17E-1-5               353.03
17E-1-6               353.03
17E-1-9(e)            353.01
17E-1-14              353.06
17E-1-15              353.06
17E-1-25              353.99
18-2A-9               Art. 501
19-7-8                Art. 513
19-9                  Art. 505
19-20                 Art. 505
19-20-2               505.14
19-20A                Art. 505
19-23-9               Art. 513
20-2                  Art. 505
21-11-3(c)            1378.06
21-9                  Art. 1325
21-9-4                1382.06
21-11-10              1384.03
23-4-1                157.28
24-2-4(b)             Art. 925
24-3-8                Art. 925
27-5                  521.99
27-6A                 521.99
29-3                  545.10
29-3-5b               1705.01
29-3-16a              1729.05
29-3-21               501.03
29-3A                 Art. 141;
                      Art. 1521
29-3E-2(13)           545.10
29-3E-6               545.10
30-13                 Art. 149
30-29-1               501.05;
                      545.03
30-29-4               Art. 171
47A                   745.30
49-1-202              Art. 525
49-4-903              Art. 525
49-4-904              Art. 525
49-4-701              Art. 525
49-4-701 et seq.      545.05
50-1                  131.01
55-7A-2               525.03
55-9                  Art. 513
59-3                  144.06
59-3-1 et seq.        123.02
                      501.10;
60                    521.01;
                      521.03;
                      521.04
                      333.01;
60A                   501.10;
                      521.04;
                      Art. 529
60-1-5                521.01
60-1-5a               521.11
60-3                  753.01
60-3-22               521.04
60-3-22a              521.05;
                      521.99
60-3A-1 et seq.       745.18
60-3A-24              521.13;
                      521.99
60-5                  Art. 521
60-6                  521.03
60-6-5                521.02
60-6-7                521.03
60-6-8                521.04
60-6-9                521.06;
                      521.99
60-6-18               Art. 521
                      521.07;
60-7                  521.09;
                      Art. 753;
                      753.01
60-7-2                757.01
60-7-3                757.02;
                      757.11
60-7-7                Art. 749;
                      Art. 753
60-7-12               521.09;
                      521.99
60-7-12a              521.10;
                      521.99
                      521.07;
60-8                  521.11;
                      753.01;
                      765.01
60-8-20               521.11
60-8-20a              521.12;
                      521.99
60A-1-101(e)          545.01
60A-1-101(m)          545.01
61                    Art. 501;
                      501.10
61-1-9                501.05;
                      501.99
61-2                  Art. 529
61-2-9                529.01
61-2-15               529.01
61-2-26               525.04
61-3                  Art. 533
61-3-13               533.03
61-3-18               533.04
61-3-30               533.05
61-3-44               533.06
61-3-45               533.06
61-3A-1               533.01
61-3A-2               533.01
61-3A-3               533.01
61-3A-4               533.01
61-3A-5               533.01
61-3A-6               533.01
61-3B-1               533.02
61-3B-2               533.02
61-3B-3               533.02
61-5                  Art. 501
61-5-14               501.01;
                      501.99
61-5A                 Art. 501
61-6                  Art. 509
61-6-14a              509.02
61-6-16               509.01;
                      509.99
61-6-17               501.04;
                      501.99
61-6-20               501.08
61-6-22               509.03
61-7                  Art. 545;
                      545.03
61-7-1                533.02
61-7-2                545.01
61-7-3                545.02
61-7-4 et seq.        545.02
61-7-5                Art. 139
61-7-6                545.03
61-7-7                545.04
61-7-8                545.05
61-7-9                545.06
61-7-10               545.07
61-7-11               545.08
61-8-5                517.01
61-8-6                517.02
61-8-7                517.03
61-8-8                517.04
61-8-15               517.05
61-8-16               517.06
61-8-19               505.99
61-8-19a              505.02;
                      505.99
61-8A                 517.09
61-8B-10              517.07
61-8D-10              Art. 525
61-9                  Art. 517
61-10                 Art. 513
61-10-1               513.01
61-10-2               513.02
61-10-3               513.03
61-10-4               513.04
61-10-5               513.05
61-10-6               513.06
61-10-9               513.07
61-10-10              513.08
61-10-11              513.09
61-10-15              Art. 501
61-10-22              Art. 501
61-11-8               501.06
62                    501.10
62-1-5(a)             501.07
62-11A-1 et seq.      333.01
62-11B                333.01
63                    501.10
64                    501.10
Title 87              1705.01
87-4-1 et seq.        1705.01
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
-        2-28-2006      1391.01
-        1-12-2010      333.02
-        4-23-2019      1705.01
2021-05  - -            171.11
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
-           - -         311.03
-           - -         373.07
-           2-23-1960   145.01—
                        145.06
-           1-9-1968    905.01
-           4-23-1968   757.01—
                        757.14
-           8-27-1968   144.01—
                        144.08
                        761.01—
-           5-11-1971   761.07;
                        761.99
                        745.01;
                        745.03—
                        745.18;
-           6-30-1971   745.20—
                        745.24;
                        745.26—
                        745.31
-           9-13-1972   905.08
-           6-12-1973   505.07—
                        505.14
-           7-1-1976    745.26—
                        745.31
                        951.01—
-           9-20-1977   951.03,
                        951.09,
                        951.11
                        1301.01—
                        1301.05;
                        1305.01;
                        1309.01—
                        1309.04;
                        1309.06;
                        1309.07;
                        1309.09;
                        1313.01—
                        1313.06;
                        1317.01—
-           2-14-1978   1317.03;
                        1321.01—
                        1321.03;
                        1325.01—
                        1325.03;
                        1341.01—
                        1341.03;
                        1345.01—
                        1345.06;
                        1349.01—
                        1349.03;
                        1353.01—
                        1353.06
                        105.06;
-           6-23-1981   105.10;
                        765.01
-           6-22-1982   741.06
                        1511.01;
-           9-14-1982   1511.02;
                        1511.99
-           1-11-1983   745.32
-           8-23-1983   753.01
-           11-8-1983   361.14
-           2-14-1984   137.01—
                        137.03
                        909.01—
-           4-24-1984   909.07;
                        925.02
                        773.01—
-           9-10-1985   773.07;
                        773.99
-           9-24-1985   171.10
-           1-14-1986   741.06
-           4-8-1986    505.08;
                        505.13
-           6-10-1986   505.06;
                        525.05
-           7-14-1987   171.10
-           8-21-1987   505.05
1989-02     2-28-1989   741.06
1989-04     3-28-1989   709.01—
                        709.04
1989-05     7-25-1989   111.01;
                        111.02
                        1521.01—
1990-04     5-22-1990   1521.08;
                        1521.99
                        745.01—
                        745.05;
1990-05     6-12-1990   745.055;
                        745.06—
                        745.33
-           2-12-1991   757.10
                        745.02;
-           3-26-1991   745.19;
                        745.33;
                        951.03
-           7-23-1991   1345.04
-           8-27-1991   361.15
-           10-8-1991   349.12
-           6-9-1992    105.08
                        147.01—
-           6-23-1992   147.03;
                        171.10
-           9-8-1992    505.99;
                        745.25
-           11-10-1992  745.055
-           6-13-1993   373.07
-           8-24-1993   951.13
-           9-28-1993   121.05
-           10-26-1993  121.05
-           7-26-1994   1131.01;
                        1131.02
                        1305.01;
-           11-8-1994   1325.04;
                        1325.05
1995        2-28-1995   151.01—
                        151.04
-           6-13-1995   347.01
-           7-11-1995   151.01—
                        151.04
-           7-11-1995   151.01—
                        151.04
-           7-25-1995   153.01—
                        153.06
-           11-14-1995  361.16
-           11-28-1995  303.01
-           11-28-1995  501.10
1996-       7-23-1996   741.02
-           9-24-1996   361.18
-           1-14-1997   505.06
-           3-25-1997   105.08
                        951.03—
-           5-13-1997   951.03,
                        951.09,
                        951.11
-           3-24-1998   921.07
-           4-27-1999   347.07
-           5-11-1999   337.13
-           8-10-1999   1349.04
-           8-24-1999   121.05
-           9-28-1999   361.17
-           11-23-1999  137.02
-           3-28-2000   361.17
-           8-8-2000    105.08
2001        3-27-2001   745.04
-           7-10-2001   109.01
                        713.01—
-           8-14-2001   713.03;
                        713.99
-           9-11-2001   553.01—
                        553.06
                        519.01—
-           6-10-2003   519.05;
                        519.99
                        1131.01—
-           6-10-2003   1131.04;
                        1131.99
-           11-11-2003  155.01—
                        155.03
-           11-11-2003  155.01—
                        155.03
-           1-20-2004   549.01—
                        549.10
                        1329.01—
-           8-24-2004   1329.04;
                        1329.99
-           9-28-2004   1305.01
-           9-28-2004   1309.02;
                        1309.06
-           12-14-2004  1749.01—
                        1749.04
                        1305.01;
-           7-26-2005   1309.06;
                        1309.09
-           8-8-2005    105.05;
                        105.08
-           9-14-2005   1305.01
-           9-27-2005   1309.06;
                        1309.09
-           11-8-2005   105.02
1141        11-22-2005  929.01—
                        929.10
-           2-7-2006    1309.09
-           2-14-2006   157.22;
                        157.28
                        745.18;
-           2-14-2006   745.27;
                        745.29
-           7-25-2006   157.07
-           7-25-2006   157.22
-           8-8-2006    1705.01—
                        1705.09
-           8-22-2006   769.01;
                        769.02
                        911.01—
-           10-10-2006  911.11;
                        911.99
-           11-14-2006  1705.10
                        105.10;
-           2-13-2007   1705.04;
                        1705.08
-           2-27-2007   157.07
-           4-24-2007   345.31;
                        1745.01
-           5-22-2007   1705.04;
                        1705.05
-           8-28-2007   137.04;
                        1705.03
-           9-25-2007   1705.04
-           10-23-2007  1705.03
-           12-11-2007  157.24
-           2-12-2008   157.07
-           2-18-2008   157.24
-           4-22-2008   171.10
-           5-27-2008   951.12
-           10-14-2008  1309.03;
                        1309.04
-           10-27-2009  121.04
-           3-10-2010   157.20
-           3-10-2010   1705.08
-           5-11-2010   157.03;
                        745.18
-           8-10-2010   1313.03
-           8-10-2010   1705.11
-           10-12-2010  1135.01—
                        1135.11
-           3-8-2011    741.06
-           10-25-2011  157.19
-           11-22-2011  951.09
-           5-8-2012    141.02—
                        141.04
                        1378.01—
                        1378.06;
                        1380.01—
-           8-28-2012   1380.06;
                        1382.01—
                        1382.06;
                        1384.01—
                        1384.13
-           10-23-2012  1745.01
-           4-9-2013    141.05
-           10-22-2013  1741.01—
                        1741.12
-           12- -2013   147.02
2013:951.06 12-10-2013  951.12
-           6-14-2014   925.01
-           6-16-2014   921.01—
                        921.09
-           11-25-2014  105.05
-           3-10-2015   147.02
-           7-26-2016   109.01
-           1-24-2017   105.08—
                        105.10
                        1709.01—
                        1709.17;
                        1713.01—
                        1713.12;
                        1717.01—
-           3-13-2018   1717.07;
                        1721.01—
                        1721.09;
                        1725.01—
                        1725.09;
                        1729.01—
                        1729.05
                        913.01—
-           6-12-2018   913.07;
                        913.99
-           2-26-2019   105.08—
                        105.12
-           3-12-2019   145.03
-           9-10-2019   1741.07
-           10-8-2019   529.03
2020-01     - -         1709.18
2020-02     8-11-2020   1709.18
                        1705.01;
2020-03     12-8-2020   1705.04;
                        1705.05
2020-04     12-8-2020   781.01—
                        781.15
2020-05     12-8-2020   1709.18
                        502.01—
2021-05     8-10-2021   502.06;
                        502.99
2021-06     8-10-2021   925.01
2021-07     8-10-2021   147.01
2022-01     1-25-2022   921.01—
                        921.03
2022-02     3-22-2022   171.10
2022-03     4-12-2022   745.18
                        1525.01—
2022-04     6-14-2022   1525.12;
                        1525.99
2022-06     4-26-2022   951.12
2022-08     6-28-2022   1705.01
                        951.01—
2022-09     8-23-2022   951.13,
                        951.99
2022-10     12-13-2022  921.01—
                        921.03
2023-01     1-24-2023   925.01
2023-02     4-11-2023   921.01—
                        921.03
2023-03     4-25-2023   157.03
2023-04     6-27-2023   109.01
2023-05     7-11-2023   157.23
2023-06     11-14-2023  145.03
                        777.01—
2023-07     12-12-2023  777.15,
                        777.99
2024-02     3-12-2024   921.01—
                        921.03
2024-04     5-28-2024   157.07
2024-05     6-25-2024   925.01
2024-08     7- -2024    157.07
                       
 
 
 
