TOWN OF OCEANA, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through local ordinance -, passed 2- -2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
DIRECTORY OF TOWN OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF OCEANA, WEST VIRGINIA
Mayor
Towm Evans Jr.
Council Members
Tamera Gallion
Marie Green
Jacob Jones
Dillard Tate
Joetta Walker
Town Recorder
Jim Cook
Town Treasurer
Tami Dishmon
Police Chief
Tyler Dungon
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN SEAL
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation; citation; references
   
10.02   General definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section headings
   
10.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
10.07   Conflicting provisions
   
10.08   Separability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; REFERENCES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town as
revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, subchapters and sections shall be known and designated
as the codified ordinances of the Town of Oceana, West Virginia, for which
designation “codified ordinances” may be substituted. Code, title, chapter,
subchapter and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as
contained in the codified ordinances.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, subchapters and sections
are to such components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified.
Any component code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the
“traffic code”. Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§”
followed by the number, such as “§ 101.01”.
§ 10.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the town.
   COUNTY. Wyoming County, West Virginia.
   LAND or LANDS and REAL ESTATE or REAL PROPERTY. Include lands, tenements and
hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein except chattel
interests.
   LAWS OF THE STATE. Includes the Constitution of the state and the
Constitution of the United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance
thereof.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Oceana, West Virginia.
   OFFENSE. Includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture or
punishment is imposed by law.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER. Includes corporations, societies, associations and
partnerships, and other similar legal business organizations.
   PERSONAL ESTATE or PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes goods, chattels, real and
personal, money, credits, investments and the evidences thereof.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   PRECEDING, SUCCEEDING or FOLLOWING. When used in reference to any section or
sections of a chapter or section means next preceding, next succeeding or next
following that in which such reference is made.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and building.
   PROPERTY or ESTATE. Embraces both real and personal estate.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia or any department, division, commission,
board, educational or other institution of the state.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the town.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises alone or with others.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing, engraving, writing or otherwise. But when the
signature of any person is required, it must be in his or her own proper
handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved or acknowledged.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   (C)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, or if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday it shall also be excluded.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-3)
   (D)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   (E)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (A)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-9)
   (B)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-8)
   (C)   The repeal by any provision of the codified ordinances of an ordinance
validating previous acts, contracts or transactions shall not affect the
validity of such acts, contracts or transactions, but the same shall remain as
valid as if there had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-11)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION HEADINGS.
   (A)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group of sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (C)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters in the series are deemed to be included.
§ 10.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-5)
§ 10.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, articles or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause does not
affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part thereof.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever, in the codified ordinances or in any ordinance of the town, any
act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or
whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise provided,
whoever violates any such provision shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 11: TOWN SEAL
Section
   
11.01   Adoption of seal
§ 11.01 ADOPTION OF SEAL.
   The following seal is hereby adopted as the seal of and for the Town of
Oceana: “TOWN OF OCEANA, W. VA. SEAL”. The words “TOWN OF OCEANA, OCEANA, W.
VA.” shall be written forming a circle with the word “SEAL” in the center
thereof.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   COUNCIL MEETINGS
      
33.   PURCHASING
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
36.   TOWN POLICIES
      
37.   JUDICIAL
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Payment due dates for all lease agreements
   
30.02   Personal use of town fuel and town vehicles by employees or elected
officials
   
30.03   Payment of lost firefighters wages
§ 30.01 PAYMENT DUE DATES FOR ALL LEASE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Lease Payment Date Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings.
      (1)   The Town Council has determined that there are annual lease fees
paid by citizens of the town for the annual leasing of properties owned by the
town.
      (2)   The Town Council finds and determines that the current payment due
dates for these leases are for several different dates during the calendar year
and are difficult to keep track of.
      (3)   The Town Council has determined that it would be easier if the
payment due dates of all lease agreements of the town was changed to July 1.
   (C)   Determinations. The Town Council hereby changes all lease payment due
dates to July 1, 2012.
   (D)   Violations. A lessee who does not pay the annual lease fee will be in
breach of the lease agreement entered into with the town.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2012)
§ 30.02 PERSONAL USE OF TOWN FUEL AND TOWN VEHICLES BY EMPLOYEES OR ELECTED
OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Prohibition of Personal Use Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings.
      (1)   The Town Council has determined that there is the possibility that
town vehicles and town purchased fuel could be used by both employees and
elected officials for personal use; and
      (2)   The Town Council finds and determines that special and extenuating
circumstances presently exist within this town that call for special regulation
of this personal use.
   (C)   Determinations. The town prohibits the personal use of town fuel and
the personal use of town vehicles for any personal use by an employee or by an
elected official of the town. If an employee uses his or her own vehicle for
town business, then the town will pay that employee mileage at the current IRS
rate. Any such use of a personal vehicle for town business has to be authorized
by the Mayor.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   An elected official who uses town vehicles or town purchased fuel
for personal use shall be reported to the state’s Ethics Commission.
      (2)   An employee who uses town vehicles or town purchased fuel for
personal use shall be given reprimands consistent with procedures found within
the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2011)
§ 30.03 PAYMENT OF LOST FIREFIGHTERS WAGES.
   (A)   The Town Council authorizes the Recorder to pay from the General Fund
for any shift or shifts of work lost by a firefighter or firefighters in
pursuit of their duty as volunteer firefighter while fighting a fire inside the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Said firefighter shall be paid in accordance with his or her
prescribed rate of pay might be on the job that he or she is employed at.
   (C)   This rate of pay does not apply to any volunteer firefighter who does
not be necessity in fighting fire lose a shift of work.
(Ord. passed 2-4-1965)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Compensation of elected municipal officers
   
31.02   Prohibiting future elected officials from receiving any benefit other
than salary
Town Treasurer and Recorder
   
31.15   Definitions
   
31.16   Applicability
   
31.17   Treasurer’s duties
   
31.18   Recorder’s duties
   
31.19   Treasurer generally
   
31.20   Disclosure of expenditures
   
31.21   Recorder salary
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COMPENSATION OF ELECTED MUNICIPAL OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor, Town Recorder and the five Council members, each shall be
paid the sum of $200 per month for attendance at regular and specially called
meetings. When a special meeting is not called, the Mayor, Town Recorder and
the five Council members shall receive compensation in the amount of $200 per
month. In no event shall the payment to the Mayor, Town Recorder or each of the
five Council members exceed the sum of $200 each in any calendar month during
their term of office for attendance at a regular or specially called meeting of
the Town Council in any calendar month; provided, however, in addition to the
compensation to be paid to the Mayor and Town Recorder for attendance at the
Council meetings aforesaid, the Mayor shall be paid an additional sum of $500
and the Town Recorder shall be paid an additional sum of $350 for each calendar
month during their terms of office as pay for their services as the Mayor and
Town Recorder of the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to or affect
the salary or compensation of the current municipal officers, and shall become
effective at the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1, 1998.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1988; Ord. passed 5-26-1992; Ord. passed 3-17-1998)
§ 31.02 PROHIBITING FUTURE ELECTED OFFICIALS FROM RECEIVING ANY BENEFIT OTHER
THAN SALARY.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Prohibition of Future Elected Officials From Receiving Benefits Other Than
Salary Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings.
      (1)   The Town Council has determined that there is the possibility that
benefits other than salary are being received by elected officials of the town.
      (2)   The Town Council finds and determines that special and extenuating
circumstances presently exist within this town that call for special regulation
of this receipt of benefits other than salary.
   (C)   Determinations. The Town Council hereby prohibits any elected official
of the town from receiving any benefit other than the salary proscribed by
ordinance of the town, in accordance with the laws of the state, with “benefit”
being described as “something that would cost the town money”. An example of a
“benefit” would be a pool pass. The elected official still has the opportunity
to ask for a benefit from the Mayor, Recorder and Town Council.
   (D)   Violations. An elected official who obtains a benefit from the town
without seeking approval of the Mayor, Recorder and Town Council shall be
reported to the state’s Ethics Commission.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2011)
TOWN TREASURER AND RECORDER
§ 31.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECORDER. Anyone who is elected to fill said position for the town, to
perform the duties of the Mayor of the town when the Mayor is absent or ill.
   TREASURER. The person hired by the Town Council for two- or four-year terms
to perform all financial duties and obligations and to engage in personnel
management responsibilities in cooperation with the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2007; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 31.16 APPLICABILITY.
   It has been determined that this subchapter applies to all individuals who
are elected as Recorder and all individuals who are hired as Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 31.17 TREASURER’S DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Administer all financial obligations and duties of the town,
including, but not limited to, the administration of the town’s municipal water
and sewer systems, the development of the budgets for each department of the
town, collecting and managing all funds, all accounting and financial
reporting, and budget preparation; and
   (B)   Personnel management responsibilities in cooperation with the Mayor.
In the event of a conflict between the Mayor and the Recorder, in the duties of
personnel management, the Mayor of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2007; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 31.18 RECORDER’S DUTIES.
   The Recorder shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep the minutes of the regular and special meetings of the Town
Council;
   (B)   Preserve the official minutes, ordinances, resolutions and other
records of the town;
   (C)   All election duties and responsibilities of the town; and
   (D)   The official duties of the Mayor of the town, only when the Mayor of
the town is absent or too ill to perform his or her obligations and only upon
the consent of the Mayor of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2007; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 31.19 TREASURER GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Council agrees that the Treasurer shall be hired by the Mayor and
approved by a majority vote of the Council and the Mayor.
   (B)   The Council agrees that the Treasurer shall be on the payroll as a
paid employee of the town. The job of Treasurer is to be budgeted as a position
of employment separate from the elected position of Recorder.
   (C)   The Treasurer will be eligible to run for any elected office of the
town.
   (D)   The Treasurer will be an “at will” employee of the town and will be
subject to the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall be a high school graduate and shall have
experience in the field of accounting and/or bookkeeping.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2007; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 31.20 DISCLOSURE OF EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISCRETIONARY EXPENDITURES. Any expenditure which is outside of the
normal course of business for the town.
      EXPENDITURE. Any expense made by the Treasurer of the town.
   (B)   The Council agrees that the Treasurer shall provide a report to the
Council at each regular meeting of the Town Council which lists each and every
expenditure made by the Treasurer on behalf of the town. When possible and
practicable, the Treasurer shall provide purchase orders to the Town Council
for its approval.
   (C)   The Council agrees that all discretionary expenditures shall be
submitted to the Town Council for discussion and vote prior to funds of the
town being committed for such discretionary expenditure.
   (D)   When there is doubt in anyone’s mind about whether or not an
expenditure falls under the definition of discretionary, that expenditure must
come before the Town Council for discussion and vote prior to funds of the town
being committed for such discretionary expenditure.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010)
§ 31.21 RECORDER SALARY.
   The Recorder will be paid a salary of $200 per month.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
CHAPTER 32: COUNCIL MEETINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Policy for conduct of Council meetings regarding citizen recognition
Open Meetings
   
32.15   Short title
   
32.16   Purposes and findings
   
32.17   Determinations
   
32.18   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 POLICY FOR CONDUCT OF COUNCIL MEETINGS REGARDING CITIZEN RECOGNITION.
   (A)   It has been determined that this section applies to all regular,
special and emergency meetings of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Council agrees that after each topic is announced on the agenda
and after each Council person, Recorder, Mayor and Attorney have said what they
want to say about each topic, then members of the public in attendance at the
meeting will be asked to walk quietly and peaceably in a single file line
behind the microphone established for such purpose.
   (C)   The Council agrees to allot each citizen five minutes to speak their
mind and to dialogue with the Council, Recorder, Mayor and Attorney, if
necessary.
   (D)   The Council agrees that everyone shall speak in a one at a time
manner. No boisterous or excessively loud conduct will be allowed. Rudeness to
anyone will not be tolerated.
   (E)   The Council agrees that no one will be allowed to speak unless they
are standing behind the microphone established for such purpose. No one will be
permitted to speak or yell from the chair in which they are sitting.
   (F)   (1)   If in the determination of a majority of the Town Council, such
member of the public is conducting himself or herself in a manner which is in
violation of this section, then the member of the public will be asked to
leave.
      (2)   If the member of the public does not leave voluntarily, then a
member of the town’s Police Department will be asked to escort said member of
the public out of the meeting and away from town property.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010)
OPEN MEETINGS
§ 32.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Open Governmental
Meetings Act Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 32.16 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that there is the possibility that
elected officials of the town could conduct meetings without notice as required
by West Virginia law.
   (B)   The Town Council finds and determines that special and extenuating
circumstances presently exist within this town that call for regulation of any
meetings held without notice to the public.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 32.17 DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the Open Governmental Meetings Act, as
contained within W. Va. Code §§ 6-9A-l et seq., and intends to follow the
guidelines established in this Act when completing an agenda for a meeting and
when conducting a regular or special Council meeting.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 32.18 VIOLATIONS.
   An elected official who violates the Open Governmental Meetings Act, being
W. Va. Code Chapter 6, Article 9A, shall be reported to the state’s Ethics
Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
CHAPTER 33: PURCHASING
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Short title
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Definitions
   
33.04   Purchasing agent
   
33.05   Powers and duties of the purchasing agent
   
33.06   Pre-audit certification
   
33.07   Gifts and favors prohibited
   
33.08   Evasion prohibited
Procurement
   
33.20   Small purchases
   
33.21   Purchases based on formal bids
   
33.22   Exceptions
   
33.23   Award credit for local merchants
   
33.24   Waiver based on the other government purchases
   
33.25   Procurement; professional services
   
33.26   Contracts for architectural and engineering services; selection process
where total project cost are estimated to cost $250,000 or more
   
33.27   Contracts for architectural and engineering services; selection process
where total project costs are estimated to cost less than $250,000
   
33.28   Tie bids
   
33.29   Non-discrimination policy
   
33.30   Reservations
Other Regulations
   
33.45   Intergovernmental agreements, contracts with other governmental
agencies
   
33.46   Severability
   
33.47   Receipt of federal or state funds
   
33.48   Amendment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be sited as the “Town of Oceana Purchasing Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose for this chapter is to provide for an efficient and equitable
system of public purchasing by the town; to obtain the maximum purchasing value
of public funds in procurement system of quality and integrity; and, to provide
for selling surplus goods in a manner which is efficient and equitable and
yields the highest sale price.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAPTER. Sections
33.01 through
33.08,
33.20 through
33.30 and
33.45 through
33.48 of this code of ordinances.
   CONTRACT. Any town agreement, regardless of form or title, for the
procurement or disposition of goods.
   GIFTS or FAVORS. Anything of any service or value.
   GOODS. Supplies, apparatus, materials, equipment and other forms of tangible
personal property.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Oceana.
   PURCHASING AGENT. The person designated as a purchasing agent pursuant to §
33.04 of this chapter.
   TOWN. The Town of Oceana
   TOWN COUNCIL. The governing board of the Town of Oceana.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of the Town of Oceana.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.04 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall have the responsibilities and powers of the
purchasing agent under this chapter; provided, however, the Treasurer may
delegate some or all the responsibilities and powers to a subordinate town
employee and may designate the employee as purchasing agent.
   (B)   (1)   The purchasing agent shall serve as such at the pleasure of the
Treasurer. Any such delegation shall be in writing, shall be filed in the
office of Treasurer, and shall be available for public inspection in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   If the Treasurer reserves any power or responsibility for himself
or herself, that reservation shall be expressed in the written delegation
statement filed with the Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PURCHASING AGENT.
   The purchasing agent shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   (1)   Procure or oversee the procurement of all goods needed by the
town and advertise for bids of such goods.
      (2)   Consistent with this chapter and subject to the approval of the
Council, Recorder, and Mayor, the purchasing agent may adopt operating
procedures relating to purchase of goods for the town and may publish a
handbook containing those procedures;
   (B)   Provide for and oversee, the development of specifications for goods
purchased by the town, administer purchase contracts to which the town is a
party, and provide for inspecting and accepting goods purchased by the town;
   (C)   Process all claims for loss, damage, breakage or shortage, or claims
for refund and adjustment concerning the purchase of goods for the town;
   (D)   Exercise general supervision and control over all inventories and
goods belonging to the town and provide for the transfer between town
departments of surplus goods;
   (E)   Require bonds, insurance and other forms of protection for the town in
the process of procuring goods for the town;
   (F)   Terminate solicitations for bids when, in the opinion of the Town
Council, it is in the town’s best interest to do so;
   (G)   Reject any and all bids when, in the opinion of the Town Council, it
is in the town’s best interest to do so;
   (H)   Following consultation with the Town Attorney, terminate contracts or
pursue other remedies when the party or parties with whom the town is
contracting has, or have, breached the contract;
   (I)   Sell, lease or dispose of goods and personal property of the town as
prescribed in W. Va. Code § 8-12-18; and
   (J)   Perform such other duties as the Treasurer shall direct.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.06 PRE-AUDIT CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The purchasing agent shall not approve any contract for the purchase
of goods until the Treasurer certifies, after pre-audit, that there is to the
credit of the using department or agency, a sufficient unencumbered
appropriation balance in excess of all unpaid obligations, to defray the amount
of such order.
   (B)   Subject to the approval of the Treasurer, the purchasing agent may
issue operation rules to ensure compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.07 GIFTS AND FAVORS PROHIBITED.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the town whose duties
involve the purchasing and selling of goods, or the preparation of
specifications for the purchase of goods for the town, are expressly prohibited
from engaging in any activity or accepting any gift or favor that is prohibited
by the West Virginia Governmental Ethics Act, being W. Va. Code Chapter 6B,
Article 1.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.08 EVASION PROHIBITED.
   No purchase of sale shall be divided for the purpose of evading the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
PROCUREMENT
§ 33.20 SMALL PURCHASES.
   The purchasing agent shall establish procedures for the purchases of goods
involving the estimated expenditure of less than $1,000 of public money. These
procedures shall require that competition be sought and written records be
adequate to document that the competition be maintained in order to properly
account for the funds expended, and facilitate an audit of the small purchases
made.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.21 PURCHASES BASED ON FORMAL BIDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no contract for the purchase
of goods involving the estimated expenditure of $1,000 or more of public money
shall be awarded unless the provisions of this section are complied with.
   (A)   Proposals shall be invited by advertisement in a newspaper having
general circulation in the town. The advertisement shall state the time and
place for opening of the bids. At least seven full days must pass between the
day the advertisement appears and the day of the bid opening. The advertisement
shall state the town reserves the right to reject any and/or all of the bid.
   (B)   (1)   The purchasing agent may require that bid deposits be submitted
with each bid. If bid deposits are required, they shall be in an amount equal
to 5% of the amount of the bid and may be submitted in the form of:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   A cashier’s check;
         (c)   A certified check by a bank or trust company insured by the
federal deposit insurance corporation; or
         (d)   A bid bond or other form of bid security deemed sufficient by
the Town Attorney.
      (2)   The bid bond requirement, including the form in which bonds or
other forms of bid security may be submitted, shall be included in the
specifications.
   (C)   Bids shall be sealed. The purchasing agent shall establish rules
regarding the acceptance of bids by facsimile, and such rules shall comply with
the state code and be on file with the Treasurer’s office.
   (D)   All bids shall be open in public and the purchasing agent shall make a
record of the bids received. The record and the bids received shall be subject
to public inspection after the bid opening in the manner prescribed by law.
   (E)   The purchasing agent may require the successful bidder to furnish a
performance bond to secure the faithful performance of all the terms of the
contract. The performance bond shall be in the form approved by the Town
Attorney, and the form of the bond shall be made in subject to division (A) of
this section. The Town Council may reject the bond of any bidder if they find
it to be unacceptable for any reason.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the bids, the Town Council shall review and recommend
award of the contract as it may determine. All contracts to which this section
applies shall be subject to approval by the Town Council. The Town Council may
reject any and all bids.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the purchase of goods
when:
      (1)   A good is available from only one source of supply; and
      (2)   A special emergency exists involving the health and safety of the
people and their property.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and submit to the Town Council a
written report concerning any purchase to be made pursuant to this section, and
such purchases shall be subject to approval or ratification by the Town
Council.
      (2)   The Town Council may keep a record of all purchases made pursuant
to this section, and these records shall be subject to public inspection in the
manner provided by law.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.23 AWARD CREDIT FOR LOCAL MERCHANTS.
   Purchases shall be made from, and contracts shall be awarded to, the lowest
responsible bidder meeting bid specifications; provided, that, in determining
the lowest responsible bidder, a competitive advantage of 5% shall be afforded
to the bidders with mercantile establishments situated within the town and who
pay a town business and occupation tax and are current in its accounts to the
town, with such 5% competitive advantage to be based upon the gross amount of
the bid received from the local merchant.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.24 WAIVER BASED ON THE OTHER GOVERNMENT PURCHASES.
   (A)   When the Town Council determines that it is in the best interest of
the town, the requirements of this chapter may be waived for the purchase of
goods from any person or entity that has, within the previous 12 months, after
completed a public, formal bid process substantially similar to that prescribed
in §
33.21 of this chapter, contracted to furnish the goods to:
      (1)   The United States of America or any federal agency; or
      (2)   This state or any agency or political subdivision of this state;
provided the person or entity is willing to furnish the goods at the same or
more favorable prices, terms and conditions as those described under the
contract with the other unit or agency.
   (B)   Any purchase made under this section shall be approved or ratified by
the Town Council at a meeting of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.25 PROCUREMENT; PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   For the purpose of procuring the services of accountants, clergy,
physicians, lawyers, dentists, industrial hygienists, appraisers or other
professionals, professional service contracts shall be the responsibility of
the Town Council to employ such individuals or firms within the limit of funds
available for lawful town purposes. Any department, board or commission of the
town may contract for such services without competitive procedures and without
requiring a performance surety.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.26 CONTRACTS FOR ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES; SELECTION PROCESS
WHERE TOTAL PROJECT COST ARE ESTIMATED TO COST $250,000 OR MORE.
   (A)   In the procurement of architectural and engineering services;
selection process where total project cost are estimated to cost $250,000 or
more, the Treasurer shall encourage such firms engaged in the lawful practice
of the profession to submit an expression of interest, which shall include a
statement of qualifications and performance data and may include anticipated
concepts and proposed methods of approach to the project.
   (B)   (1)   All such jobs shall be announced by public notice published as a
Class II legal advertisement in compliance with provisions of W. Va. Code §§
59-3-1 et seq. A committee of at least three representatives of the town,
including Council members and the Mayor, shall evaluate the statements of
qualifications and performance data and other material submitted by interested
firms and select a minimum of three firms which, in their opinion, are best
qualified to perform the desired service. Interviews with each firm selected
shall be conducted, and the committee shall conduct discussions regarding
anticipated concepts and proposed methods of approach to the assignment.
      (2)   The committee shall then rank, in order of preference, not less
than three professional firms deemed to be the most highly qualified to provide
the services required.
   (C)   The Mayor shall commence scope of service and price negotiations with
the highest qualified professional firm or the architectural or engineering
services or both, which agreement shall be approved by the Town Council before
the town may enter into a binding contract.
   (D)   (1)   Should the Mayor be unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract
with the firm considered to be the most qualified at a fee determined to be
fair and reasonable, price negotiations with the firm of the second choice
shall commence.
      (2)   Failing accord with the second most qualified professional firm,
the Mayor shall undertake price negotiations with the third most qualified
professional firm.
   (E)   Should the Mayor be unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with
any of the selected firms, then the committee shall select additional
professional firms in order of their competence and qualifications, and the
Mayor shall continue negotiations in accordance with this section until the
agreement is reached.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.27 CONTRACTS FOR ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SERVICES; SELECTION PROCESS
WHERE TOTAL PROJECT COSTS ARE ESTIMATED TO COST LESS THAN $250,000.
   (A)   (1)   In the procurement of architectural and engineering services;
selection process where total project cost are estimated to cost less than
$250,000, competition shall be sought by the town.
      (2)   The Mayor shall conduct discussions with three or more professional
firms solicited on the basis of known or submitted qualifications for the
assignment prior to the awarding of any contract: provided, that if a judgement
is made that special circumstances exists and that seeking competition is not
practical, the Mayor may, with the prior approval of the Council, select a firm
on the basis of previous satisfactory performance and knowledge of the town’s
facilities and needs.
   (B)   After selection, the Town Council, the Mayor and the firm shall
develop the scope of services required and negotiate an agreement which shall
be approved by the Town Council before the town may enter into a binding
contract.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.28 TIE BIDS.
   In the event of a tie, ties shall be resolved by the flip of a coin
performed during a meeting of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.29 NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   In every case, all contracts shall be made and purchases shall be awarded
without regard to race, religion, political affiliation, sex, handicap or
national origin.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.30 RESERVATIONS.
   Whether or not expressly set forth in the notice of solicitation for
bidding, the town shall be privileged and hereby reserves the right to reject
any and all bids and further reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to
determine whether a bidder is responsible based upon past performances and the
best information available at the time of the awarding of the contract or
purchase order.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 33.45 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS WITH OTHER GOVERNMENTAL
AGENCIES.
   If the town enters into an intergovernmental agreement or contract with
another governmental agency as permitted by state law, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply unless the agreement or contract contains express
provisions for the procurement of goods, in which case, if the
intergovernmental agreement or contract was adopted by ordinance as required by
W. Va. Code § 8-11-3(10), the procurement terms of the agreement or contract
shall apply.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.46 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable. If any section,
sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter shall, for any reason, be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the remaining sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this
chapter, but they shall remain in effect; it being the legislative intent that
this chapter shall remain in effect notwithstanding the validity of any part.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.47 RECEIPT OF FEDERAL OR STATE FUNDS.
   If any requirement of the provisions set forth in this chapter jeopardizes
the receipt of federal or state funds, then such requirements or provision
shall be void and of no force or effect for that specific project.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 33.48 AMENDMENT.
   The amendment to the purchasing ordinance of the town is as follows: a three
step process of documentation of purchases should be implemented when a repair
of either real or personal property belonging to the town is needed. First, a
work order is to be completed, which details the problem to be fixed and/or
repaired. Second, a purchase order is to be completed, which details the parts
needed to repair the issue addressed by the work order along with the cost of
each individual item listed on the purchase order. Third, a job completion
statement is to be created, which details which part went to fix what problem.
If entered into a computer program, then all efforts will need to be made to
see that the above information is entered into the computer program with
sufficient detail to accomplish the intention of this amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2010; Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
Municipal Election; Officers and Filing Fees
   
34.01   Authority, findings and determinations
   
34.02   Time and place
   
34.03   Filing announcement of candidacies; requirements
   
34.04   Municipal election candidate filing fees
   
34.05   General law concerning offices and elections; notice and publication
   
34.06   Term of elected officials
   
34.07   Refund of filing fees
Payment of Election Poll Workers
   
34.15   Short title
   
34.16   Purposes and findings
   
34.17   Determinations
   
34.18   Violations
MUNICIPAL ELECTION; OFFICERS AND FILING FEES
§ 34.01 AUTHORITY, FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Authority. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of W.
Va. Code Chapter 8, Article 5, § 5, and Chapter 8, Article 11, §§ 1 et seq.,
and amendments thereto, and other applicable provisions of law.
   (B)   Findings and determinations. It is hereby found, determined and
declared as follows:
“That under the provisions of Chapter 8, Article 5, Section 5 of the West
Virginia Code, as amended, the regular election of officers of a city, town, or
village is required to be held on the first Tuesday in May of the appropriate
year; and that in 1981, the West Virginia Legislature, under Code 3-5-1,
changed the date of the State primary election from the first Tuesday in May of
the appropriate year; that the Town of Oceana does not maintain separate books
and uses the county registration books in its elections and the voting precinct
boundaries of the town does not coincide with the voting precinct boundaries
established by the county commission; and that the conflict in the election by
the Town of Oceana on the first Tuesday in May and the State primary election
on the second Tuesday in May results in the unavailability of the voters
registration records and books and the polling place for the municipal election
for the Town of Oceana and precludes the Town of Oceana from carrying out its
duties with reference to the regular municipal election; and, it is necessary
to provide that the municipal election of the Town of Oceana be held on some
day other than the first Tuesday in May.”
(Ord. passed 4-3-1986)
§ 34.02 TIME AND PLACE.
   It is hereby declared that the regular election for the office of Mayor,
Town Recorder and five Members of the Town Council shall be held on the first
Tuesday in May in the year 1980, and thereafter on the first Tuesday in May of
the appropriate year, at which election the officers shall be elected for a
four-year term.
(Ord. 3-24-1980; Ord. passed 4-3-1986; Ord. passed - -2024)
Cross-reference:
   Term of elected officials, see §
34.06
§ 34.03 FILING ANNOUNCEMENT OF CANDIDACIES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person who is eligible to hold and seeks to hold the office of
Mayor, Town Recorder or Council Member of the town shall file with the Town
Recorder of the town, a certificate declaring himself or herself as a candidate
for such office in form or effect as required by general law.
   (B)   Such certificate shall be filed with the Town Recorder not earlier
than the second Monday in the month of February next preceding the election day
to be held on the second Tuesday in the month of June of the election year, and
not later than the first Friday of March next preceding the election day, and
must be received before the close of the business day, eastern standard time,
of that day, or if mailed, shall be postmarked before that hour, in each
appropriate election year.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the municipal election
held in the year 1986 and every municipal election held thereafter, until the
date of holding the municipal elections are changed by statute duly enacted by
the state legislature enabling the town to hold its election not in conflict
with the state primary election, or by an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1986)
§ 34.04 MUNICIPAL ELECTION CANDIDATE FILING FEES.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that there are filing fees for an
elected office of the town.
   (B)   The Town Council has determined that the current fees are not in
compliance with the fees recommended to be charged by the Secretary of State’s
office, with said recommendation being 1% of the annual salary of the
particular office filed for.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby increases the filing fees for a candidate
seeking election to a municipal office of the town to the following rates:
 
Mayor    $96
Recorder $66
Council  $24
 
   (D)   A candidate for an elected office of the town who does not pay the
filing fee will not be placed upon the ballot to run for the office he or she
desires.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1986; Ord. passed 10-13-2016)
§ 34.05 GENERAL LAW CONCERNING OFFICES AND ELECTIONS; NOTICE AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the provisions of
general laws with respect to the method and time for the filing of certificates
of candidacy, conducting municipal elections, and determining and certifying
the results of such elections, so far as appropriate, shall apply to the
municipal elections of the town.
   (B)   Notice of the municipal election shall be given during the two weeks
next preceding the election by publication of a sample official ballot as a
Class II-0 legal advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code
§§ 59-3-1 et seq. and Chapter 59, and the publication area for such publication
shall be the town. The second publication shall be on the last day upon which
each newspaper is published before the election.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1986)
§ 34.06 TERM OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Elected officials shall be elected to serve a four-year term beginning July
first following the election.
(Ord. passed 4-3-1986)
§ 34.07 REFUND OF FILING FEES.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Filing Fee Refund Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings.
      (1)   The Town Council has determined that there are filing fees paid by
citizens of the town for the privilege of declaring a candidacy for an elected
office of the town.
      (2)   The Town Council finds and determines that some individuals who
file for candidacy later are excluded from the ballot or voluntarily withdraw
their name from the ballot.
      (3)   The Town Council has determined that it would be fair and equitable
to allow such individuals to be refunded their filing fees.
   (C)   Determinations. The Town Council hereby mandates that all filing fees
be refunded for any candidate who has voluntarily withdrawn from candidacy and
any candidate who has been excluded from the ballot for any reason.
   (D)   Exclusions. This section would not allow individuals who run for
office and then are subsequently elected to be refunded any filing fees and
would not allow individuals who serve either part or all of their elected terms
to be refunded any filing fees.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2012)
PAYMENT OF ELECTION POLL WORKERS
§ 34.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Poll Worker Payment
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2012)
§ 34.16 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a procedure followed
by the town when the Recorder hires poll workers and the Treasurer pays for the
services of said poll workers.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2012)
§ 34.17 DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby implements the following procedures for the payment
of poll workers.
   (A)   Each poll worker and alternate poll worker who attends training for an
election will receive $75 for successful completion of the training.
   (B)   No payment for successful completion of training will be issued by the
Treasurer until the completion of the election. In other words, no poll worker
or alternate poll worker will be paid for their training participation until
after the election is completed.
   (C)   Alternates who successfully complete the training for an election but
who do not serve as a poll worker will still be paid $75 for their successful
completion of the training but only after the election has been completed.
   (D)   Each poll worker who successfully serves the entire election day will
be paid $75, after the election is completed.
   (E)   Each early voter poll worker will be paid the current minimum wage for
each hour that they serve during the early voting period and will be paid for
their successful completion of the early voting service to the town after the
election has been completed.
   (F)   The Recorder, seeing a need for a variance to the above payment
schedule and amounts, or seeing budgetary restrictions or surpluses, can ask
the Council of the town for permission to increase payment, decrease payment or
make other variances to divisions (A) through (E) of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2012)
§ 34.18 VIOLATIONS.
   Any employee who does not comply with this poll worker payment subchapter is
subject to disciplinary procedures from the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2012)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
Hotel/Motel Tax
   
35.001   Definitions
   
35.002   Rate of tax
   
35.003   Consumer to pay tax; hotel or hotel operator not to represent that it
will absorb tax; accounting by hotel
   
35.004   Occupancy billed to government agencies or employees
   
35.005   Collection of tax when sale on credit
   
35.006   Receivership bankruptcy; priority of tax
   
35.007   Failure to collect or remit tax; liability of hotel operator
   
35.008   Total amount collected to be remitted
   
35.009   Tax return and payment
   
35.010   Keeping and preserving of records
   
35.011   Liability of officers
   
35.012   Effective date of subchapter; administration; rules and regulations
   
35.013   Incorporation of West Virginia Code
Tax on Public Utility Services
   
35.025   Authority
   
35.026   Findings and determination
   
35.027   Definitions
   
35.028   Imposition and levying of tax; amount of tax
   
35.029   Collection; time of payment; accounting; effective date if subchapter;
proration
   
35.030   Records; inspection thereof
   
35.031   Exemptions
   
35.032   Nonliability of utility; duty of municipality; refunds; rules and
regulations
   
35.033   Notice to utilities
Business and Occupation Tax
   
35.045   Purpose
   
35.046   Definitions
   
35.047   Imposition of privilege tax
   
35.048   Collection of natural resource products
   
35.049   Manufactured or compounded products
   
35.050   Business of selling tangible property; sales exempt
   
35.051   Public service or utility business
   
35.052   Business of contracting
   
35.053   Business of operating amusements
   
35.054   Service business or calling not otherwise taxed
   
35.055   Business of collecting rentals, royalties and the like
   
35.056   Exemptions; non-exempt businesses
   
35.057   Reductions of taxes; definitions
   
35.058   Computation of tax; payment
   
35.059   Return and remittance by taxpayer
   
35.060   Erroneous computation
   
35.061   Assessment of tax when insufficiently returned
   
35.062   Jeopardy assessments
   
35.063   Notice of assessment; petition for reassessment
   
35.064   Appeal
   
35.065   Service of notice
   
35.066   Tax year
   
35.067   Tax cumulative
   
35.068   Payment
   
35.069   Tax a debt; lien of unpaid tax; recordation of lien
   
35.070   Collection by action or suit; injunction
   
35.071   Payment when person sells out or quits business; lien; liability of
successor
   
35.072   Prerequisite to final settlement with contractor
   
35.073   Priority in distribution in receivership and the like; personal
liability of administrator
   
35.074   Certificate to Clerk of Court of assessment of taxes
   
35.075   Collection by distraint
   
35.076   Administration of subchapter by Town Council
   
35.077   Town authorized to inspect state tax returns
   
35.078   Preparation and disclosure of list of delinquent business and
occupation taxpayers
 
   
35.999   Penalty
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
§ 35.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSIDERATION PAID or CONSIDERATION. The amount received in money, credits,
property or other consideration for or in exchange for the right to occupy a
hotel room as herein defined.
   CONSUMER. A person who pays the consideration for the use or occupancy of a
hotel room. The term CONSUMER shall not be construed to mean the government of
the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities, or the
government of the state or political subdivisions thereof.
   HOTEL. Any facility, building or buildings publicly or privately owned
(including a facility located in a state, county or municipal park), in which
the public may, for a consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations. The term
shall include, but not be limited to, boarding houses, hotels, motels, inns,
courts, lodges, cabins and tourist homes. The term HOTEL shall include state,
county and town parks offering accommodations as herein set forth. The term
HOTEL shall not be construed to mean any hospital, sanitarium, extended care
facility, nursing home or university or college housing unit, or any facility
providing fewer than three hotel rooms, nor any tent, trailer or camper
campsites; provided, that where a university or college housing unit provides
sleeping accommodations for general nonstudent public for a consideration, the
term HOTEL shall, if otherwise applicable, apply to such accommodations for the
purposes of this tax.
   HOTEL OPERATOR. The person who is proprietor of a hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, trustee in
possession, trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, executor, or in any other
capacity. Where the HOTEL OPERATOR performs his or her functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing
agent shall also be deemed a HOTEL OPERATOR for the purposes of this subchapter
and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal.
Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter by either the principal or
the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.
   HOTEL ROOM. Any room or suite of rooms or other facility affording sleeping
accommodations to the general public and situated within a hotel. The term
HOTEL ROOM shall not be construed to mean a banquet room, meeting room or any
other room not primarily used for, or in conjunction with, sleeping
accommodations.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
syndicate, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, receiver,
corporation, guardian, trust, business trust, trustee, committee, estate,
executor, administrator or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   STATE PARK. Any state-owned facility which is part of this state’s park and
recreation system established pursuant to the West Virginia Code. For purposes
of this subchapter, any recreational facility otherwise qualifying as a hotel
and situated within a state park shall be deemed to be solely within the county
in which the building or buildings comprising said facility are physically
situated, notwithstanding the fact that the state park within which said
facility is located may lie within the jurisdiction of more than one county.
   TAX, TAXES or THIS TAX. The hotel occupancy tax authorized by this
subchapter.
   TAXING AUTHORITY. The Town of Oceana, unless otherwise specified.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the tax authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.002 RATE OF TAX.
   The rate of tax imposed shall be 3% of the consideration paid for the use or
occupancy of a hotel room. Such consideration shall not include the amount of
tax imposed on the transaction under W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15, or
charges for meals, valet service, room service, telephone service, or other
charges or consideration not paid for use or occupancy of a hotel room. The tax
shall be imposed on the consumer and shall be collected by the hotel operator
as part of the consideration paid for the occupancy of a hotel room; provided,
that the tax shall not be imposed on any consumer occupying a hotel room for 30
or more consecutive days.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.003 CONSUMER TO PAY TAX; HOTEL OR HOTEL OPERATOR NOT TO REPRESENT THAT IT
WILL ABSORB TAX; ACCOUNTING BY HOTEL.
   (A)   The consumer shall pay to the hotel operator the amount of tax imposed
hereinunder, which tax shall be added to and shall constitute a part of the
consideration paid for the use and occupancy of the hotel room, and which tax
shall be collectible as such by the hotel operator who shall account for, and
remit to the town, all taxes paid by consumers. The hotel operator shall
separately state the tax authorized by this subchapter on all bills, invoices,
accounts, books of account, and records relating to consideration paid for
occupancy or use of a hotel room. The hotel operator may commingle taxes
collected hereunder with the proceeds of the rental of hotel accommodations
unless the town shall, by ordinance, order, regulation or otherwise, require in
writing the hotel operator to segregate such taxes collected from such
proceeds. The town’s claim for the hotel tax shall be enforceable against, and
shall be superior to, all other claims against the moneys so commingled
excepting only claims of the state for moneys held by the hotel pursuant to the
provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 15. All taxes collected pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
hotel until the same shall have been remitted to the town as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   A hotel or hotel operator shall not represent to the public in any
manner, directly or indirectly, that it will absorb all or any part of the tax
or that the tax is not to be considered an element in the price to be collected
from the consumer.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.004 OCCUPANCY BILLED TO GOVERNMENT AGENCIES OR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Hotel room occupancy billed directly to the federal government shall
be exempt from this tax; provided, that rooms paid for by a federal government
employee for which reimbursement is made shall be subject to this tax.
   (B)   Hotel room occupancy billed directly to the state or its political
subdivisions shall be exempt from this tax; provided, that rooms paid for by an
employee of the state for which reimbursement is made shall be subject to this
tax.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.005 COLLECTION OF TAX WHEN SALE ON CREDIT.
   A hotel operator doing business wholly or partially on a credit basis shall
require the consumer to pay the full amount of tax due upon a credit sale at
the time such sale is made or within 30 days thereafter.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.006 RECEIVERSHIP BANKRUPTCY; PRIORITY OF TAX.
   (A)   In the distribution, voluntary or compulsory, in receivership,
bankruptcy or otherwise, of the property or estate of any person, all taxes due
and unpaid authorized under this subchapter shall be paid from the first money
available for distribution in priority to all claims and liens except taxes and
debts due to the United States which under federal law are given priority over
the debts and liens created by municipal ordinance or order of the county
commission for this tax and taxes and debts to the state.
   (B)   Any person charged with the administration or distribution of any such
property or estate who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be
personally liable for any taxes accrued and unpaid which are chargeable against
the person whose property or estate is in administration or distribution.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.007 FAILURE TO COLLECT OR REMIT TAX; LIABILITY OF HOTEL OPERATOR.
   If any hotel operator fails to collect the tax authorized by this subchapter
or shall fail to properly remit such tax to the town, he or she shall be
personally liable for such amount as he or she failed to collect or remit;
provided, that such hotel operator shall not be held liable for failure to
collect such tax if the hotel operator can by good and substantial evidence
prove the refusal of the purchaser to pay this tax despite the diligent effort
in good faith of the hotel operator to collect the tax.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.008 TOTAL AMOUNT COLLECTED TO BE REMITTED.
   (A)   No profit shall accrue to any person as a result of the collection of
the tax authorized under this subchapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding that the total amount of such taxes collected by a
hotel operator may be in excess of the amount for which a consumer would be
liable by the application of this levy for the occupancy of a hotel room or
rooms, the total amount of all taxes collected by any hotel operator shall be
remitted to the town as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.009 TAX RETURN AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, rule or regulation of the
taxing authority, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall be due and
payable in monthly installments on or before the fifteenth day of the calendar
month next succeeding the month in which the tax accrued; provided, that for
credit sales in which the tax authorized by this subchapter is not collected by
the hotel operator at the time of such sales, such tax shall not, for the
purpose of this subchapter, be regarded as having accrued until the date on
which it is either received by the hotel operator or upon the expiration of the
30-day payment period set forth in §
35.005, whichever shall first occur.
   (B)   (1)   The hotel operator shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each
month, prepare and deliver to the taxing authority a return for the preceding
month, in the form prescribed by the taxing authority. Such form shall include
all information necessary for the computation, collection and subsequent
distribution of the tax as the taxing authority may require.
      (2)   A remittance form for the amount of the tax due shall accompany
each return. Each return shall be signed by the hotel operator or his or her
duly authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.010 KEEPING AND PRESERVING OF RECORDS.
   Each hotel operator shall keep complete and accurate records of taxable
sales and of charges together with a record of the tax collected thereon, and
shall keep all invoices and other pertinent documents in such form as the
taxing authority may require. Such records and other documents shall be
preserved for a period of not less than three years, unless the taxing
authority shall consent in writing to their destruction within that period or
shall require that they be kept for a longer period.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.011 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   If the taxpayer is an association or corporation, the officers thereof
actually participating in the management or operation of the association or
corporation shall be personally liable, jointly and severally, for any default
on the part of the association or corporation; and payment of tax, fines,
additions to tax or penalties which may be imposed by state law, municipal
ordinance, or other authority may be enforced against such officers as against
the association or corporation which they represent.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.012 EFFECTIVE DATE OF SUBCHAPTER; ADMINISTRATION; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be and become in effect from the day of May,
2007, and all taxes prescribed hereunder shall be calculated beginning with
said date. The town, through its Recorder or Treasurer, is authorized and
empowered to collect the same in the same manner and by the same manner as
other similar taxes are collected, and may impose and collect the same in the
same manner and by the same remedies as are now, or may hereafter be, provided
by law for the enforcement of liens and levies for the state, county and
municipal taxes.
   (B)   The Recorder or Treasurer shall have the authority to promulgate and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
§ 35.013 INCORPORATION OF WEST VIRGINIA CODE.
   To the extent applicable to municipalities, those portions of the W. Va.
Code §§ 7-18-13 and 7-18- 14, as amended, are hereby incorporated in this
subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
TAX ON PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES
§ 35.025 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 8-
13-5a, 8-11-3 and 8-12-5, as amended, and other applicable provisions of law.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.026 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   It is hereby found, determined and declared follows:
   (A)   The present and proposed income of the town resulting in loses of
income sources is insufficient to meet the budget requirements to provide the
necessary and required services to the residents of the town;
   (B)   It is deemed necessary and essential for the welfare, safety,
advantage and convenience of the citizens and residents of the town, and to
comply with state law in the administration and operation of municipal services
that additional income for the town be raised by levying an excise tax upon the
privilege of purchasing, using or consuming any public utility service and
tangible personal property supplied by any public utility subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of West Virginia, as authorized
by the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-13-?.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.027 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations and combinations thereof, of whatever form or character
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. All services and tangible personal property
purchased within this municipality from a seller, as hereinafter in this
section defined, namely, telephone service; electric service; gas service,
including bottled or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified as a
public utility subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of
West Virginia; water service and sanitary sewer service, if purchased, used or
consumed within the corporate limits of this municipality.
   PURCHASER. Includes every person who purchases, uses or consumes a public
utility service.
   SELLER. Includes every person, whether a public service corporation, a
municipality or private corporation, classified as a public utility and subject
to the jurisdiction of the Public Service Commission of West Virginia, who
sells, furnishes or supplies a public utility service.
   USER. The owner or tenant of private residential property or the owner or
tenant of property used for commercial or industrial purposes, and every
combination thereof, of every kind or description.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.028 IMPOSITION AND LEVYING OF TAX; AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed and levied upon each and every purchaser of
public utility service an excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using or
consuming, within the corporate limits of this municipality, such public
utility service.
   (B)   Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge (exclusive of any
federal or state tax thereon imposed upon the purchaser) made by the seller
against the purchaser with respect to each public utility service, which tax in
every case shall be elected by the seller and paid by the purchaser upon the
amount of each periodic statement rendered such purchaser by the seller, and
shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the time the purchase price or
such charge shall become due and payable under the agreement between the
purchaser and the seller. The tax imposed and levied by this subchapter is in
addition to all other taxes imposed and levied by this municipality. In the
event the amount of the charge for any single public utility service exceeds
the sum of $20,000 in any given calendar month, to any single purchaser, no tax
shall be imposed for such additional purchase, use or consumption in excess of
said amount of $20,000. In the event more than one public utility shall furnish
identical public utility service to the same purchaser, said purchaser shall be
entitled to group the same as a single public utility service in calculating
the amount of the charges in any calendar month [missing word] such public
utility service.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.029 COLLECTION; TIME OF PAYMENT; ACCOUNTING; EFFECTIVE DATE IF SUBCHAPTER;
PRORATION.
   It shall be the duty of every seller in acting as the tax collecting medium
or agency for this municipality to collect from each purchaser for the use of
this municipality the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of collecting
the purchase price charged for its public utility service, and the amount of
tax actually collected during each calendar month shall be reported by each
seller to this municipality and each seller shall remit the amount of tax shown
by said report to have been collected to this municipality on or before the
last day of the second calendar month following the month in which collected,
together with the name and address of any purchaser who has failed or refused
to pay the tax so imposed and levied. The tax imposed and levied by this
subchapter shall apply to periodic statements rendered after July 15, 1989, for
public utility service rendered subsequent to July 15,1989, d when any such
periodic statement covers public utility service rendered both before and after
said date, only that portion of the charge for public utility service rendered
after said date shall be subject to such tax, and the part subject to such tax
shall be such portion of fee total charge as the number of days after July 14,
1989, within the period covered by such periodic statement, bear to the total
number of days covered by such periodic statement. The required reports shall
be in the form prescribed by the official of this municipality charged with the
responsibility of collecting taxes due this municipality.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.030 RECORDS; INSPECTION THEREOF.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of this
municipality, which records shall show the charge made against each purchaser,
the dates such public utility service was furnished [missing word] the date of
payment therefor, and the amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records
shall be kept for at least two years, during which period they may be inspected
by the duly authorized agents of this municipality at reasonable times, and the
duly authorized agents of this municipality shall have the right, power and
authority to make at the expense of this municipality such transcripts thereof
during such times as they may desire.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.031 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions, which transactions are hereby exempted from such tax:
   (A)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (B)   Purchasers of tangible personal property such as appliances or the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (C)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones, and specific charges or tolls for
telephone calls to points outside the corporate limits of this municipality;
and
   (D)   Nonrecurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.032 NONLIABILITY OF UTILITY; DUTY OF MUNICIPALITY; REFUNDS; RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously
collecting the tax hereby imposed and levied or for erroneously failing to bill
for such a tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the seller.
      (2)   When any purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by such
purchaser on the ground that the public utility service was not purchased, used
or consumed within the corporate limits of this municipality, the seller shall
refer the question to the official of this municipality charged with the
responsibility of collecting taxes due to this municipality, and such seller
shall thereafter collect or refrain from collecting such tax from such
purchaser for such public utility service as instructed in writing to do so by
such officials of this municipality.
      (3)   Any and all claims for refunds of any such tax shall be presented
to this municipality and not to the seller.
   (B)   The official of this municipality charged with the responsibility of
collecting taxes due this municipality shall have the authority to promulgate
and enforce reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration
and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
§ 35.033 NOTICE TO UTILITIES.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not be effective until this
municipality gives 60 days written notice by certified mail of the effective
date of the subchapter to any public utility doing business within this
municipality which is required to collect the tax imposed and levied hereby.
(Ord. passed 5-4-1989)
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX
§ 35.045 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide sufficient additional tax funds
to provide for:
   (A)   Improved and more efficient town lights;
   (B)   For improvement of streets, bridges and sidewalk maintenance and
construction; and
   (C)   For other improvements selected by the Town Council such as libraries,
garbage disposal plants, emergency financing of limited parts of sewer, and to
provide additional operational expenses for the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes all activities engaged in or caused to be engaged in with
the object of gain or economic benefit direct or indirect. The production of
raw materials or manufactured products, which are used or consumed in the main
business, shall be deemed business engaged in taxable in the class in which it
falls.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of the taxpayer received as compensation
for personal services and the gross receipts of the taxpayer derived from the
trade, business, commerce or sale and the value proceeding or accruing from the
sale of tangible property (real or personal), or services, or both, and all
receipts by reason of the investment of the capital of the business engaged in,
including interest, discount, rentals, royalties, fees and other emoluments
however designated and without any deduction on account of property sold, the
cost of materials used, labor cost, taxes, royalties, interest or discount paid
or any other expenses whatsoever.
   GROSS PROCEEDS OF SALE. The value actually proceeding from the sale of
tangible property without any deduction on account of the cost of the property
sold or expenses of any kind. The words GROSS INCOME and GROSS PROCEEDS OF
SALES shall not be construed to include cash discounts allowed and taken on
sales; the proceeds of sale of goods, wares or merchandise returned by
customers when the sale price is refunded either in cash or by credit; or the
sale price of any article accepted as part payment on any new article sold, if
the full sale price of the new article is included in the GROSS INCOME or GROSS
RECEIPTS OF SALE.
   PERSON or COMPANY. Herein used interchangeable includes any individual,
firm, co-partnership, joint adventure, association, corporation, trust or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, in the plural as well as the
singular number unless in intention to give a more limited meaning is disclosed
by the context.
   SALE or SALES. Includes the exchange of properties as well as the sale
thereof, for money, every closed transaction constituting a SALE.
   SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING. Includes all non-professional activities
engaged in for other persons for a consideration, which involves the rendering
of a service as distinguished from the production or sale of tangible property,
but shall not include the service rendered by an employee to his or her
employer.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for any tax hereunder.
   TAX YEAR or TAXABLE YEAR. Either the calendar year or the taxpayers physical
year when permission is obtained from the Town Recorder to use same as the tax
period in lieu of the calendar year.
   WHOLESALE or JOBBING. The classification shall apply only to a person doing
a regularly organized jobbing business known to the trade as such, selling to
licensed retail merchants or jobbers, or to others in wholesale quantities and
at wholesale prices.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.047 IMPOSITION OF PRIVILEGE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby levied and shall be collected an annual privilege tax
against the persons, on account of the business and other activities, and in
the amounts to be determined by the application of rates against values or
gross income as set forth in this section and §§
35.048 through
35.055 inclusive.
   (B)   (1)   To the extent not herein set forth in this subchapter, W. Va.
Code § 8-13-5, as amended, is hereby incorporated into this subchapter as if
set forth in its entirety.
      (2)   Any provisions in this subchapter contrary to the provisions set
forth in W. Va. Code § 8-13-5, shall be resolved in favor of the West Virginia
Code.
   (C)   If any person liable for any tax under said §§
35.048 and
35.049 shall ship or transport his products or any part thereof outside the
corporate limits without making sale of such products, the value of such
products in the form in which they exist immediately prior to such transports
shall be the basis for the assessment of the tax herein imposed in determining
value in equitable and uniform rule used by the State Tax Commissioner may be
used in the administration of this subchapter by the town officials.
   (D)   A person exercising any privilege taxable hereunder engaging in,
selling natural resources or manufactured products at retail within the
corporate limits shall be required to make returns of the gross proceeds of
such retail sales and pay the tax imposed by §
35.049, but this provision shall not apply where the sales are so made by the
production of natural resources to other manufacturers at wholesale.
   (E)   Applicable rules adopted by the State Tax Commissioner in imposing the
tax upon the privilege herein provided for may be officially adopted and used
by the officials of the town in the levying of this subchapter the same as if
specifically set forth herein.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-26-1992)
§ 35.048 COLLECTION OF NATURAL RESOURCE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the corporate limits
of the town in the business of producing for sale, profit or commercial use any
natural resource products, the amount of such tax shall be equal to the value
of the products produced as shown by the gross sales, from sale thereof by the
producer except as hereinafter provided, multiplied by the respective rate as
follows:
      (1)   Coal: 5%;
      (2)   Natural gas in excess of the value of $5,000: 3.5%;
      (3)   Sand, gravel or other mineral products not quarried or mined: 2%;
      (4)   Timber: 7.5%; and
      (5)   Other natural resource products: 1.3%.
   (B)   The measure of this tax is the value of the entire production within
the corporate limits regardless of the place of sale or the fact that delivery
may be made to points outside the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.049 MANUFACTURED OR COMPOUNDED PRODUCTS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the corporate limits in the
business of manufacturing, compounding or preparing for sale, profit or
commercial use, either directly or through the activity of others in whole or
part, any article or articles, substance or substances, commodity or
commodities, or electric power not produced by public utilities taxable under
this subchapter, the amount of tax to be equal to the value of the article,
substance, commodity or electric power manufactured, compounded or prepared for
sale, as shown by the gross proceeds derived from the sale thereof by the
manufacturer or person compounding or preparing the same except as hereinafter
provided, multiplied by the rate of 1%. The measure of this tax is the value of
the entire product manufactured, compounded or prepared in the corporate
limits, for sale, profit or commercial use, regardless of the place of sale or
the fact that deliveries may be made to points outside the town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.050 BUSINESS OF SELLING TANGIBLE PROPERTY; SALES EXEMPT.
   Upon every person engaged or continuing within the corporate limits in the
business of selling any tangible property wharsoever, real or personal,
including the sale of food, and the services incident to the sale of food in
hotels, restaurants, cafeterias, confectionaries and other public eating
houses, except sales by any person engaging or continuing in the business of
horticulture, agriculture or grazing, or of selling stocks, bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness, there is likewise hereby levied, and shall be
collected, a tax equivalent of 0.21% of the gross income of the business,
except that in the business of selling at wholesale the tax shall be equal to
0.1% of the gross income of the business.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 8-28-1986)
§ 35.051 PUBLIC SERVICE OR UTILITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   Upon any person engaging or continuing within the corporate limits in
any public service or utility business, except railroads, express, pipe line,
telephone or telegraph companies and motor vehicle carriers, there is likewise
hereby levied and shall be collected taxes on the account of the business
engaged in equal to that gross income of the business multiplied by the
respective rates as follows:
      (1)   Water companies: 4% except as to income received by municipality-
owned water plant;
      (2)   Electric light and power companies: 3%;
      (3)   All sales and demands charged for domestic purpose and commercial
lighting: 3% and 3% on sales and charges for all other purposes;
      (4)   Natural gas companies: 2.25% on the gross income, said gross income
for this purpose to be determined by deducting from gross income from all sales
to consumers the amount of tax paid by the taxpayers under §
35.047; and
      (5)   Upon all other public service or public utilities: 1.5%.
   (B)   The measure of this tax shall not include gross income derived from
interstate commerce.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.052 BUSINESS OF CONTRACTING.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the corporate limits in the
business of contracting, the tax shall be equal to 1% of the gross income of
business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.053 BUSINESS OF OPERATING AMUSEMENTS.
   Upon every person engaging or continuing within the corporate limits in the
business of operating a theater, opera house, moving picture show, vaudeville,
amusement park, dance hall, skating rink, pool room, radio broadcasting station
or any other place at which amusements are offered to the public the tax shall
be equal to 0.25% of the gross income of the business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.054 SERVICE BUSINESS OR CALLING NOT OTHERWISE TAXED.
   Upon every person engaged or continuing within the corporate limits in any
service business or calling not otherwise specifically taxed under this
subchapter there is likewise hereby levied and shall be collected a tax equal
to 0.5% of the gross income of any such business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.055 BUSINESS OF COLLECTING RENTALS, ROYALTIES AND THE LIKE.
   Upon any person, corporation or association or any other legality engaging
or continuing within the corporate limits in the business of collecting incomes
from the use of real or personal property of any interest therein, whether by
lease, conveyance or otherwise, and whether the rent be in the form of rentals,
royalties, fees, interest or otherwise, the tax shall be 0.5% of the gross
income for any such activity (gross income small loans: 0.75%).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.056 EXEMPTIONS; NON-EXEMPT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   There shall be an exemption in every case of $25 the amount of tax
computed under the provisions of this subchapter. A person exercising a
privilege taxable hereunder for a fractional part of the tax year shall be
entitled to an exemption in the sum bearing the proportions to $25 that the
period of time the privilege is exercised bears to a whole year. Only one
exemption shall be allowed to any one person, whether he or she exercises one
or more privilege taxable hereunder.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Insurance companies which pay the state a tax upon premiums,
provided, however, that said exemptions shall not extend to that part of the
gross income of insurance companies which is received for the use of real
property, other than property in which any such company maintains its office or
offices, in this town, whether such income be in the form of a rental or
royalty;
      (2)   Persons engaged in the business of banking, provided, however, that
said exemption shall not extend to that part of the gross income of such
persons which is received for the use of real property owned, other than the
banking house or building in which the business of the bank is transacted,
whether such income be in the form of rental or royalty;
      (3)   Non-profit cemetery companies organized and operated for the
exclusive benefit of their members;
      (4)   Societies, organizations and associations organized and operated
for the exclusive benefit of their members and in their benefit;
      (5)   Corporations, associations and societies organized and operated
exclusively for religious and charitable purposes, provided, however, that the
exemptions of this section shall not apply to corporations or co-operative
associations organized under the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-13-5, as
amended; and
      (6)   Building and loan associations and federal savings and loan
associations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.057 REDUCTIONS OF TAXES; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NORMAL TAX. The tax computed by the application of rules against values
or gross income as set forth in §§
35.048 to
35.055 inclusive, of this subchapter.
      TOTAL NET BALANCE OF TAXES DUE. The total of the normal tax in those
classifications under which only a normal tax is imposed and the total of the
normal tax those classifications under which a normal tax is imposed and the
combined total of all taxes when the tax return shows taxes due under more than
one classification is set forth in §§
35.048 to
35.055, inclusive of this subchapter less exemption at the rate of $25 annually
or at the rate of $2.08 per month for the period actually engaged in business.
   (B)   The normal tax shall be computed by the application of rates against
values or gross income as set forth in §§
35.048 to
35.055 inclusive of this subchapter. The total net balance of taxes due shall
be reduced by the 3% credit allowed herein. The total net balance of taxes due
reduced by the 5% credit is the amount of the tax payable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.058 COMPUTATION OF TAX; PAYMENT.
   (A)   The taxes levied hereunder shall be payable in quarterly installments
on or before the expiration of 30 days from the end of the quarter in which
they accrue. The taxpayer shall, within 30 days from the expiration of each
quarter, make out an estimate of the tax for which he or she is liable for such
quarter, verify the same by oath, and mail the same together with a remittance
in the form required by this subchapter, of the amount of the tax to the Town
Recorder. In estimating the amount of the tax due for each quarter the taxpayer
may deduct one-fourth of the total exemption allowed for the year.
   (B)   Any other provisions of this section notwithstanding, the Town
Council, if it deems it necessary to ensure payment of the tax, may require the
return and payment under this section for periods of shorter duration than
quarter-year periods.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.059 RETURN AND REMITTANCE BY TAXPAYER.
   (A)   On or before the expiration of one month after the end of the tax
year, each taxpayer shall make a return for the entire tax year showing the
gross proceeds of sales or gross income of business, trade or calling, and
compute the amount of tax chargeable against him or her in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter and deduct the amount of quarterly payments (as
hereinbefore provided), if any, and transmit with his or her report a
remittance in the form required by this subchapter covering the residue of the
tax chargeable against him or her to the Town Recorder; such return shall be
signed by the taxpayer, if made by an individual, or by the president, vice
president, secretary or treasurer of a corporation, if made on behalf of a
corporation.
   (B)   If made on behalf of a partnership, joint adventure, association,
trust or any other group or combination acting as a unit, any individual
delegated by such firm, co-partnership, joint adventure, association, trust or
any other group or combination acting as a unit shall sign the return on behalf
of the taxpayer. The Town Council, for good cause shown, may extend the time
for making the annual return on the application of any taxpayer and grant such
reasonable additional time within which to make the same as may, by it, be
deemed advisable.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.060 ERRONEOUS COMPUTATION.
   (A)   If the taxpayer shall make any clerical error which shall be apparent
on the face of the return in computing the tax assessable against him or her,
the Town Recorder shall correct such error or reassess the proper amount of
taxes, and notify the taxpayer of his or her action by mailing to him or her
promptly a copy of the corrected assessment, and any additional tax for which
such taxpayer may be liable shall be paid within 15 days after the receipt of
such statement.
   (B)   If the amount already paid exceeds that which should have been paid on
the basis of the tax so recomputed, the excess so paid shall be immediately
refunded to the taxpayer. The taxpayer may, at his or her election, apply an
overpayment credit to taxes subsequently accruing hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.061 ASSESSMENT OF TAX WHEN INSUFFICIENTLY RETURNED.
   If the Town Council believes that the tax imposed by this subchapter is
insufficiently returned by a taxpayer, either because the taxpayer has failed
to properly remit the tax or has failed to make a return, or has made a return
which is incomplete, deficient or otherwise erroneous, it may proceed to
investigate and determine or estimate the tax liability of the taxpayer and
make an assessment therefor.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.062 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If the Town Council believes that the collection of any tax which it
is required to administer will be jeopardized by delay, it shall thereupon make
an assessment of the tax, noting that fact upon the assessment. The amount
assessed shall be immediately due and payable. Unless the taxpayer against whom
a jeopardy assessment is made petitions for reassessment within 20 days after
service of notice of the jeopardy assessment, such an assessment becomes final.
   (B)   A petition for reassessment by a person against whom a jeopardy
assessment has been made must be accompanied by such security as the Town
Council may deem necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.063 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT; PETITION FOR REASSESSMENT.
   The Town Council shall give to the taxpayer written notice of any assessment
made pursuant to this subchapter. Unless the taxpayer to whom a notice of
assessment is directed shall, within 30 days after service thereof (except in
the case of jeopardy assessments), either personally or by registered mail,
file with the Town Council a petition in writing, verified under oath by said
taxpayer or his or her duly authorized agent, having knowledge of the facts,
setting forth with definiteness and particularity the items of the assessment
objected to, together with the reason for such objections, said assessments
shall become and be deemed conclusive and the amount thereof shall be payable
at the end of the 30-day period. In every case where a petition for
reassessment as above described is filed, the Town Council shall assign a time
and place for the hearing of same and shall notify the petitioner of such
hearing by written notice at least 20 days in advance thereof and such hearing
shall be held within 60 days from the filing of the petition for reassessment
unless continued by agreement or by the Town Council for good cause. The
hearing shall be informal. At such hearing evidence may be offered to support
the assessment or to prove that it is incorrect. After such hearing the Town
Council shall, within a reasonable time, give notice in writing, of the
decision. Unless an appeal is taken within 30 days from service of this notice,
the Town Council’s decision shall be final.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.064 APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken by the taxpayer to the Circuit Court of this
county within 30 days after he or she shall have received notice from the Town
Council of its determination as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The appeal shall be taken by written notice to the town and
served as an origianl notice. When said notice is so served it shall, with the
return thereon, be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
docketed as other cases with the taxpayer as plaintiff and the town as
defendant.
      (2)   The plaintiff shall file with such Clerk a bond for the use of the
defendant, with sureties approved by such Clerk, in penalty double the amount
of tax appealed from, and in no case shall the bond be less than $50,
conditioned that the plaintiff shall perform the orders of the Court.
   (C)   (1)   The Court shall hear the appeal ard determine anew all questions
submitted to it on appeal from the determination of the Town Council. In such
appeal a certified copy of the Town Council’s assessment shall be admissible
and shall constitute prima facie evidence of the tax due under the provisions
of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Court shall render its decree thereon and a certified copy of
said decree shall be filed by the Clerk of said Court with the town which shall
then correct the assessment in accordance with said decree. An appeal may be
taken by the taxpayer or the town to the Supreme Court of Appeals of this state
in the same manner that other appeals are taken.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.065 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Any written notice required by this subchapter shall, unless otherwise
specifically provided, be served upon the taxpayer personally or by registered
mail.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.066 TAX YEAR.
   The assessment of taxes herein made and the returns required therefor shall
be for the year ending on December 31. If the taxpayer, in exercising a
privilege taxable under this subchapter, keeps the books reflecting the same on
a basis other than the calendar year, he or she may, with the assent of the
Town Council, make his or her annual returns and pay taxes for the year
covering his or her accounting period, as shown by the method of keeping his or
her books.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.067 TAX CUMULATIVE.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be in addition to all other
licenses and taxes levied by law; as a condition precedent to engaging in any
business, trade or calling. A person exercising a privilege taxable under this
subchapter, subject to the payment of all licenses and charges which are
condition precedent to exercising the privilege taxed, may exercise the
privilege for the current tax year upon the condition that he or she shall pay
the tax accruing under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.068 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Every remittance of taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be made by
cash, bank draft, certified check or money order, to the Town of Oceana, and
the Town Recorder shall issue his or her receipt therefor to the taxpayer and
pay the moneys into the General Fund of the town to be kept and accounted for
as provided by law.
   (B)   If any taxpayer fails to make the return required by this subchapter,
or makes his or her return but fails to remit in whole or in part the proper
amount of tax, there shall be added to the amount of the tax unpaid, from the
date such tax should have been paid, a penalty in the amount of 5% of the tax
for the first month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency and 1% of the tax for
each succeeding month, or fraction thereof, of delinquency; provided, however,
that if such failure is due to reasonable cause, the Town Council may waive or
remit in whole or in part these penalties.
   (C)   If the failure to pay is due to fraud or intent to evade this
subchapter and the rates and regulations promulgated thereunder, there shall be
added an additional penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties.
   (D)   The penalties so added shall be collected at the same time and in the
same manner and as a part of the tax.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.069 TAX A DEBT; LIEN OF UNPAID TAX; RECORDATION OF LIEN.
   A tax due and unpaid under this subchapter shall be a debt due the town. It
shall be a personal obligation of the taxpayer and shall be a lien upon the
property of the taxpayer; provided, that such lien shall be subject to the
restrictions and conditions embodied in W. Va. Code §§ 38-10C-1 and 38-10C-2,
and conditions embodied in W. Va. Code Chapter 11, Article 10, and any
amendment made or which may hereafter be made thereto.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-26-1992)
§ 35.070 COLLECTION BY ACTION OR SUIT; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The town may collect any tax, interest and penalty due and unpaid
under the provisions of this subchapter by action in debt, assumpsit, motion
for judgment or other appropriate proceeding; or by a suit to enforce the lien
therefor; and, if the tax due and unpaid under this subchapter is $300 or less,
by suit in the court of any justice having jurisdiction of the taxpayer or of
his or her property. If the failure of any taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter shall have continued 60 days, the town may
proceed to obtain an injunction restraining the taxpayer from doing business in
the town until he or she fully complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
In any proceeding under this subchapter upon judgment or decree for the
plaintiff it shall be awarded its costs.
   (B)   In the event a business subject to the tax imposed by this subchapter
shall be overrated in connection with a receivership or insolvency proceeding,
the court under whose direction such business is operated shall, by the entry
or a proper order in the cause, make provision for the regular payment of such
taxes is the same become due.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.071 PAYMENT WHEN PERSON SELLS OUT OR QUITS BUSINESS; LIEN; LIABILITY OF
SUCCESSOR.
   (A)   Any person exercising any privilege taxable under this subchapter who
shall sell out his or her business or stock of goods, or shall cease doing such
business, shall file the return prescribed by this subchapter and remit the
entire tax that may be chargeable against him or her because of all business
done, within 30 days after selling out his or her business or stock of goods,
or ceasing to do such business. The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be a
lien upon the property of such person.
   (B)   The successor in business of any such person shall withhold so much of
the purchase money as will satisfy the taxes and penalty which may be due until
the former owner shall produce a receipt from the Town Recorder evidencing the
payment of such taxes and penalty. If the purchaser of a business or stock of
goods shall fail to withhold purchase money as above provided, and the taxes
and penalty shall remain unpaid after expiration of the 30-day period allowed
for payment thereof, he or she shall be personally liable for the payment of
all such taxes and penalty, and the same shall be recoverable by the town by
action or suit as provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.072 PREREQUISITE TO FINAL SETTLEMENT WITH CONTRACTOR.
   All municipal officers and agents making contracts on behalf of the town
shall withhold payment in the final settlement of such contracts until the
receipt of a certificate from the State Tax Commissioner and the Town Recorder
to the effect that all taxes levied or accrued, under this subchapter against
the contractor have been paid. Any official violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned not exceeding one year in the county jail, or shall
be subject to both said fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.073 PRIORITY IN DISTRIBUTION IN RECEIVERSHIP AND THE LIKE; PERSONAL
LIABILITY OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   In the distribution, voluntary or compulsory, in receivership, bankruptcy or
otherwise, of the estate of any person, firm or corporation, all taxes due and
unpaid under this subchapter shall be paid from the first money available for
distribution in priority to all claims, except taxes and debts due the United
States which under federal law are given priority over the debts and liens
created by this subchapter. Any person charged with the administration of an
estate who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be personally
liable for any taxes accrued and unpaid under this subchapter, which are
chargeable against the person, firm or corporation whose estate is in
administration.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.074 CERTIFICATE TO CLERK OF COURT OF ASSESSMENT OF TAXES.
   The town for the more effective collection of the tax may file with the
Clerk of the County Court a certified copy of an assessment of taxes under this
subchapter. A certificate so filed shall be recorded in a book provided for the
purpose, and thereafter stall constitute binding notice of the lien created by
this subchapter upon all lands of the taxpayer located in the county as against
all parties whose interest arose after such recordation. Upon payment of taxes
delinquent under this subchapter the lien of which shall have been recorded the
Town Recorder shall certify in duplicate the fact and amount of payment and the
balance due, if any, and shall forward the certificates, one to the taxpayer
and one to the Clerk of the County Court. The Clerk of the County Court shall
record the certificate in the book in which releases are recorded, without
payment of any additional fee. From the date that such certificate is admitted
to record the land of the taxpayer in the county shall be free from any lien
for taxes under this subchapter accrued to the date that the certificate was
issued.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.075 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The town may distrain upon any goods, chattels or intangibles represented by
negotiable evidences of indebtedness, of any taxpayer delinquent under this
subchapter for the amount of all taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid
hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.076 ADMINISTRATION OF SUBCHAPTER BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The administration of this subchapter is vested in and shall be exercised by
the Town Council which shall prescribe forms and reasonable rules in conformity
with this subchapter for the making of returns and for the ascertainment,
assessment and collection of the taxes imposed hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.077 TOWN AUTHORIZED TO INSPECT STATE TAX RETURNS.
   The Mayor of the town is hereby authorized to submit a written request to
the State Tax Commissioner and appoint and authorize an agent of the town to
inspect and make copies of state gross sales tax returns filed in the
Commissioner’s office by taxpayers of the town, for the purpose of securing
information for municipal tax purposes; and, the Town Recorder is hereby
authorized and directed to pay from the general funds of the town, or furnish
sufficient security for such reasonable cost and expense as may be necessary to
obtain such information, as may be required by the said Commissioner.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 35.078 PREPARATION AND DISCLOSURE OF LIST OF DELINQUENT BUSINESS AND
OCCUPATION TAXPAYERS.
   (A)   Delinquent list preparation.
      (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare the delinquent list in a manner set
forth in W. Va. Code § 8-13-25.
      (2)   The Treasurer will monitor delinquent B&O taxpayers and all
taxpayers who become three or more quarters delinquent shall be added to the
list of delinquent business and occupation taxpayers and remain on the list
until the arrears is paid in full.
      (3)   The list of delinquent business and occupation taxpayers shall
include the name of the delinquent taxpayer, name of the business and the
quarters in which the delinquency arises.
      (4)   The list of delinquent business and occupation taxpayers shall be
published quarterly unless the list is blank, at which time no list must be
published.
      (5)   For each list of delinquent business and occupation taxpayers
published by the municipality, and prior to such publication, the Treasurer
shall take an oath as set forth in W. Va. Code § 8-13-25(c), to be included in
or attached to the delinquent list, certified by the Town Recorder or some
other person duly authorized to administer oaths, in form and effect as
follows:
“I, ________________, Treasurer of the Town of Oceana, do swear, to the best of
my knowledge and belief, that the foregoing list delinquent business and
occupation taxes to be published on, is complete and accurate, and, as of the
date of this oath, that I have not received payment from any of the entities
listed for the delinquent amounts included in the list.”
   (B)   Publication and posting of delinquent tax list; costs.
      (1)   A copy of the list of delinquent business and occupation taxpayers
shall be posted on the front door of Town Hall or other municipal buildings
used to conduct municipal business, shall be published as a Class I-0 legal
advertisement in the newspaper or other media, and may be posted on the
municipality’s website and social media. The list may also be published in such
other reasonable manner as determined by the municipality to provide notice of
the delinquency without incurring unnecessary costs related to the publication.
      (2)   To cover the costs of preparing, publishing and posting the list of
delinquent business and occupation taxpayers, a reasonable charge may be added
to the amount owed by a taxpayer included in any such list, in addition to the
tax, interest and penalty already owed by the taxpayer.
   (C)   Notice of delinquent lists to the Town Council and retention of list
by town. A copy of each published list of delinquent business and occupation
taxpayers shall be provided to the Town Council of the municipality not later
than the first regular meeting of the Town Council after the publication. A
copy of the delinquent list shall be retained by the official designated for a
period of not less than three years.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2017)
§ 35.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse to
collect or to pay the tax or to willfully refuse to make the return required to
be made by §§
35.001 through
35.013; or to willfully make any false or fraudulent return or false statement
in any return with the intent to defraud any taxing authority; or to willfully
evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof; or for any person to
willfully aid or abet another in any attempt to evade the payment of the tax,
or any part thereof; or for any officer, partner or principal of any
corporation or association to willfully make or willfully permit to be made for
such corporation or association any false return, or any false statement in any
return authorized by §§
35.001 through
35.013, with the intent to evade the payment of this tax.
      (2)   Any person willfully violating any of the provisions of §§
35.001 through
35.013 shall for the first offense be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for a
period of not more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned. For each offense
after the first offense, such person shall be guilty of a felony, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less that $1,000 nor more than $10,000,
or imprisoned in the penitentiary not less than one nor more than three years,
or in the discretion of the court be confined in jail not more that one year,
or both fined and imprisoned.
      (3)   Every prosecution for any offense arising under §§
35.001 through
35.013 shall be commenced within three years after the offense was committed,
notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary.
      (4)   Proceedings against any person under §§
35.001 through
35.013 shall be initiated in the county of this state wherein such person
resides if any element of the offense occurs in such county of residence, or if
no element of the offense occurs in such county of residence, then in the
county where the offense was committed.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         EVADE. To willfully and fraudulently commit any act with the intent of
depriving the state of payment of any tax which there is a known legal duty to
pay.
         FRAUD. Any false representation or concealment as to any material fact
made by any person with the knowledge that it is not true and correct, with the
intention that such representation or concealment be relied upon by the state.
         WILLFULLY. The intentional violation of a known legal duty to perform
any act, required to be performed by any provision of §§
35.001 through
35.013, in respect of which the violation occurs; provided, that the mere
failure to perform any act shall not be a willful violation under §§
35.001 through
35.013. A willful violation of §§
35.001 through
35.013 requires that the defendant has had knowledge of or notice of a duty to
perform such act, and that the defendant, with knowledge of or notice of such
duty, intentionally failed to perform such act.
   (C)   (1)   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under §§
35.025 through
35.033 shall be a debt due this municipality. It shall be a personal obligation
of the purchaser which shall be enforceable as provided in W. Va. Code § 8-13-
15, as amended, or in any other manner now or hereafter provided by law for
compelling the payment of taxes due municipalities.
      (2)   Any purchaser failing or refusing to pay the tax hereby imposed and
levied and any seller or purchaser violating any of the provisions hereof or
any lawful rule and regulation promulgated hereunder shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100.
The failure or refusal to pay the tax for public utility service purchased,
used or consumed during different periodic statement periods shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to make the return
provided to be made by §§
35.045 through
35.077; or to make any false or fraudulent return or false statement in any
return, with intent to defraud the town, or to evade the payment of the tax, or
any part thereof, imposed by §§
35.045 through
35.077; or for any person to aid or abet another in any attempt to evade the
payment of the tax, or any part thereof, imposed by §§
35.045 through
35.077; or for the president, vice president, secretary or treasurer of any
corporation to make or permit to be made for any corporation or association any
false return, or any false statement in any return required in §§
35.045 through
35.077, with the intent to evade the payment of any tax hereunder, and any
person violating any of the provisions of §§
35.045 through
35.077 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not exceeding one year in the county
jail or punished by both fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court,
within the limitations aforesaid. In addition to the foregoing penalties, any
person who shall knowingly swear to or verify any false or fraudulent return,
or any return containing any false or fraudulent statement with the intent
aforesaid, shall be guilty of the offense of false swearing, and, on conviction
thereof, shall be punished in the manner provided by law. Any corporation for
which a false return, or a return containing a false statement, as aforesaid,
shall be made, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $1,000. The Circuit Court and Criminal Court of the county in
which the offender resides, or, if a corporation, in which it carries on
business, shall have concurrent jurisdiction to enforce §§
35.045 through
35.077.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-4-1989; Ord. passed 6-14-2007)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Adoption of NIMS
   
36.002   Maintenance of personal vehicles on town owned property
Reimbursement of Postage Expenses for Attorney
   
36.015   Short title
   
36.016   Purposes and findings
   
36.017   Determination
   
36.018   Violations
Prohibition of Tobacco Products on Town-Owned Property
   
36.030   Short title
   
36.031   Purposes and findings
   
36.032   Determinations
   
36.033   Violations
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
36.045   Short title
   
36.046   Purpose
   
36.047   Definitions
   
36.048   Findings
   
36.049   Process of establishing a covered account
   
36.050   Access to covered account information
   
36.051   Credit card payments
   
36.052   Sources and types of red flags
   
36.053   Prevention and mitigation of identity theft
   
36.054   Updating the program
   
36.055   Program administration
   
36.056   Outside service providers
   
36.057   Treatment of address discrepancies
Freedom of Information Act Requests
   
36.070   Short title
   
36.071   Purposes and findings
   
36.072   Determinations
   
36.073   Violations
   
36.074   Rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 ADOPTION OF NIMS.
   The town does hereby establish the National Incident Management System
(NIMS) as the town standard for incident management.
§ 36.002 MAINTENANCE OF PERSONAL VEHICLES ON TOWN OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Prohibition of Maintenance of Personal Vehicles on Town Owned Property”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings. The Town Council has determined that there is
the possibility that personal vehicles are being maintenanced on town owned
property. The Town Council finds and determines that special and extenuating
circumstances presently exist within this town that call for special regulation
of this maintenance of personal vehicles on city owned property.
   (C)   Determinations. The Town Council prohibits maintenance and repair of
personal vehicles on the real estate owned by the town. This maintenance and
repair includes, but is not limited to, the washing of vehicles, oil changes,
body work and mechanic work. There shall be no mechanic work performed by
anyone on anyone else’s vehicles on property owned by the town. The only
exemption from this section is if the personal vehicle of an employee or an
elected official or a member of the public does not start once it has been
parked at the Town Hall. Then, all measures can be performed to get the vehicle
running once again in order to remove it from the property at the Town Hall.
   (D)   Violations.
      (1)   An elected official who uses city vehicles or city purchased fuel
for personal use shall be reported to the West Virginia Ethics Commission.
      (2)   An employee who uses city vehicles or city purchased fuel for
personal use shall be given a letter of reprimand and discipline procedures
found within the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook shall be followed.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2011)
REIMBURSEMENT OF POSTAGE EXPENSES FOR ATTORNEY
§ 36.015 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Attorney Expense
Reimbursement Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.016 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a procedure followed
by the town when the Attorney pays for the delivery of mail on behalf of the
town.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.017 DETERMINATION.
   The Town Council hereby implements the following procedures for the
reimbursement of the Attorney’s postage expenses.
   (A)   At each Council meeting, the Attorney will present copies of envelopes
to verify the postage expenses for the previous month.
   (B)   The Council, Mayor, Recorder and Treasurer can review the copies of
the envelopes mailed on behalf of the town by the Attorney.
   (C)   The Attorney will report to the Council, Mayor, Recorder and Treasurer
the total expense of the postage and will present an invoice to the Treasurer.
   (D)   The Treasurer will pay the Attorney’s invoice as soon as reasonably
possible.
   (E)   The Attorney can present other expenses from time to time to the
Council, such as mileage to a particular meeting, enrollment fees for municipal
classes, or other municipally related expenses and is not limited solely to
reimbursement for postage.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.018 VIOLATIONS.
   Any employee who does not comply with this reimbursement subchapter is
subject to disciplinary procedures from the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
PROHIBITION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS ON TOWN-OWNED PROPERTY
§ 36.030 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Prohibition of
Tobacco Products Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2012)
§ 36.031 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a policy followed by
the town for the usage of tobacco products.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2012)
§ 36.032 DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby implements the following policy.
   (A)   There shall be no tobacco products used inside town buildings,
including town hall, the town pool, the water plant, the sewer plant and any
other town buildings, with the exclusion of the building occupied by the town’s
Fire Department.
   (B)   TOBACCO PRODUCTS are defined as the following but are not limited to:
cigarettes; cigars; chewing tobacco; and snuff.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2012)
§ 36.033 VIOLATIONS.
   Any employee who does not comply with this reimbursement ordinance is
subject to disciplinary procedures from the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2012)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 36.045 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Identity Theft Prevention Program.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.046 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to comply with 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 in order
to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft by identifying and detecting
identity theft red flags and by responding to such red flags in a manner that
will prevent identity theft.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.047 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Other
than “town” and “personal identifying information”, definitions provided in
this section are based on the definitions provided in 16 C.F.R. § 681.2.
   COVERED ACCOUNT.
      (1)   An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains, primarily for personal, family or household purposes, that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions, such as a credit
card account, mortgage loan, automobile loan, margin account, cell phone
account, utility account, checking account, or savings account; and
      (2)   Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains for which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation or
litigation risks.
   CREDIT. The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt
or to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefore.
   CREDITOR. Any person who regularly extends, renews or continues credit; any
person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit and includes utility companies
and telecommunications companies.
   CUSTOMER. A person that has a covered account with a creditor.
   IDENTITY THEFT. A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information
of another person without authority.
   PERSON. A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative or association.
   PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. A person’s credit card account
information, debit card information bank account information and drivers’
license information and for a natural person includes their Social Security
number, mother’s birth name and date of birth.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
   SERVICE PROVIDER. A person that provides a service directly to the town.
   TOWN. The Town of Oceana.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.048 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town is a creditor pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2 due to its
provision or maintenance of covered accounts for which payment is made in
arrears.
   (B)   Covered accounts offered to customers for the provision of town
services include water, sewer and garbage.
   (C)   The city’s previous experience with identity theft related to covered
accounts is as follows: none.
   (D)   The processes of opening a new covered account, restoring an existing
covered account, making payments on such accounts have been identified as
potential processes in which identity theft could occur.
   (E)   (1)   The town limits access to personal identifying information to
those employees responsible for or otherwise involved in opening or restoring
covered accounts or accepting payment for use of covered accounts.
      (2)   Information provided to such employees is entered directly into the
city’s computer system and is not otherwise recorded.
   (F)   The town determines that there is a low risk of identity theft
occurring in the following ways (if any):
      (1)   Use by an applicant of another person’s personal identifying
information to establish a new covered account;
      (2)   Use of a previous customer’s personal identifying information by
another person in an effort to have service restored in the previous customer’s
name;
      (3)   Use of another person’s credit card, bank account or other method
of payment by a customer to pay such customer’s covered account or accounts;
and
      (4)   Use by a customer desiring to restore such customer’s covered
account of another person’s credit card, bank account, or other method of
payment.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.049 PROCESS OF ESTABLISHING A COVERED ACCOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   As a precondition to opening a covered account in the town, each
applicant shall provide the town with personal identifying information of the
customer, including a valid government issued identification card containing a
photograph of the customer or, for customers who are not natural persons, a
photograph of the customer’s agent opening the account.
      (2)   Such applicant shall also provide any information necessary for the
department providing the service for which the covered account is created to
access the applicant’s consumer credit report. Such information shall be
entered directly into the city’s computer system and shall not otherwise be
recorded.
   (B)   Each account shall be assigned an account number and personal
identification number (PIN) which shall be unique to that account. The town may
utilize computer software to randomly generate assigned PINs and to encrypt
account numbers and PINs.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.050 ACCESS TO COVERED ACCOUNT INFORMATION.
   (A)   Access to customer accounts shall be password protected and shall be
limited to authorized town personnel.
   (B)   Such password(s) shall be changed by the Town Treasurer on a regular
basis, shall be at least eight characters in length and shall contain letters,
numbers and symbols.
   (C)   Any unauthorized access to or other breach of customer accounts is to
be reported immediately to the Town Treasurer and Police Chief and the password
changed immediately.
   (D)   Personal identifying information included in customer accounts is
considered confidential and any request or demand for such information shall be
immediately forwarded to the Town Treasurer and the Town Attorney.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.051 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   In the event that credit card payments that are made over the internet are
processed through a third party service provider, such third party service
provider shall certify that it has an adequate identity theft prevention
program in place that is applicable to such payments. All credit card payments
made over the telephone or the city’s website shall be entered directly into
the customer’s account information in the computer data base. Account
statements and receipts for covered accounts shall include only the last four
digits of the credit or debit card or the bank account used for payment of the
covered account.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.052 SOURCES AND TYPES OF RED FLAGS.
   All employees responsible for or involved in the process of opening a
covered account, restoring a covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account shall check for red flags as indicators of possible identity theft and
such red flags may include:
   (A)   Alerts from consumer reporting agencies, fraud detection agencies or
service providers. Examples of alerts include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   A fraud or active duty alert that is included with a consumer
report;
      (2)   A notice of credit freeze in response to a request for a consumer
report;
      (3)   A notice of address discrepancy provided by a consumer reporting
agency;
      (4)   Indications of a pattern of activity in a consumer report that is
inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or
customer, such as:
         (a)   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         (b)   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         (c)   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         (d)   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Examples of suspicious documents include:
      (1)   Documents provided for identification that appear to be altered or
forged;
      (2)   Identification on which the photograph or physical description is
inconsistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer;
      (3)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
information provided by the applicant or customer;
      (4)   Identification on which the information is inconsistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the financial institution
or creditor, such as a signature card or a recent check; or
      (5)   An application that appears to have been altered or forged, or
appears to have been destroyed and reassembled.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identification, such as suspicious address change.
Examples of suspicious identifying information include:
      (1)   Personal identifying information that is inconsistent with external
information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
         (a)   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
or
         (b)   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued, or is
listed on the Social Security Administration’s Death Master File.
      (2)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not
consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer, such as a lack of correlation between the SSN range and date of
birth;
      (3)   Personal identifying information or a phone number or address, is
associated with known fraudulent applications or activities as indicated by
internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor;
      (4)   Other information provided, such as fictitious mailing address,
mail drop addresses, jail addresses, invalid phone numbers, pager numbers or
answering services, is associated with fraudulent activity;
      (5)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other applicants
or customers;
      (6)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar
to the account number or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of applicants or customers;
      (7)   The applicant or customer fails to provide all required personal
identifying information on an application or in response to notification that
the application is incomplete;
      (8)   Personal identifying information is not consistent with personal
identifying information that is on file with the financial institution or
creditor; and
      (9)   The applicant or customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
   (D)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity relating to a covered account.
Examples of suspicious activity include:
      (1)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for an account,
the town receives a request for the addition of authorized users on the
account;
      (2)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments;
      (3)   An account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
         (a)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
and
         (b)   A material change in purchasing or spending patterns.
      (4)   An account that has been inactive for a long period of time is used
(taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage
and other relevant factors);
      (5)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer’s account;
      (6)   The town is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements;
      (7)   The town is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions in
connection with a customer’s account; and
      (8)   The town is notified by a customer, law enforcement or another
person that it has opened a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
   (E)   Notice from customers, law enforcement, victims or other reliable
sources regarding possible identity theft or phishing relating to covered
accounts.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.053 PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event that any town employee responsible for or involved in
restoring an existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered
account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible identity theft with
respect to existing covered accounts, such employee shall use his or her
discretion to determine whether such red flag or combination of red flags
suggests a threat of identity theft. If, in his or her discretion, such
employee determines that identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely
or probable, such employee shall immediately report such red flags to the
Council. If his or her discretion, such employee deems that identity theft is
unlikely or that reliable information is available to reconcile red flags, the
employee shall convey this information to Council, who may in his or her
discretion determine that no further action is necessary. If Council in his or
her discretion determines that further action is necessary, a town employee
shall perform one or more of the following responses, as determined to be
appropriate by Council:
      (1)   Contact the customer;
      (2)   Make the following changes to the account if, after contacting the
customer, it is apparent that someone other than the customer has accessed the
customer’s covered account:
         (a)   Change any account numbers, passwords, security codes or other
security devices that permit access to an account; or
         (b)   Close the account.
      (3)   Cease attempts to collect additional charges from the customer and
decline to sell the customer’s account to a debt collector in the event that
the customer’s account has been accessed without authorization and such access
has caused additional charges to accrue;
      (4)   Notify a debt collector within 24 hours of the discovery of likely
or probable identity theft relating to a customer account that has been sold to
such debt collector in the event that a customer’s account has been sold to a
debt collector prior to the discovery of the likelihood or probability of
identity theft relating to such account;
      (5)   Notify law enforcement, in the event that someone other than the
customer has accessed the customer’s account causing additional charges to
accrue or accessing personal identifying information; or
      (6)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that any town employee responsible for or involved
in opening a new covered account becomes aware of red flags indicating possible
identity theft with respect an application for a new account, such employee
shall use his or her discretion to determine whether such red flag or
combination of red flags suggests a threat of identity theft.
      (2)   If, in his or her discretion, such employee determines that
identity theft or attempted identity theft is likely or probable, such employee
shall immediately report such red flags to Council. If, in its discretion, such
employee deems that identity theft is unlikely or that reliable information is
available to reconcile red flags, the employee shall convey this information to
Council, who may in his or her discretion determine that no further action is
necessary.
      (3)   If in its discretion determines that further action is necessary, a
town employee shall perform one or more of the following responses, as
determined to be appropriate by Council:
         (a)   Request additional identifying information from the applicant;
         (b)   Deny the application for the new account;
         (c)   Notify law enforcement of possible identity theft; or
         (d)   Take other appropriate action to prevent or mitigate identity
theft.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.054 UPDATING THE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Town Council (or board as the case may be) shall annually review
and, as deemed necessary by the Council, update the identity theft prevention
program along with any relevant red flags in order to reflect changes in risks
to customers or to the safety and soundness of the town and its covered
accounts from identity theft.
   (B)   In so doing, the Town Council shall consider the following factors and
exercise its discretion in amending the program:
      (1)   The city’s experiences with identity theft;
      (2)   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      (3)   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft;
      (4)   Updates in the types of accounts that the town offers or maintains;
and
      (5)   Updates in service provider arrangements.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.055 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for oversight of the program and for
program implementation. The Council is responsible for reviewing reports
prepared by staff regarding compliance with red flag requirements and with
recommending material changes to the program, as necessary in the opinion of
the Council to address changing identity theft risks and to identify new or
discontinued types of covered accounts.
   (B)   Any recommended material changes to the program shall be submitted to
the Town Council for consideration by the Council.
      (1)   The Treasurer will report to the Council at least annually, on
compliance with the red flag requirements. The report will address material
matters related to the program and evaluate issues such as:
         (a)   The effectiveness of the policies and procedures of town in
addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of covered
accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
         (b)   Service provider arrangements;
         (c)   Significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and
         (d)   Recommendations for material changes to the program.
   (B)   The Treasurer is responsible for providing training to all employees
responsible for or involved in opening a new covered account, restoring an
existing covered account or accepting payment for a covered account with
respect to the implementation and requirements of the identity theft prevention
program. The Treasurer shall exercise his or her discretion in determining the
amount and substance of training necessary.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.056 OUTSIDE SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   In the event that the town engages a service provider to perform an activity
in connection with one or more covered accounts the Treasurer shall exercise
his or her discretion in reviewing such arrangements in order to ensure, to the
best of his or her ability, that the service provider’s activities are
conducted in accordance with policies and procedures, agreed upon by contract,
that are designed to detect any red flags that may arise in the performance of
the service provider’s activities and take appropriate steps to prevent or
mitigate identity theft.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 36.057 TREATMENT OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCIES.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known as the treatment of address
discrepancies.
   (B)   Purpose. Pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.1, the purpose of this section is
to establish a process by which the town will be able to form a reasonable
belief that a consumer report relates to the consumer about whom it has
requested a consumer credit report when the town has received a notice of
address discrepancy.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NOTICE OF ADDRESS DISCREPANCY. Notice sent to a user by a consumer
reporting agency pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 1681(c)(h)(l), that informs the user
of a substantial difference between the address for the consumer that the user
provided to request the consumer report and the address(es) in the agency’s
file for the consumer. See 16 C.F.R. § 681.1(b).
      TOWN. The Town of Oceana.
   (D)   Policy. In the event that the town receives a notice of address
discrepancy, the town employee responsible for verifying consumer addresses for
the purpose of providing the municipal service or account sought by the
consumer shall perform one or more of the following activities, as determined
to be appropriate by such employee:
      (1)   Compare the information in the consumer report with:
         (a)   Information the town obtains and uses to verify a consumer’s
identity in accordance with the requirements of the customer information
program rules implementing 31 U.S.C. § 5318(1);
         (b)   Information the town maintains in its own records, such as
applications for service, change of address notices, other customer account
records or tax records; or
         (c)   Information the town obtains from third-party sources that are
deemed reliable by the relevant town employee.
      (2)   Verify the information in the consumer report with the consumer.
   (E)   Furnishing consumer’s address to consumer reporting agency.
      (1)   In the event that the town reasonably confirms that an address
provided by a consumer to the town is accurate, the town is required to provide
such address to the consumer reporting agency from which the town received a
notice of address discrepancy with respect to such consumer. This information
is required to be provided to the consumer reporting agency when:
         (a)   The town is able to form a reasonable belief that the consumer
report relates to the consumer about whom the town requested the report;
         (b)   The town establishes a continuing relation with the consumer;
and
         (c)   The town regularly and in the ordinary course of business
provides information to the consumer reporting agency from which it received
the notice of address discrepancy.
      (2)   Such information shall be provided to the consumer reporting agency
as part of the information regularly provided by the town to such agency for
the reporting period in which the town establishes a relationship with the
customer.
   (F)   Methods of confirming consumer addresses. The town employee charged
with confirming consumer addresses may, in his or her discretion, confirm the
accuracy of an address through one or more of the following methods:
      (1)   Verifying the address with the consumer;
      (2)   Reviewing the city’s records to verify the consumer’s address;
      (3)   Verifying the address through third party sources; or
      (4)   Using other reasonable processes.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUESTS
§ 36.070 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “FOIA Response
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.071 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a procedure followed
by the town when a FOIA request is received by the town, whether received by
the Treasurer, the Attorney or by any other town official or employee.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.072 DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby implements the following procedures for response to
a FOIA request.
   (A)   At all times the West Virginia State Code FOIA statutes will be
followed by the town.
   (B)   All speed will be exerted by all town officials and employees to see
that the FOIA statutes of the state are not violated.
   (C)   A FOIA request form will be given by the Treasurer to all individuals
who submit a verbal or written request, except in some cases, where the request
is made by an attorney on behalf of a client and the town has already received
a written request.
   (D)   A FOIA investigation form will be sent by the attorney for the town to
all elected town officials and to every employee who might have information
regarding a particular FOIA request.
   (E)   All town officials and employees agree to give any and all information
and/or documents to the attorney in a timely manner for the FOIA response so
that the attorney can determine what should be exempted from the FOIA request
and what should be sent to fulfill the request.
   (F)   The Attorney must work to fulfill all statutory deadlines as well and
complete the FOIA requests to the best of his or her ability.
   (G)   All town employees and officials agree to sign all internal documents
for the purpose of documentation of the city’s and the attorney’s files.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.073 VIOLATIONS.
   Any employee who does not comply with a FOIA request or any internal
requests or does not respond in a timely manner is subject to disciplinary
procedures from the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2012)
§ 36.074 RATES.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “FOIA
Rate Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings. The Town Council has determined that there
needs to be certain monetary rates followed by the town when a FOIA request is
received by the town.
   (C)   Determinations. The Town Council hereby implements the following
expense schedule for response to a FOIA request.
      (1)   Any person, corporation or other entity must pay $1 per page of
information requested.
      (2)   Any person, corporation or other entity must pay $5 per video
requested.
   (D)   Violations. Any employee who does not enforce this rate schedule for a
FOIA request is subject to disciplinary procedures from the Town of Oceana
Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2015)
CHAPTER 37: JUDICIAL
Section
Municipal Court
   
37.01   Municipal Court created; presiding judge
   
37.02   Judge; bond
   
37.03   Judge; powers and duties generally
   
37.04   Docket; allocation of fees, fines and costs
   
37.05   Record of traffic cases; Traffic Violations Bureau
   
37.06   Appeals; minimum fine
   
37.07   Enforcement and collection of fines, costs and fees
   
37.08   Costs generally
   
37.09   Persons authorized to issue warrants for offenses
   
37.10   Continuation of previous action
   
37.11   Provisions severable
   
37.12   Jury trial
   
37.13   Failure to appear for summons, warrant or citation
   
37.14   Community service work substituted in lieu of fine
   
37.15   Failure to comply with court ordered sentencing and contempt
   
37.16   Probation
   
37.17   Alternative sentencing
   
37.18   Court reimbursement
MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 37.01 MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED; PRESIDING JUDGE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Municipal Court of the town, which shall
be presided over by the Municipal Court Judge.
   (B)   The Municipal Court Judge shall be appointed by the Council by a
majority vote of the members thereof and shall serve as such municipal judge
for a period of two years, his or her term of office commencing on July 1 and
continuing for a period of one year. There shall be no limit as the number of
terms a judge may serve.
   (C)   The municipal judge shall receive such compensation as fixed for the
judge by the Council.
   (D)   The Council may, at its discretion, appoint an alternate judge,
compensation for which shall be as fixed by the Council.
   (E)   In the absence of the municipal judge, the alternate judge shall
preside.
   (F)   The municipal judge shall attend and complete the next available
course of instruction in rudimentary principals of law once appointed unless he
or she has been admitted to practice law in this state.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.02 JUDGE; BOND.
   No person shall exercise any power or perform any duty as Municipal Court
Judge until he or she has qualified for such office by giving such faithful
performance and true accounting bond as may be required by the Town Council,
under which he or she shall be responsible for all town funds coming into his
or her hands by virtue of his or her office.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.03 JUDGE; POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Judge shall be a conservator of the peace within
the town and, insofar as any ordinance of the town is concerned, shall have and
exercise all such powers and duties in criminal cases as does a magistrate in
any lawful exercise under the statutes of the state; and he or she shall also
be, ex officio, a magistrate within the town and shall, within the town, have
and exercise all the powers relating to crime and perform all duties fixed by
law upon a magistrate; except, that he or she shall have no jurisdiction over
civil cases.
   (B)   The Municipal Court Judge shall have further powers and perform such
other duties as may be, from time to time, prescribed or conferred by any law
of the state or by ordinance of the town, as well as the judicial powers
conferred upon the Mayor, insofar as such provisions are not in conflict with
the state Constitution or any state statute which takes precedence.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.04 DOCKET; ALLOCATION OF FEES, FINES AND COSTS.
   (A)   There shall be a docket of the Municipal Court, and it shall be the
duty of the municipal judge to docket fully thereon all cases in the Court, and
show therein all fees, fines and costs adjudged and collected.
   (B)   The Municipal Court Judge shall, at least once a month, make a written
report to the Town Council and Treasurer, showing a total of all receipts for
the previous month.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.05 RECORD OF TRAFFIC CASES; TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Municipal Court Judge shall keep or cause to be kept a record of every
traffic complaint and other legal form of traffic charge deposited with or
presented to the Municipal Court of its Traffic Violations Bureau, if and when
such bureau is established, and shall keep a record of every official action by
the Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in reference thereto, including, but
not limited, to a record of every conviction, forfeiture of bail, judgment or
acquittal, and the amount of fine or forfeiture resulting from every traffic
complaint deposited with or presented to the Court of Traffic Violations
Bureau.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic code enforcement, see §§
70.15 to
70.22
   Traffic control; conformity with State Manual, see §
70.36
§ 37.06 APPEALS; MINIMUM FINE.
   (A)   (1)   Every person sentenced by the municipal judge to imprisonment or
to the payment of a fine of $10 or more shall be allowed an appeal to the
Circuit Court of the county; the procedure upon appeal from the Municipal Court
shall be the same as that for an appeal from a Magistrate’s Court.
      (2)   The defendant has 20 days from sentencing to appeal the ruling to a
higher court. It is the responsibility of the defendant or the defendant’s
attorney to notify the Municipal Court of the Appeal.
      (3)   The presiding Municipal Judge may place the defendant on an appeal
bond upon notification of the appeal to a higher court.
   (B)   In no case shall a fine of less than $10 be imposed if a defendant,
his or her agent or attorney objects thereto.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.07 ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION OF FINES, COSTS AND FEES.
   Upon failure to pay any fine or costs adjudged against him or her, the
municipal judge may be authorized to suspend the driving privileges of the
defendant until all fines or costs have been satisfied. In addition, the
municipal judge shall have the same authority and power in collection of fines,
fees and costs as are given to a magistrate under the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.08 COSTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The town shall be entitled to and the municipal judge may collect on
behalf of the town, in all cases appearing before him or her involving
violations of the town ordinances, the same costs, fees and allowances, and in
the same amounts as a magistrate may collect, according to state law.
   (B)   Neither the Mayor, municipal judge, Recorder, any police officer, nor
any other person shall be entitled to or receive any fee for any services
rendered in or about any trial or other proceeding before the Municipal Court
of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.09 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE WARRANTS FOR OFFENSES.
   The municipal judge shall have the authority to issue warrants for all
offenses committed within the police jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.10 CONTINUATION OF PREVIOUS ACTION.
   Any previous action of Council relating to the establishment or function of
a Municipal Court, are continued in effect and shall be exercised by the
Municipal Court, except however, those which are in conflict with this chapter
or in conflict with the laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.11 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be construed as severable and should
any section or part thereof be held unconstitutional or for any reason invalid
or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unaffected portions
shall remain valid and shall give full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.12 JURY TRIAL.
   (A)   Only a defendant who has been charged with an offense for which a
period of confinement in jail may be imposed is entitled to a trial by jury. If
a Municipal Court Judge determines, upon demand of a defendant, to conduct a
trial by jury in a criminal manner, it shall follow the procedures set forth in
the rules of criminal procedures for magistrate courts promulgated by the
Supreme Court of Appeals, except that the jury in a Municipal Court shall
consist of 12 members.
   (B)   Any time a trial by jury is granted by the Municipal Court Judge, the
defendant shall be responsible for the payment of the juror’s fees of $10 per
day of service for each juror to the Clerk of the Court for disbursement to
each juror. Also the defendant shall pay the Clerk a sum of $200 for
administrative fees (mailings, notices and costs associated) for the trial.
These fees and costs are passed to the defendant, only if the defendant is
found guilty.
   (C)   The jury pool for Municipal Court shall be comprised of the voting
population with the municipal limits of the town.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Judge shall appoint two commissioners of the jury
upon notification of the need for a jury trial. The jury commissioners shall be
responsible for obtaining the current voters listed for the municipality from
the County Clerk’s office. After receipts of the voters lists from the county,
the jury commissioners will assemble jury tabs to be deposited in a secure
locked box from which the draft of jurors will be selected.
   (E)   Two weeks before the date of the trial, the commissioners will select
30 names from the locked box. The commissioners will then forward a letter
detailing the need for a jury for a Municipal Court trial and the date, time
and location for the potential jurors to appear.
   (F)   When the jurors appear, the prosecuting attorney and defense attorney
(or defendant) will have the potential to strike down to 14 persons. Twelve
persons will serve as jurors and two will serve as alternates.
   (G)   Instructions to juries will be handed down from the Municipal Court
Judge at the time of the trial. Appeals from jury trials will be handled in the
same manner as any other appeal. They are appealed to the Circuit Court of the
county.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.13 FAILURE TO APPEAR FOR SUMMONS, WARRANT OR CITATION.
   (A)   If, having been notified at the time of issuance of a citation, by any
officer of the municipal Police Department a defendant fails to appear within a
given time period, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and assessed
fines and costs not more that $1,000 and/or up to 30 days in jail time in the
Southern Regional Jail.
   (B)   If a defendant fails to respond or appear for a summons or warrant
issued by the Municipal Court Judge, he or she shall be found guilty of a
misdemeanor and assessed fines and costs of not more than $1,000 and/or up to
30 days jail time in the Southern Regional Jail.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.14 COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK SUBSTITUTED IN LIEU OF FINE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
municipal judge may substitute, in lieu of the imposition of a sentence of
incarceration or imposition of a fine, community service work for such
incarceration or fine. Where community service work is ordered as a substitute
on a sentence of incarceration, an eight-hour work day shall extinguish one day
of any sentence of incarceration. The minimum wage in effect at the time
sentencing is imposed shall be used to compute the amount of community service
work necessary to extinguish the fine. At the discretion of the Court, the
sentence credits may run concurrently or consecutively.
   (B)   Any community service ordered pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be performed for government entities or charitable or nonprofit
entities and be supervised by the Chief of Police of the municipality or his or
her designee.
   (C)   Persons sentenced under the provisions of this section remain under
the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court. The Court may withdraw the community
service sentence at anytime by order entered with or without notice and order a
person previously sentenced to community service to serve the term of
incarceration or to pay the fine available to the Court upon the person’s
conviction; provided, that any community service work performed before the
community service sentence is withdrawn shall be credited against any term of
incarceration or fine imposed.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.15 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH COURT ORDERED SENTENCING AND CONTEMPT.
   (A)   If any defendant, who has been ordered by the Court to comply with
sentencing, fails to comply with any terms of said sentence, they are guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less that $50 nor more that $1,000 and/or
confined to the Southern Regional Jail for not more that 30 days.
   (B)   The Court and the judge thereof may issue an attachment for contempt
and punish them summarily. The Court shall not impose a monetary fine of more
than $50 or imprison more than ten days for each charge of contempt. No Court
shall impose a fine for contempt unless the defendant be present in Court, or
shall have been served with a rule of the Court to show cause, on some certain
day, and shall have failed to appear and show cause.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.16 PROBATION.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Judge may consider placing a defendant on
probation as prescribed by the rules and regulations of Magistrate Court
proceedings in the state. If the defendant fails to comply with the terms of
probation specified at the time of sentencing, he or she will be in violation
of court ordered sentencing-probation. The prosecuting attorney of this
municipality will file the charge of violation of probation.
   (B)   (1)   Once the charge has been filed, a hearing for revocation of the
probation will be held.
      (2)   If, after the hearing, the defendant is found to be in violation of
his or her probation, the municipal judge may make alterations to the
probation, revoke the probation, and/or sentence in accord with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.17 ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING.
   (A)   This Municipal Court and its officers have the same authority as the
magistrate courts of the state to utilize alternative sentencing programs.
Programs such as day report, home confinement, community service or pre-
judgment alternative disposition may be imposed as part of a plea agreement,
sentencing, probation or bond.
   (B)   The sentencing is the decision of the municipal judge and may be
supervised by a County Sheriff or Day Report Supervisor in other than the
county in which the defendant resides.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
§ 37.18 COURT REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   All charges brought before the Municipal Court that carry
incarceration as a penalty shall result in a remittance to the regional jail
authority of a flat rate of $40 and a $2 flat rate remitted to the General Fund
of the town for processing.
   (B)   All charges bought before the Municipal Court will reflect the
following costs remitted to the State Treasurer’s office:
 
Community Corrections Fee       $10
Crime Victims Reparations Fund  $8
Driving Under the Influence Fee $55 and 20% of DUI fine assessed
Law Enforcement Training Fund   $2
 
   (C)   All charges brought before the Municipal Court will reflect the
following costs remitted to the General Fund for the town for an administrative
fee for court of $20.
   (D)   The above noted are to be added to all cases, as applicable, and
hereby known as “court costs”. They are in addition to any fines and penalties
in accordance with the Municipal Court and are effective at the date of
passage.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   REFUSE AND GARBAGE
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Illegal or fraudulent procurement of water, gas or electric
   
50.02   Tampering with and theft of utilities
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 ILLEGAL OR FRAUDULENT PROCUREMENT OF WATER, GAS OR ELECTRIC.
   Every person who, with intent to injure or defraud, procures, makes or
causes to be made, any pipe, tube, wire or other conductor of gas, water or
electric energy, and connects the same, or causes it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water, or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice or any other
device, by or at which gas, water or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefore, and every person who, with like intent, injures
or alters any gas, water or electric meter, or obstructs its action, shall be
in violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-12-2016; Ord. passed 4-13-2017) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Tampering with and Theft of Utilities Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings. The Town Council has determined that it is
necessary for it to adopt the state code regarding the theft and tampering with
utilities within its jurisdiction.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given within the
West Virginia Code. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular and words in the singular number include the plural.
      TOWN. The Town of Oceana, West Virginia with administrative offices
located on Route 10, Cook Parkway, P.O. Box 190, Oceana, West Virginia 24870.
   (D)   Incorporation of state law.
      (1)   Every person who, with intent to injure or defraud, procures, makes
or causes to be made, any pipe, tube, wire or other conductor of gas, water or
electric energy, and connects the same, or causes it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water, or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice or any other
device, by or at which gas, water or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and every person who, with like intent, injures
or alters any gas, water or electric meter, or obstructs its action, shall be
in violation of this section.
      (2)   Every person who, with intent to injure or defraud, connects, or
causes to be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor or other
instrument with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit or flume for
conducting water, or with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit for
conducting gas, or with any main, service wire or other electric conductor used
for the purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat or motive
services, for the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas or electric energy,
without the knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment
therefor, shall be in violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2006) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
50.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
penalized. The amounts and/or jail time are as follows:
 
First offense  $250 fine and/or 10 days in jail
Second offense $500 fine and/or 15 days in jail
Third offense  $750 fine and/or 30 days in jail
 
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §
50.02(D)(1) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in the county jail not exceeding 12 months, or fined not
exceeding $1,000, or both, in the discretion of the court,
      (2)   Any person who violates §
50.02(D)(2) shall be guilty a misdemeanor; and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be confined in the county jail not exceeding 12 months, or fined not exceeding
$1,000, or both, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 6-8-2006; Ord. passed 5-12-2016; Ord. passed 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 51: REFUSE AND GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Authority
   
51.02   Findings and determination
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Unlawful activities
   
51.05   Residential requirements
   
51.06   Residential fees, charges, procedures for collection and remedies for
nonpayment
   
51.07   Commercial requirements
   
51.08   Commercial fees, charges, procedures for collection and remedies for
nonpayment
   
51.09   Power of Council Chairperson of Garbage Department
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-12-
5 and W. Va. Code §§ 8-11-1 et seq., and amendments thereto, and other
applicable provisions of law.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
§ 51.02 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   It is hereby found, determined and declared as follows. The ordinance
heretofore adopted by the Town Council on May 1, 1955, and amendments thereto,
regulating and providing for refuse collection in the town, are considered and
deemed in variance with the present policies of the Public Service Commission
of the state regarding refuse collection, and in compliance therewith it is
necessary and requisite to amended said ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who for hire, or otherwise, collects, removes or
disposes of refuse.
   REFUSE. All sweepings, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, garbage industrial
or domestic wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals sold as meat, fruit or
other vegetables, or other vegetable matter from kitchens, dining rooms,
markets or places dealing in or handling meats, fowls, fruits, grains or
vegetables; offal, animal excretia, the carcasses of animals, tree or shrub
trimmings, grass clippings, dirt, wood, stone, brick, plastic, or materials
resulting from the demolition, alteration or construction of buildings or
structures, accumulated waste materials or substance which may become
nuisances, including waste material from kitchens, dining rooms and similar
places, whether the liquids have been drained from the same or not; swill, and
ashes, residue resulting from the combustion of coals, coke or wood, in
domestic, industrial or commercial stoves, furnaces or boilers.
   REFUSE DISPOSAL. The disposition of refuse in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the Town Council.
   REFUSE COLLECTIONS. The gathering of refuse containers and their contents
from the premises of improved property and loading contents into removal
vehicles, and returning containers to place where found after contents have
been emptied, for which the charge is made, as provided for in §
51.04(A).
   REFUSE CONTAINERS.
      (1)   A standard container, to be furnished by the user of this garbage
and trash service, which shall be substantially made of metal, to be leak;
proof and water-tight with a tight-fitting metal cover.
      (2)   The Town Council or other proper officer of the trash and garbage
collection service may authorize or direct the use of such other or special
containers as the circumstances of any particular situation may require.
   REFUSE REMOVAL. The hauling and transportation of refuse from point of
collection to point of disposal.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
§ 51.04 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It will be unlawful for any person, except the town, to engage
in or conduct the business of collection, removal or disposal of refuse, within
the municipal limits of the town, and all persons, business houses, firms or
corporations residing in or doing business within the town shall be required to
subscribe to, take and pay for the service provided by trash and garbage
collection service of the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to neglect
or fail to subscribe to such service and to pay for the same at rates
established by the Town Council for the type of service furnished each such
person, firm or corporation.
   (B)   On and after the date when this chapter becomes operative, there shall
be a trash and garbage collection service under the supervision and direction
of the Town Council. This trash and garbage collection service shall be
adequately equipped and supplied with personnel and equipment to properly and
satisfactorily carry out the essential public service of collection, removal
and disposal of refuse produced in the households and places of business of the
citizens of the town. The trash and garbage collection service supervisor, with
the approval of the Council, shall have, and is hereby given, authority to
prescribe, publish, promulgate and enforce any and all reasonable rules and
regulations deemed by him or her necessary or proper, consistent with this
ordinance, to carry out the objects and purposes thereof and for the safety and
health of the citizens of the town in respect to the collection, removal or
disposal of refuse as herein defined.
   (C)   Private scavengers, push cart operators and private garbage collectors
are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting or
disposing of trash and refuse.
   (D)   Persons and firms are hereby prohibited from transporting thereover
trash and refuse along the public streets and alleys of the town for disposal
within or without the town, without first obtaining permission from the
supervisor of the trash and garbage collection service or from the Town
Council.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All persons, business houses, firms or corporations residing in
or doing business within the corporate limits of the town shall be required to
pay the trash and garbage fee of the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
neglect, refuse or fail to pay for the same at rates established by the Town
Council for the type of service for each such person, firm or corporation.
   (B)   Private scavengers, push cart operators and private garbage collectors
are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting or
disposing of trash and refuse.
   (C)   Persons and firms are hereby prohibited from transporting thereover
trash and refuse along the public streets and alleys of the town for disposal
within or without the town, without first obtaining permission from the
supervisor of the trash and garbage collection service or from the Town Council
are hereby ordered deleted.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 RESIDENTIAL FEES, CHARGES, PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION AND REMEDIES FOR
NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   In order to provide this trash and garbage collection service for the
town, on a self-supporting basis, and to finance the operation thereof, there
shall be, and there is hereby, established a schedule of fees, rates and
charges for standard types of refuse, garbage and sanitation service within the
town as follows: Class 1, Residential, minimum charge for standard monthly
service is increased from $15 per month to $19 per month.
   (B)   Under these schedules the town shall not collect, remove or dispose of
the following types of refuse: offal; sewage; animal excretia; the carcasses of
animals, tree or shrub trimmings; or material resulting from the demolition,
repair, alteration or erection, of buildings or structures.
   (C)   If the fee, rate or charges for any of the foregoing services, shall
not be paid within 30 days after the same is due, the amount thereof may be
recovered by the town in any appropriate action in accordance with the laws of
the state. Upon the failure of any person receiving such service to pay for the
same when due, the town may discontinue such service without notice.
   (D)   The town shall have the right to deny standard refuse service, to any
person whose refuse requirements are sufficiently abnormal or different, in the
opinion of the Council, as to justify special handling in which case a special
charge will be made. This shall include those buildings or dwellings not
readily accessible to refuse collectors, or in cases where refuse is not found
in standard containers.
   (E)   (1)   The Town Treasurer’s office shall be in charge of collections of
fees and charges due, and to become due, to the town from the users of this
trash and garbage collection service. Said Town Treasurer’s office shall keep
in his or her office proper records showing all collections made and received
by him or her and shall prepare and deliver to the Town Council each month, or
sooner if requested a detailed statement, in writing, setting out moneys
received for all services during the immediately proceeding period, and show by
names and in other details the persons and firms who have not paid.
      (2)   The Town Council shall prescribe such forms and records as shall be
proper and necessary for the collection and accounting of all moneys for any
and all services under this chapter, the system of accounting prescribed by the
Town Council shall show the amount of revenue received and the application of
the same, and the Mayor shall, at least once a year, cause such accounts to be
properly audited by a competent auditor, and the report of auditor shall be
open for inspection at all times to any taxpayer or citizen of the town, or any
person receiving service under the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   The entire gross revenue derived from the charges mentioned in
this section shall be placed to the credit of a fund and deposited to the
credit of a special account in any duly qualified town depository, to be known
as the town’s Garbage Fund.
      (2)   Also in the annual budget of the town the items of receipts and
disbursements of this trash and garbage collection service shall be set out
separate and apart from those of any other department or service.
   (G)   The Town Council shall have the right to revise the foregoing schedule
of rates and so adjust them that costs will be distributed as equitably as
possible among all citizens of the town on the basis of benefits received. At
no time however, shall rates be continued which are disclosed to be producing
less revenue than is required to meet all obligations and costs involved in
rendering refuse service to the public.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit the
accumulation of refuse in, about or upon premises owned, occupied or used by
them, when and if, in the judgment of the Town Council, such accumulation is
unsightly, unsanitary or hazardous to the property, life, health, safety or
welfare of the people.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to deliver refuse in or upon private property.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or scatter any
garbage, rubbish, trash, ashes or other refuse over or upon any premises,
street or alley, either public or private, or adjacent thereto, and either with
or without the intent to later remove or burn, or to suffer or permit from the
accumulation of refuse, any premises owned, occupied or controlled by such
persons, to become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, unsafe to public
health or hazardous from fire.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit to be stored,
refuse on or about their premises, or the premises occupied by them, unless
such refuse is kept separately in standard trash and garbage containers as
defined in this chapter.
   (L)   All persons, firms, and corporations using the essential service or
services provided for in this chapter within the municipal limits of the town
shall be required to make all refuse containers available on the ground floor
and accessible to the collectors anytime on the scheduled day of collection for
the particular area in which such users reside. It shall be the duty of all
users of such service to ascertain the collection schedules for the area in
which they reside. If any such user or users shall fail to make their refuse
containers available as herein required the collectors shall refuse to make
such collection, and such refusal shall not constitute a failure of collection.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 COMMERCIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All persons, business houses, firms or corporations residing in
or doing business within the corporate limits of the town shall be required to
pay the trash and garbage fee of the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
neglect, refuse or fail to pay for the same at rates established by the Town
Council for the type of service for each such person, firm or corporation.
   (B)   Private scavengers, push cart operators and private garbage collectors
are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting or
disposing of trash and refuse.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 COMMERCIAL FEES, CHARGES, PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTION AND REMEDIES FOR
NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   In order to provide this trash and garbage collection service for the
town on a self-supporting basis, and to finance the operation thereof, there
shall be, and there is hereby, established a schedule of fees, rates and
charges for standard types of refuse, garbage and sanitation service within the
town as follows:
Class Minimum Charge for Standard Monthly Services
Class               Minimum Charge for Standard Monthly Services
Class 2, Commercial $30 per month
Class 3, Commercial 2 yd. dumpster, $32 per month
Class 4, Commercial 3 yd. dumpster, $48 per month
Class 5, Commercial 4 yd. dumpster, $64 per month
Class 6, Commercial 6 yd. dumpster, $96 per month
Class 7, Commercial 8 yd. dumpster, $128 per month
Class 8, Commercial 10 yd. dumpster, $160 per month
Class 9, Commercial 12 yd. dumpster, $192 per month
 
   (B)   Under these schedules the town shall not collect, remove or dispose of
the following types of refuse: offal; sewage; animal excretia; the carcasses of
animals; tree or shrub trimmings; or material resulting from the demolition,
repair, alteration or erection, of buildings or structures.
   (C)   (1)   If the fee, rate or charges for any of the foregoing services,
shall not be paid within 30 days after the same is due, the amount thereof may
be recovered by the town in any appropriate action in accordance with the laws
of the state.
      (2)   Upon the failure of any person receiving such service to pay for
the same when due, the town may discontinue such service without notice.
   (D)   The town shall have the right to deny standard refuse service, to any
person whose refuse requirements are sufficiently abnormal or different, in the
opinion of the Council, as to justify special handling in which case a special
charge will be made. This shall include those buildings or dwellings not
readily accessible to refuse collectors, or in cases where refuse is not found
in standard containers.
   (E)   The Town Treasurer’s office shall be in charge of collections of fees
and charges due, and to become due, to the town from the users of this trash
and garbage collection service. Said Town Treasurer’s office shall keep in his
or her office proper records showing all collections made and received by him
or her and shall prepare and deliver to the Town Council each twenty-first day
of the month, or sooner if requested a detailed statement, in writing, setting
out moneys received for all sendees during the immediately proceeding period,
and show by names and in other details the persons and firms who have not paid.
The Town Council shall prescribe such forms and records as shall be proper and
necessary for the collection and accounting of all moneys for any and all
services under this chapter, the system of accounting prescribed by the Town
Council shall show the amount of revenue received and the application of the
same, and the Mayor shall, at least once a year, cause such accounts to be
properly audited by a competent auditor, and the report of auditor shall be
open for inspection at all times to any taxpayer or citizen of the town, or any
person receiving service under the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   The entire gross revenue derived from the charges mentioned in
division (E) of this section shall be placed to the credit of a fund and
deposited to the credit of a special account in any duly qualified town
depository, to be known as the town’s Garbage Fund.
      (2)   Also in the annual budget of the town the items of receipts and
disbursements of this trash and garbage collection service shall be set out
separate and apart from those of any other department or service.
   (G)   The Town Council shall have the right to revise the foregoing schedule
of rates and so adjust them that costs will be distributed as equitably as
possible among all citizens of the town on the basis of benefits received. At
no time, however, shall rates be continued which are disclosed to be producing
less revenue than is required to meet all obligations and costs involved in
rendering refuse service to the public.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit the
accumulation of refuse in, about, or upon premises owned, occupied or used by
them, when and if, in the judgment of the Town Council, such accumulation is
unsightly, unsanitary or hazardous to the property, life, health, safety or
welfare of the people.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to deliver refuse in or upon private property.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or scatter any
garbage, rubbish, trash, ashes or other refuse over or upon any premises,
street or alley, either public or private, or adjacent thereto, and either with
or without the intent to later remove or burn, or to suffer or permit from the
accumulation of refuse, any premises owned, occupied or controlled by such
persons, to become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsightly, unsafe to public
health or hazardous from fire.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit to be stored,
refuse on or about their premises, or the premises occupied by them, unless
such refuse is kept separately in standard trash and garbage containers as
defined in this chapter.
   (L)   All persons, firms and corporations using the essential service or
services provided for in this chapter within the municipal limits of the town
shall be required to make all refuse containers available on the ground floor
and accessible to the collectors anytime on the scheduled day of collection for
the particular area in which such users reside. It shall be the duty of all
users of such service to ascertain the collection schedules for the area in
which they reside. If any such user or users shall fail to make their refuse
containers available as herein required, the collectors shall refuse to make
such collection, and such refusal shall not constitute a failure of collection.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
§ 51.09 POWER OF COUNCIL CHAIRPERSON OF GARBAGE DEPARTMENT.
   The supervisor of the trash and garbage collection service of the town, with
the consent and approval, first obtained, of the Town Council, shall have the
right from time to time to establish, issue, revise, revoke and otherwise
promulgate such rules, regulations and procedures as may be necessary or proper
to carry out and fulfill the intent of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Residential fees, §
51.06. In addition to the discontinuation of services, the town may assess a
fine of $100, each successive week that the customer does not pay the garbage
fees to the town. Each succeeding week that a violation of §
51.06 exists shall constitute a new and separate offense.
   (C)   Commercial fees, §
51.08. In addition to the discontinuation of services, the town may assess a
fine of $100, each successive week that the customer does not pay the garbage
fees to the town. Each succeeding week that a violation of §
51.08 exists shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTION AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM
Section
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Authority
   
52.03   Responsibility
   
52.04   Definitions
   
52.05   Administration
   
52.06   Requirements
   
52.07   Degree of hazard
   
52.08   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices
   
52.09   Periodic testing
   
52.10   Records
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Generally. The town recognizes that cross-connections and backflow
conditions either existing or potential in a public water system and/or a
customer’s water distribution system pose a threat to the public health and the
environment. Therefore, the following program and policy apply to the town’s
public water system (water purveyor) and to our customer’s water distribution
system/s/owner).
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public water system served by the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its customer’s
internal distribution water system(s), such contaminants or pollutants that
could backflow due to back-pressure or back-siphonage into the public water
system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination and/or control of cross-connections and
backflow conditions, actual or potential, within a customer’s internal
distribution water system(s), non-potable systems, plumbing fixtures and
processes; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection and backflow prevention control which will effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the public and/or customer’s water system(s) from
cross-connections and backflow conditions.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.02 AUTHORITY.
   By the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 and 1996 amendment, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq., and W. Va. Code Chapter 16, Article 1 and public health
laws, state’s Bureau for Public Health Chapter 1, Article 5B, the water
purveyor has the primary responsibility for preventing water from unapproved
sources, or any other substances, from entering the public potable water
system.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The water purveyor shall be responsible for the protection of the public
potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to
backflow from back-pressure or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants
through the water service connection. If, in the judgement of the water
purveyor, an approved backflow preventer assembly is required at the water
service connection to any customer’s premises, the water purveyor, or his or
her delegated agent, shall give notice in writing to said customer to install
an approved backflow preventer assembly at each service connection to his or
her premises. The customer shall, within 90 days, install such approved
assembly, or assemblies, at his or her own expense, and failure or refusal, or
inability on the part of the customer to install said assembly or assemblies
within 90 days, shall constitute a grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises until such assembly or assemblies have been properly installed.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the water purveyor as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in the state’s Department of Health and Human
Resources regulation, or as suitable for the proposed purpose.
   ASSEMBLY. A backflow preventer usually consisting of a combination of
approved check valve components and additional instrumentation including
approved shutoff valves and test cocks.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply or water source, on or available,
to a customer’s premises other than the water purveyor’s approved public water
system,
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of water flow or introduction of other
liquids, mixtures or substances, caused by a pressure differential in the
distribution pipes of a potable water system.
   BACKFLOW CONDITION(S). Any set of circumstances, actual or potential that
could be construed to create a cross-connection allowing for backflow of a
contaminant or pollutant to enter a potable water system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or assembly, or means designed to prevent
backflow in a potable water system. Most commonly categorized as air gap,
atmospheric vacuum breaker, barometric loop, double check with intermediate
atmospheric vent, double check valve assembly, hose bibb vacuum breaker,
pressure vacuum breaker, reduced pressure principle assembly and residential
dual check.
      (1)   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow
between the free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any
other system. Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of
the supply side pipe diameter but never less than one inch.
      (2)   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents backflow by
creating an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or sub-
atmospheric pressure in a water system.
      (3)   BAROMETRIC LOOP. A fabricated piping arrangement rising at least 35
feet at its topmost point above the highest fixture it supplies. It is utilized
in water supply systems to protect against back-siphonage.
      (4)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently
operating spring loaded check valves with tightly closing shutoff valve on each
side of the check valves, and property located test cocks for the testing of
each check valve.
      (5)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device
having two spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
      (6)   HOSE BIBB VACUUM BREAKER. A device attached to a hose bibb and
which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
      (7)   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An assembly containing an independently
operated spring loaded check valve and an independently operated spring loaded
air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly
includes tightly closing shutoff valves on each side of the valves and property
located test cocks for the testing of the check and air valve.
      (8)   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly
consisting of two independently operating approved check valves with an
automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two check
valves, tightly closing shutoff valves on each side of the check valves plus
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief
valve.
      (9)   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK. A device consisting of two spring loaded,
independently operating check valves. Generally employed immediately downstream
of the water meter to act as a fixture isolation device.
   BACKPRESSURE. A condition in which the customer’s system pressure is greater
than the water purveyor’s system pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the primary source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure or negative
pressure in the potable water system.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that serves at least 25
residents year round or that has 15 service connections serving year round
residents.
   CONTAINMENT (EXTERNAL PROTECTION). A method of backflow prevention which
requires a backflow preventer assembly be installed after the meter and prior
to any water service entrance.
   CONTAMINANT. A substance that will impair the quality of potable water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential, direct or indirect, connection
between the public water system and an unapproved water supply or other source
of contamination or pollution.
   CUSTOMER. A CUSTOMER is described as a billing unit or service connection to
which drinking water is delivered by a public water system. A CUSTOMER may also
be identified as an owner.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The potential risk to health and the potential adverse
effects upon the public water system based on the probability of backflow
occurring and the type or nature of the contaminant. A “health hazard” is any
condition, device or practice which creates or may create a danger to health
and well being of the water consumer. A “severe health hazard” is any health
hazard (contaminant) that could be expected to result in a significant
morbidity or death. A “non-health hazard” (pollutant) is any condition that
could degrade the quality or adversely affect the public water system.
   DEVICE. A single body backflow preventer with one or two check valves that
cannot be tested and does not have shutoff valves or test cocks.
   FIXTURE ISOLATION (INTERNAL ISOLATION). A method of backflow prevention
where a backflow preventer is located to control a cross-connection or
potential source of contamination at an in-plant piece of equipment or process
location other than at a water service entrance.
   OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, license to operate, or resides in
a property or facility which is supplied drinking water from a public water
system. May also be referred to as a customer.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private corporation,
political subdivision, agency of the state, instrumentality of the United
States or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT. A foreign substance that, if permitted to enter the public water
system, will degrade potable water quality so as to constitute a moderate
hazard , or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not
create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect (appearance or color, odor, taste and the like) the water
for domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is safe for human consumption as described by the
State Bureau for Public Health.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Includes the works, auxiliaries, for the collection,
treatment, storage and distribution of drinking water from the source of supply
to a customer’s premises. May also be known as a WATER PURVEYOR.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The Municipal Water Department, Water Board, Public Service
District or other administrative authority invested with the authority and
responsibility for a public water system.
   WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. The point in the customer’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the public water system (water purveyor), generally
considered to be the outlet end of the water meter and always before any
unprotected branch water line.
   WEST VIRGINIA BUREAU FOR PUBLIC HEALTH (WVBPH). The State of West Virginia
Bureau for Public Health.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The water purveyor will establish, operate and promote a cross-
connection and backflow prevention control program, to include the keeping of
necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of the WVBPH cross-
connections and backflow prevention regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall allow his or her property to be inspected for possible
cross-connections and backflow conditions, and shall follow the provisions of
the water purveyor’s program and the WVBPH cross-connections and backflow
prevention regulations where a cross-connection is permitted.
   (C)   If the water purveyor requires that the public water system be
protected by containment, the owner shall be responsible for the installation
and maintenance of the required backflow preventer assembly(blies) and for
water quality beyond the outlet end of the containment assembly(blies) and
could utilize fixture isolation protection for that purpose. The owner may also
seek local public health officials or personnel from the water purveyor, or
their designated representatives, or certified/licensed private sector
personnel to assist him or her in the survey of their facility(ties) and to
assist him or her in the selection of proper containment assemblies and/or
fixture isolation devices, and the proper installation of these assemblies/
devices.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.06 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water purveyor.
      (1)   On new installations, the water purveyor will provide an on-site
evaluation and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of
backflow preventer assembly(blies), if any, that will be required based on
actual or potential cross-connections and the degree of health hazards.
      (2)   For   existing prior to the start of this program, the water
purveyor will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or premises for
actual and potential cross-connections and backflow conditions and inform the
owner by letter of any collective action deemed necessary, the method of
achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the correction to be made.
Ordinarily, 90 days will be allowed. However, this time period may be shortened
depending upon the degree of hazard involved and the history of the device(s)/
assembly(blies) already in place.
      (3)   The water purveyor will not allow any actual or potential cross-
connection to remain unless it is protected by an approved air gap or backflow
preventer assembly(blies) and which must be regularly tested or inspected to
insure satisfactory operation.
      (4)   The water purveyor shall inform the owner by letter of any failure
to comply prior to a re-inspection. The water purveyor will allow an additional
15 days for the correction(s). In the event the owner fails to comply with the
necessary correction(s) by the time of a second re-inspection, the water
purveyor will inform the owner by letter, that the water service to the owner’s
premises will be terminated within a period not to exceed five days. In the
event that the owner informs the water purveyor of extenuating circumstances as
to why the correction(s) has not been made, a time extension may be granted by
the water purveyor, but in no case will exceed an additional 30 days.
      (5)   If the water purveyor determines at anytime that a serious threat
to the public health exists, water service will be terminated immediately.
      (6)   The water purveyor will conduct initial and follow-up premises
inspections to determine the nature of existing or potential hazards. The main
focus will be on high hazard industries and commercial premises.
      (7)   The water purveyor must report any backflow incident(s) occurring
in the public water system as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours after
the incident to the WVBPH.
   (B)   Owner.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or protection of
all actual or potential cross-connections and/or backflow conditions on his or
her premises.
      (2)   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the water
purveyor, shall at his or her expense, install, maintain and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventer assemblies on his or her premises.
      (3)   The owner shall correct within 30 days any malfunction of an air
gap or backflow preventer assembly(blies) which is revealed by periodic
inspection or testing. This may also involve the removal and/or replacement of
the backflow preventer assembly(blies).
      (4)   The owner shall inform the water purveyor of any proposed or
modified cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the
owner is aware, but have not been found by the water purveyor.
      (5)   The owner shall not install a by-pass around any backflow preventer
assembly unless there is a backflow prevention assembly of the same type on the
bypass. Owners who cannot shut down operation for testing of the assembly
(blies) must supply additional assemblies necessary to allow testing to take
place.
      (6)   The owner shall install only backflow preventer assemblies approved
by the water purveyor or the WVBPH.
      (7)   The owner shall install backflow preventer assemblies in a manner
approved by the water purveyor and general industry standards.
      (8)   Any owner having a private well or other auxiliary water source
must have the approval of the water purveyor and the WVBPH if the well or
source is cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system. Permission to cross-
connect may be denied. The owner may be required to install a backflow
preventer assembly at the service entrance if a private water source is
maintained, even if it is not cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system.
      (9)   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the water purveyor’s side of a backflow
preventer assembly, such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer assembly
installed.
      (10)   The owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
service, permits, periodic assembly testing, retesting in the case that a
backflow preventer assembly fells to operate correctly, and followup re-
inspections for noncompliance with water purveyor or WVBPH requirements.
      (11)   The owner must maintain for a minimum of three years records of
installation and removal, all testing, repair and maintenance for all
assemblies/devices in the owner’s water distribution system(s).
      (12)   The owner will report any backflow incident(s) occurring in their
facility(ties)/building(s) as soon as possible but no later than 24 hours after
the incident to the water purveyor and to the WVBPH. Also, the owner must
maintain for a minimum of three years all records and reports of all backflow
incidents occurring in their facility(ties)/building(s). These records and
reports are to be made available to the water purveyor and/or WVBPH upon
request.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.07 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   The water purveyor recognizes the threat to the public water system arising
from cross-connections and backflow conditions. All threats will be classified
by degree of hazard which will determine the requirements for the installation
of approved backflow preventer assemblies.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.08 EXISTING IN-USE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any existing backflow preventer assembly shall be allowed by the water
purveyor to continue in service unless the degree of hazard is such as to
supersede the effectiveness of the present backflow preventer assembly, or
there is an unreasonable risk to the public health. Where the degree of hazard
has increased, as in the case of a residential installation converting to a
business establishment; any existing backflow preventer assemblies must be
upgraded to a reduced pressure principle assembly or a reduced pressure
principle assembly must be installed in the event that no backflow preventer
assembly is present.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.09 PERIODIC TESTING.
   (A)   Backflow preventer assemblies shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
   (B)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a WVBPH certified tester. This
testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Any backflow preventer assembly which fails during a periodic test
will be repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of
the repair, the assembly will be retested at the owner’s expense to ensure
correct operation. High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue
unprotected if the backflow preventer assembly fails the periodic test and
cannot be repaired immediately. In other situations, a compliance date of not
more than 30 days after the test date may be established. The owner is
responsible for the costs of all testing, repair service, replacement parts or
a replacement assembly. Parallel installation of two assemblies is an effective
means of the owner ensuring uninterrupted water service during testing or
repair of one of the assemblies and is strongly recommended when the owner
desires such continuity.
   (D)   Backflow preventer assemblies will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (A) of this section in cases where there is a history of
test failures and the water purveyor feels that due to the degree of hazard
involved, additional testing is warranted. Cost of the additional tests will be
borne by the owner.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
§ 52.10 RECORDS.
   (A)   The water purveyor will initiate and maintain (update) the following:
      (1)   Master files on customer evaluations and/or inspections of cross-
connections and backflow conditions;
      (2)   Master files on all customer backflow preventer assemblies;
      (3)   Master files on customer backflow preventer tests, repairs and
replacements. Records for replaced backflow preventer shall be maintained for a
period of one year after date of removal from service;
      (4)   Records and reports of any backflow incident(s) occurring in the
public or consumer water systems shall be maintained for at least three years
after the date of the incident; and
      (5)   Copies of any of the above and other records and/or reports
supplied to the WVBPH. This material shall be maintained for at least three
years after submission.
   (B)   Upon request, the water purveyor will submit records of inspection and
noncompliance, surveys, tests results and/or corrective actions, and backflow
incident reports to the West Virginia Bureau for Public Health.
(Ord. passed 10-28-2004)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
   
53.01   Kopperston Public Service District
   
53.02   Rates, charges and fees for water services
   
53.03   Private fire protection; rates, charges and fees for water services
§ 53.01 KOPPERSTON PUBLIC SERVICE DISTRICT.
   The acquisition of the Kopperston Public Service District water system by
the town, upon the Public Service Commission of West Virginia’s approval of
Kopperston Public Service District’s conveyance of the water system to the
town, and subject of bondholder approval, is approved.
(Ord. passed 9-19-1996; Ord. passed 10-20-2016; Ord. passed 4-25-2017; Ord.
passed 7-12-2018)
§ 53.02 RATES, CHARGES AND FEES FOR WATER SERVICES.
   The present rates and charges of the municipally operated water public
utility of the town charged for providing water services to its customers, be
and hereby are increased by providing for monthly rates and charges under the
following schedule of rates and charges for furnishing water services.
   (A)   Applicability. Applicable in entire territory served, including the
former customers of the Kopperston Public Service District.
   (B)   Availability. Available for general residential, commercial,
industrial and sale for resale water service.
   (C)   Rates (customers with metered water supply).
 
First 3,000 gallons used per month  $15.91 per 1,000 gallons
Next 3,000 gallons used per month   $13.70 per 1,000 gallons
Next 94,000 gallons used per month  $9.41 per 1,000 gallons
Over 100,000 gallons used per month $8.14 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (D)   Flat rate charge (customers with non-metered water supply). Equivalent
to 4,500 gallons of water usage, $68.27 per month.
   (E)   Minimum charges. The above schedule is subject to a monthly minimum
charge based on the size of the meter as follows:
5/8 x 3/4 inch meter, or smaller $47.73 per month
3/4 inch meter                   $71.59 per month
1 inch meter                     $119.32 per month
1-1/4 inch meter                 $174.22 per month
1-1/2 inch meter                 $238.64 per month
2 inch meter                     $381.83 per month
3 inch meter                     $715.93 per month
4 inch meter                     $1,193.22 per month
6 inch meter                     $2,386.44 per month
8 inch meter                     $3,818.31 per month
 
   (F)   Sales for resale service.
 
Kopperston Public Service District $5.91 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (G)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank fee
assessed to the town or a maximum of $30 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by the bank for any reason.
   (H)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all accounts
not paid within 20 days of the date of the bill, 10% will be added to the
current net charge. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be
collected only once for each bill where it is appropriate.
   (I)   Tap fee. The following charges are to be made whenever the utility
installs a new tap to serve an applicant.
      (1)   A tap fee of $100 will be charged to customers applying for service
before construction is bid in connection with a certificate proceeding before
the Public Service Commission. This pre- construction tap fee will be invalid
after the bidding of the construction project that is associated with the
certificate proceeding.
      (2)   A tap fee of $700 will be charged to all customers (three-fourths
inch or smaller) who apply for service outside of a certificate proceeding
before the Public Service Commission for each new tap to the system.
      (3)   All taps greater than three-fourths inch shall be charged the
greater of $700 or the actual cost of the connection, as determined by the
town.
   (J)   Leak adjustment. $2.26 per 1,000 gallons used when the bill reflects
unusual consumption which is attributable to eligible leakage on the customer’s
side of the meter. This rate shall be applied to all such unusual consumption
above the customer’s historical average usage.
   (K)   Debt service reserve recovery surcharge. A surcharge of $4 per
customer per month shall be imposed on all classes of service, with the
specific exception of sales for resale (Kopperston PSD) for recovery of debt
service deficiencies. This surcharge shall remain in effect until further
action of the town.
   (L)   Security deposit. A deposit of $50 or two-twelfths of the average
annual usage of the applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater.
This fee may be changed by applicable statutory provisions.
   (M)   Emergency customer convenience or seasonal turn on or off. There shall
be a $5 charge for each visit to the customer’s premises for such turn on or
off, except that if the service is both turned off and on within the same
eight-hour work day, only one $5 fee shall apply.
   (N)   Transfer of service. Transfer of service from one customer to another
will involve a $25 charge to the new customer for institution of account. Other
conditions will constitute a $5 charge.
   (O)   Reconnection charge. There shall be a $50 charge paid prior to
restoration of water service which had been disconnected for any reason. This
charge shall also apply as an administrative fee when bills are collected at
the customer’s residence or any place other than the billing office, or in the
event the bill is paid after disconnection has been commenced (utility workers
have traveled to the residence).
   (P)   Testing or replacement of meter at customer’s request. Upon request of
any customer of the system, the town will test or replace the customer’s water
meter as soon as is reasonably possible, and if the meter is found to be
defective, the customer’s account will be adjusted accordingly. If the meter is
found to be accurate within the prescribed guidelines of the Public Service
Commission of the state, then the customer’s account will receive no adjustment
and will be billed a charge of $25 for meter replacement.
   (Q)   Multiple occupancy. On apartment building or other multiple occupancy
buildings, each family or business unit shall be required to pay not less than
the minimum monthly charge herein for a five-eighths inch meter. Motels and
hotels shall pay according to the size of meter installed.
   (R)   Trailer courts.
      (1)   When house trailer courts are provided with a master meter, no bill
shall be rendered for less than $10.95, multiplied by the number of units
situated on the court site at the time the meter is read or the actual charge
for the size meter installed, whichever is greater. House trailer (as used
herein above) shall include both mobile and immobile units.
      (2)   House trailers either mobile or immobile, located on sites other
than a park or court, shall be billed in the same manner as any other family or
business unit.
   (S)   Payment collection fees. In the event that an employee of the town
collects a payment from the customer at the customer’s residence to avoid
termination of water service, the customer shall be charged a fee of $20, in
addition to the amount of any unpaid bill.
   (T)   Fee for installation of removed meter. If a water meter is removed to
prevent a customer from illegally obtaining water after the customer’s service
has been disconnected for nonpayment, the customer shall pay a minimum meter
re-installation fee of $125 plus additional charges to replace and or repair
damaged equipment belonging to the utility, before the meter is re-installed
and water service is reinstated. This fee is in addition to any re-connection
fees. If the customer’s service has been cut off by the request of a renter
vacating a rented dwelling, this charge will be made to the owner of the
building.
   (U)   EFT payments. A service charge will be imposed on EFT payments.
Payment shall consist of the actual charges from the financial institution for
processing payment.
   (V)   Bill reprint fee. A charge of $1 will be assessed to customers who do
not present the bar coded section of the bill provided by the utility with
payment.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2016; Ord. passed 10-9-2024)
§ 53.03 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION; RATES, CHARGES AND FEES FOR WATER SERVICES.
   (A)   Schedule II.
      (1)   Availability. The town’s water service under Schedule II shall be
available for private fire protection.
      (2)   Rate.
         (a)   Where connections, hydrants, sprinklers and the like on private
property are maintained by the consumer:
 
2 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose  $ 7.50 per month
connections
3 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose  $ 9 per month
connections
4 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose  $12 per month
connections
6 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose  $20 per month
connections
8 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose  $36 per month
connections
10 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose $60 per month
connections
12 inch service line with hydrants, sprinklers and/or hose $90 per month
connections
 
         (b)   Where connections and hydrants on private property are
maintained by the town:
 
Each fire hydrant $30 per month
 
   (B)   Step 2. (Effective upon substantial completion of the Phase 2 Project
or six months prior to the first Phase 2 Project DWTRF loan debt service
payment, whichever occurs earlier.)
      (1)   Applicability. Applicable in entire territory served, including the
former customers of Kopperston Public Service District.
      (2)   Availability. Available for general residential, commercial,
industrial and sale for resale water service.
      (3)   Rates. Customers with metered water supply:
 
First 3,000 gallons used per month  $16.91 per 1,000 gallons
Next 3,000 gallons used per month   $14.56 per 1,000 gallons
Next 94,000 gallons used per month  $10 per 1,000 gallons
Over 100,000 gallons used per month $8.65 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (4)   Flat rate charge. Customers with non-metered water supply:
 
Equivalent to 4,500 gallons of water usage $72.57 per month
 
      (5)   Minimum charges. The above schedule is subject to a monthly minimum
charge based on the size of the meter as follows:
5/8 x 3/4 inch meter, or smaller $50.73 per month
3/4    inch meter             $76.10 per month
1 inch meter                     $126.83 per month
1 1/4 inch meter                 $185.19 per month
1 1/2 inch meter                 $253.68 per month
2 inch meter                     $405.88 per month
3 inch meter                     $761.04 per month
4 inch meter                     $1,268.39 per month
6 inch meter                     $2,536.79 per month
8 inch meter                     $4,058.86 per month
 
      (6)   Sales for resale service. Sales for resale service shall be at a
rate of $6.29 per 1,000 gallons.
      (7)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the town or a maximum of $30 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by the bank for any reason.
      (8)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all accounts
not paid within 20 days of the date of the bill, 10% will be added to the
current net charge. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be
collected only once for each bill where it is appropriate.
      (9)   Tap fees. The following charges are to be made whenever the utility
installs a new tap to serve an applicant.
         (a)   A tap fee of $100 will be charged to customers applying for
service before construction is bid in connection with a certificate proceeding
before the Public Service Commission. This pre-construction tap fee will be
invalid after the bidding of the construction project that is associated with
the certificate proceeding.
         (b)   A tap fee of $700 will be charged to all customers (three-
fourths inch or smaller) who apply for service outside of a certificate
proceeding before the Public Service Commission for each new tap to the system.
         (c)   All taps greater than three-fourths inch shall be charged the
greater of $700 or the actual cost of the connection, as determined by the
town.
      (10)   Leak adjustment. A rate of $2.26 per 1,000 gallons used when the
bill reflects unusual consumption which is attributed to eligible leakage on
the customer’s side of the meter. This rate shall be applied to all such
unusual consumption above the customer’s historical average usage.
      (11)   Security deposits. A deposit of $50 or two-twelfths of the average
annual usage of the applicant’s specific customer class, whichever is greater.
This fee may be changed by applicable statutory provisions.
      (12)   Emergency customer convenience or seasonal turn on or off. There
shall be a $5 charge for each visit to the customer’s premises for such turn on
or off, except that if the service is both turned off and on within the same
eight-hour work day, only one $5 fee shall apply.
      (13)   Transfer of service. Transfer of service from one customer to
another will involve a $25 charge to the new customer for institution of
account. Other conditions will constitute a $5 charge.
      (14)   Reconnection charge. There shall be a $50 charge paid prior to
restoration of water service which had been disconnected for any reason. This
charge shall also apply as an administrative fee when bills are collected at
the customer’s residence or any place other than the billing office, or in the
event the bill is paid after disconnection has been commenced (utility workers
have traveled to the residence).
      (15)   Testing or replacement of meter at customer’s request. Upon
request of any customer of the system, the town will test or replace the
customer’s water meter as soon as is reasonably possible, and if the meter is
found to be defective, the customer’s account will be adjusted accordingly. If
the meter is found to be accurate within the prescribed guidelines of the State
Public Service Commission, then the customer’s account will receive no
adjustment and will be billed a charge of $25 for meter replacement.
      (16)   Multiple occupancy. On apartment building or other multiple
occupancy buildings, each family or business unit shall be required to pay not
less than the minimum monthly charge herein for a five-eighths inch meter.
Motels and hotels shall pay according to the size of meter installed.
      (17)   Trailer courts.
         (a)   When house trailer courts are provided with a master meter, no
bill shall be rendered for less than $10.95, multiplied by the number of units
situated on the court site at the time the meter is read or the actual charge
for the size meter installed, whichever is greater. House trailer (as used
herein above) shall include both mobile and immobile units.
         (b)   House trailers, either mobile or immobile, located on sites
other than a park or court shall be billed in the same manner as any other
family or business unit.
      (18)   Payment collection fees. In the event that an employee of the town
collects a payment from the customer at the customer’s residence to avoid
termination of water service, the customer shall be charged a fee of $20, in
addition to the amount of any unpaid bill.
      (19)   Fee for installation of removed meter. If a water meter is removed
to prevent a customer from illegally obtaining water after the customer’s
service has been disconnected for nonpayment, the customer shall pay a minimum
meter re-installation fee of $125 plus additional charges to replace and or
repair damaged equipment belonging to the utility, before the meter is re-
installed and water service is reinstated. This fee is in addition to any re-
connection fees. If the customer’s service has been cut off by the request of a
renter vacating a rented dwelling, this charge will be made to the owner of the
building.
      (20)   EFT payments. A service charge will be imposed on EFT payments.
Payment shall consist of the actual charges from the financial institution for
processing payment.
      (21)   Bill reprint fee. A charge of $1 will be assessed to customers who
do not present the bar coded section of the bill provided by the utility with
payment.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2024)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
54.001   Authority to establish and maintain a sewage system
   
54.002   Declaration of necessity
   
54.003   Application for sewer service required
   
54.004   Permit for connection: tapping charge
   
54.005   Use of public sewers
   
54.006   Rates for wastewater treatment plant project rates
   
54.007   Definitions
   
54.008   Assurance of compliance
Connection to Public Sewers
   
54.020   Tapping or opening sewer without permit
   
54.021   Sewer taps only by authorized persons
   
54.022   Sewer tap construction
   
54.023   Approval of connections by Town Inspector
   
54.024   Unauthorized connections prohibited
   
54.025   Establishment of schedule of rates and charges; use of water meters
   
54.026   Establishment rates applicable to premises subsequently served
   
54.027   Town subject to established rates or charges
   
54.028   Authority vested in Town Council for billing and collection
   
54.029   Lien for enforcement of collection of billed rates or charges
   
54.030   Industrial use of sewers
   
54.031   Duration of liability for sewer service
   
54.032   User’s responsibility to keep sewer clean
   
54.033   Leaks
   
54.034   Town not liable for damage
   
54.035   Tampering with sewer appurtenances
   
54.036   Entering sewer
   
54.037   Injury to sewer
   
54.038   Proper connections
Discharge into Public Sewers
   
54.050   Unpolluted discharge
   
54.051   Storm water
   
54.052   Flammable, explosive of hazardous substances and foreign matter
   
54.053   Toxic Substances
   
54.054   Conditional services
   
54.055   Grease, oil and sand separators
   
54.056   Pretreatment
   
54.057   Metering and sampling devices
   
54.058   Design data on connection
   
54.059   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
54.060   Disclaimer
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
54.075   Right of entry for purpose of discharge inspection
   
54.076   Collection of information
   
54.077   Required safety procedures
   
54.078   Right of entry to and from all negotiated easements
Amendments to and Precedence of the Sewer Use Ordinance
   
54.090   Amendments to the sewer use ordinance
   
54.091   Precedence of past and present ordinances
   
54.092   Precedence of the sewer use ordinance and other codes
 
   
54.999   Penalty
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 54.001 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN A SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   For state law as to authority of town to establish and maintain a sewer
system and sewage treatment and disposal system and to acquire property
necessary therefore, see W. Va. Code §§ 16-13A-1 and 8. As to authority of town
to make “low cost improvements”, including the construction, renewing and
preparing of storm, sanitary and combined sewers, see W. Va. Code § 16-3A-7. As
to authority of town to levy assessments for sewer improvements, and to
regulate sewer connections, see W. Va. Code § 16-13A-9. As to owns, see W. Va.
Code § 16-13A-8. As to requirement that method of drainage and system for extra
disposal conform to plans, specifications, and instructions of State Department
of Health, see W. Va Code § 16-1-9.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.002 DECLARATION OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   The use of the sewer system of the town is determined and declared to
be essential for the protection and preservation of the public health, comfort,
safety, economy and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and of the
area served thereby.
   (B)   The owner, tenant or occupant of premises, which about on a street,
easement or other public way containing a sewer service, or which, in the
judgment of the Town Council, is located within such a distance thereof that
sewer service is reasonably available thereto and upon which a premises and
building or other inhabitable structure has been or shall be erected for
residential, commercial or industrial use, or where persons are employed or
congregate or are intended to be employed or congregate, shall be required to
connect the building or structure to the sewer system or to such part of the
sewer system as may from time to time be extended or become reasonably
available, and shall thereafter refrain from using or cease to use any other
method in place of the sewer services which are now, or may hereafter become,
available, and shall thereafter pay all the charges, rates or fees as herein,
or may hereafter be provided for. All such connections shall be in accordance
with the rules and regulations which may provide for reasonable charges, fees
or deposits required for making such connections. For provisions as to
authority of the town to compel owners and the like of property abutting on or
near the street in which the public sewer is laid and upon which any building
and the like is erected, to connect such property to the sewer, see W. Va. Code
§ 16-13A-9.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.003 APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including public bodies as
well as natural persons, to make an initial-cut-in or connection with the town
sewer system and use that system without first making written application for
such connection and service to the Town Council and paving all costs, charges,
fees and deposits incident thereto.
      (2)   Such application shall be made on forms prescribed and furnished by
the Town Council, and shall constitute an agreement by the applicant with the
town to abide by all provisions of this chapter and such applicable rules and
regulations of the Town Council in regard to the use of the sewer system. Such
application for service by firms, partnerships, associations and corporations
shall be submitted only by their duly authorized agent, and the official title
of such agent shall be signed to the application.
   (B)   The application shall grant or cause to be granted to the town,
without cost, all rights, easements, permits and privileges which are necessary
for the rendering of sewer service. Duly authorized employees of the Town
Council shall have access at all reasonable hours to the premises of the
applicant for the purpose of installing or removing any of its property,
examining the pipes or fixtures or for any purpose incidental to the rendering
of sewer service.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.004 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION: TAPPING CHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether property owner, drain layer or
otherwise, to connect with or tap a town sewer, either directly or indirectly,
without first having a permit from the Town Council and having paid the tapping
or maintenance charge fixed by law. In all cases, the tapping and maintenance
charges for tapping a town sewer shall be specified from time to time by the
Town Council in an appropriate schedule, which shall be maintained on file in
the office of the town; and until such a schedule is prescribed by the Town
Council pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this section the tapping and
maintenance charges for town sewers shall be those in effect immediately prior
to the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.005 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Industrial cooling waters or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, upon approval of the Sanitary Board, to a storm sewer, combined
sewer or natural outlet.
   (B)   Except as herinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzend, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
cloth, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant or in the collection system; and/or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Sanitary Board, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Sanitary Board, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and
oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (D)   When installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (E)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wasted
having any of the following shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Sanitary Board:
         (a)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in division (B) above; or
         (d)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the town.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Sanitary Board, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million
and the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for division (B) above; or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Sanitary Board and of the State Water Commission, and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are
obtained in writing.
   (F)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner at his or her expense.
   (G)   When required by the Sanitary Board, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Sanitary Board. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (H)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in divisions (B) and (F) above shall be
determined in accordance with the “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage” and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for
in division (G) of this section, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (I)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Sanitary Board and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the Sanitary Board for treatment, subject to
payment therefor by the industrial concern.
   (J)   Sewer service will be deemed available to a customer when a main is
installed and maintained by the utility in such location and at a distance of
250 feet or less from the user’s premises; provided, that service shall not be
deemed to be available unless the sewage will flow by gravity or be transported
by such other methods approved by the Bureau for Public Health including, but
not limited to, vacuum and pressure systems, approved under state law from the
customer’s premises into the utility’s facilities; and provided, the cost of
hookup to the sewer system will not exceed $1,200 for the customer.
(Ord. passed 2-12-1987; Ord. passed 9-9-2010; Ord. passed 5-9-2013) Penalty,
see §
54.99
§ 54.006 RATES FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT PROJECT RATES.
   The following monthly rates, charges and fees to be charged for providing
sewer services to customers of the municipally operated sewer public utility of
the town are adopted to become effective for all service rendered from the date
of substantial completion of the project, effective for all service rendered
from the date of substantial completion of the Wastewater Treatment Plant
Project.
   (A)   Applicability. Applicable in the entire area served.
   (B)   Availability. Available for domestic, commercial, industrial (except
unusual industrial waste) and resale (noncontract) sewer service.
   (C)   Rates (based upon metered volume of water supplied). $15.63 per 1,000
gallons per month.
   (D)   Minimum bill. Each customer shall pay a minimum charge of $46.89 per
month based on 3,000 gallons per month.
   (E)   Unmetered rate. A flat fee of $70.35, based on 4,500 gallons of water
usage per month, will be charged for all unmetered water customers.
   (F)   Service connection charge. $350.
   (G)   Delayed payment penalty. The above tariff is net. On all current usage
billings not paid within 20 days, 10% will be added to the net current amount
unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be collected
only once for each bill where it is appropriate.
   (H)   Water disconnect-reconnect-administrative fees.
      (1)   Whenever water service has been disconnected for non-payment of
sewer bills, a disconnection fee of $25 shall be charged; or in the event the
delinquent sewer bill is collected in the field, an administrative fee of $25
shall be charged.
      (2)   A $25 reconnection fee will be assessed for each occurrence where
water service to sewer customers is restored, after water service has been
terminated for non-payment of sewer bills.
   (I)   Returned check charge. If a check received is returned by the bank for
any reason, the town’s charge to the customer for such returned check shall be
$30.
   (J)   Leak adjustment. $5 per 1,000 gallons is to be used when the bill
reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed to eligible leakage on the
customer’s side of the meter.
   (K)   Surcharge formula to be applied in cases where surface drainage is
connected to the town’s sanitary sewer system.
      (1)   Where the town has discovered that a customer’s roof drain,
downspout, storm sewer or other similar facilities conducting surface water
have been connected to the town’s sewer system and such customer has failed to
take appropriate action, within 30 days of receipt of a demand by the utility
in accordance with the rules of the Public Service Commission, to eliminate
such connection, a surcharge will be imposed upon the customer calculated on
the basis of the following formula:
 
S = A x R x .0006233 x C
 
   S = the surcharge in dollars
   A = the area under roof and/or the area of any other water collection
surface connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet
   R = the measured monthly rainfall, in inches
   .0006233 = a conversion factor to change inches of rain x square feet of
surface to thousands of gallons of water
   C = the town’s approved rate per thousand gallons of metered water usage
      (2)   The town shall not impose the surcharge unless and until the
customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke testing, dye testing or
on-site inspection that rain or surface water is being introduced into the
sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, and that the customer has not
acted within 30 days from receipt of such notice to divert the water from the
sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month that
said condition continues to exist. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or correct
the situation shall give rise to the possible termination of water service in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Public Service Commission of
West Virginia.
   (L)   Surcharge formula to be applied in the cases of users producing
unusual waste.
      (1)   The charge for the treatment of unusual waste will be calculated on
the basis of the following formula:
 
Ci = VoVi + BoBi + SoSi
 
   Ci = charge to unusual users per year
   Vo = average unit cost of transport and treatment chargeable to volume, in
dollars per gallon
   Vi = volume of wastewater from unusual users, in gallons per year
   Bo = average unit cost of treatment, chargeable in biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), in dollars per pound
   Bi = weight of BOD from unusual users, in pounds per year
   So = average unit cost of treatment (including sludge treatment) chargeable
to total solids, in dollars per pound
   Si = weight of total solids from unusual users, in pounds per year
      (2)   When an unusual user is to be served, a preliminary study of its
wastes, and the cost of transport and treatment thereof, will be made. Waste
containing materials which, in the judgment of the utility should not be
introduced into the system, need not be handled by it. The results of this
preliminary study will be used to determine the feasibility of the proposed
sewer service and the charge therefore, based upon the formula set out above.
      (3)   Thereafter, unusual sewage will be monitored on a regular basis and
at the conclusion of each fiscal year, based on the investigation aforesaid and
audit of the utility’s records, new cost figures will be calculated for use in
the above formula. The cost of establishing the monitoring facilities shall be
paid by the unusual user.
      (4)   Based on these audited figures, additional billings covering the
past fiscal year will be made for payment by each unusual user, or refund given
by the utility, as the case may be. Such audited figures will then be used for
the preliminary billing for the next fiscal year, at the end of which an
adjustment will be made as aforesaid.
   (M)   Applicable inside and outside of the corporate limits of the town.
Where the amount of sanitary sewage discharged into the town’s wastewater
collection and/or transmission system by certain industrial plant or plants
cannot be accurately determined by the use of the plant’s water meter or
meters, and said plant cannot install a flow meter to measure such waste, a
special formula will be used whereby such plant or plants will pay to the
town’s Sanitary Board a sewer charge calculated at 50 gallons of water per each
employee at the plant each working day.
   (N)   (1)   Applicability. This section is applicable in entire territory
served.
      (2)   Availability of service. Sewer service is available for wastewater
and leachate haulers.
      (3)   Rates; commodity charges. Each hauler shall pay a commodity charge
of $25 per 1,000 gallons per load. Load will be two times the actual capacity
of the truck or other transport method delivering wastewater and leachate.
Actual capacity shall be determined or verified by the town.
      (4)   Delayed payment penalty. The above tariff is net. On all current
usage billings not paid within 20 days, 10% will be added to the net current
amount unpaid. This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is only to be
collected once for each bill where it is appropriate.
      (5)   Returned check charge. If a check received is returned by the bank
for any reason, the town’s charge to the customer for such returned check shall
be $30.
   (O)   In accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 24, Article
2, § 4b, 1931 edition, as amended, the rules and regulations and the rates,
charges and fees provided for herein shall be effective no sooner than 45 days
from the date of adoption.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2017; Ord. passed 12-12-2024)
§ 54.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COUNCIL. The Mayor and fellow members, respectively, of the town, as
constituting the governing body of the town.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE FAT if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business as
distinct from domestic or sanitary strength wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   MAY. Permissive (see definition of “shall”).
   TOWN. The Town of Oceana.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ion, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen concentration of
10-.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid-water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is “wastewater”.
    SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Mandatory (see definition of “may”).
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows
during normal operation and adversely affects the collection system and/or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water or unpolluted water from any surface. Sometimes termed “storm sewer”.
   MANAGER. The duly appointed representative of the town who is charged with
the responsibility of the day to day operations of the water facilities of his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is in suspension in water wastewater or other liquids that is removable
by laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water and Wastewater” and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collection, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
      (1)   An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater,
industrial wastes and sludge.
      (2)   Sometimes used as synonymous with “waste treatment plant” or
“wastewater treatment plant” or “water pollution control plant”.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.008 ASSURANCE OF COMPLIANCE.
   This section assures that the town shall enact and enforce a sewer use
ordinance or legally binding requirement before the completion of construction.
Further, the enactment shall prohibit any new connection from inflow sources
into the sanitary sewer portions of the sewer system and shall insure that new
sewers and connections to the sewer systems are properly designed and
constructed.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 54.020 TAPPING OR OPENING SEWER WITHOUT PERMIT.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the
town from any loss of damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.021 SEWER TAPS ONLY BY AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except were one building stands at the rear of another or an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear and the whole considered as one building
sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.022 SEWER TAP CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the town from any loss of damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except were one building stands at the rear of another or an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear and the whole considered as one building
sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   (C)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with the new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Manager, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of the code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
material and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and
WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply. Whenever possible, the building
sewer, shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement
floor. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (E)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the
Manager for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town for the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the SPECF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by
proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and material must
be approved by the Manager before installation.
   (G)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Manager
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Manager or his or her representative.
   (H)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.023 APPROVAL OF CONNECTIONS BY TOWN INSPECTOR.
   No sewer service shall be connected until the plumbing and connections
incident thereto shall have been inspected and approved by an inspector of the
Town Council. No sewer service line shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system if that service line will contain flows other than sanitary wastewater.
Roof drains, yard and area drains, footer drains or a line other than that
which serves a sanitary plumbing system are prohibited from connection to the
town system.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000) Penalty, see §
54.023
§ 54.024 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall connect to or turn on any sewer service, or cut-in,
interconnect, tap or make any alterations to any main or distribution or
collection pipe of the town’s sewer system or permit any connection or tapping
to be made to the sewer system on his or her premises or the premises occupied
by him, or knowingly use the sewer service from connections in violation of any
of the provisions of this article or any rules or regulations adopted by the
Town Council with respect thereto.
   (B)   Roof drains, yard and area drains, footer drains or any line carrying
flow other than exclusively sanitary wastewater are prohibited from connection
to the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES; USE OF WATER METERS.
   (A)   For the payment of the proper and reasonable expense of operation,
repair, replacement, improvements, additions, betterments, extensions and
maintenance of the sewer system and for the payment of the sums required to pay
the principal and interests of all sewer revenue bonds as they become due, the
Town Council shall enact and may from time to time amend a schedule of just and
equitable rates or charges for the use of and service rendered by the municipal
sewer system and works of the town, which schedule of rates or charges shall be
based upon the metered amount of water supplied the premises; and each schedule
shall be maintained on file in the office of the town while it is in effect.
   (B)   Until such time as the Town Council adopts a schedule of rates or
charges in effect immediately prior to the effective date of this chapter, this
chapter shall continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.026 ESTABLISHMENT RATES APPLICABLE TO PREMISES SUBSEQUENTLY SERVED.
   The rates or charges so established for any class of users or property
served shall be extended to cover any additional premises hereafter served
which fall within the same class, without the necessity of any hearing or
notice.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.027 TOWN SUBJECT TO ESTABLISHED RATES OR CHARGES.
   The town shall be subject to the established charges and rates, or to
charges and rates established in harmony therewith, for services rendered the
town and shall be deemed to be part of the revenues of the sewage system and
works and be applied as provided for the application of such revenues.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.028 AUTHORITY VESTED IN TOWN COUNCIL FOR BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   All rates or charges provided for by this article shall be billed and
collected monthly by the Town Council or by persons or agencies authorized by
the Town Council. All bills shall be considered due and payable on or before
the tenth day following the date rendered.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.029 LIEN FOR ENFORCEMENT OF COLLECTION OF BILLED RATES OR CHARGES.
   (A)   All such rates or charges, if not paid when due, shall be a lien upon
the premises served by such system or works, and if such rates or charges not
be paid within 30 days after due, then the amount thereof, together with a
penalty of ten percent and a reasonable attorney’s fee, may be recovered by the
Town Council in a civil action in the name of the town.
   (B)   In connection with such action, such lien may be foreclosed against
such lot, parcel of land or building, in accordance with the laws relating
thereto.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.030 INDUSTRIAL USE OF SEWERS.
   Where the character of sewage from any manufacturing or industrial plant,
building or premises is such that it imposes a burden upon the sewer system in
addition to the burden imposed by the average sewage entering the sewer system,
such additional charge be made therefore as the Town Council shall deem to be
far and equitable to meet the additional cost of collection, treatment and
disposal of such sewage; and the Town Council may; if it deems advisable to do
so, compel the owner, tenant or occupant of such manufacturing or industrial
plant, building or premises to treat such sewage in such manner as shall be
specified by the Town Council before discharging into the sewer system.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.031 DURATION OF LIABILITY FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Liability for service shall begin for a user on the date of connection
to the sewer system, and such liability shall continue thereafter unless such
premises are disconnected from the sewer system with the approval of the Town
Council.
   (B)   After such liability begins, no allowance shall be made for vacant
houses unless request in writing to have the sewer system shut off is received
by the Town Council, nor will any allowance be made for any shutoff period
which is less than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.032 USER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO KEEP SEWER CLEAN.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of the property shall be continuously
responsible for maintain and keeping the sewer pipe leading to and between the
plumbing system of his or her premises to the town’s connecting sewer clean and
free from obstruction, and shall no cause, suffer, or permit any article or
thing, liquid as well as solid, to be introduced into the pipe which caused a
stoppage thereof. In the event of any such obstructions or stoppage the Town
Council shall have the right to cut off the water connection, which shall not
be reconnected until such sewer pipe is cleaned and maintained properly and in
the further event of the failure of such user to remedy such obstruction or
stoppage, the Town Council shall have the right to enter upon the premises and
make necessary repairs, the costs and expenses of which shall be included as
part of the charges against the premises.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.033 LEAKS.
   No allowance or adjustment of any sewer bill shall be made for water leaks
of any nature occurring on the user’s side of the meter if the water so leaked
enters the sewer.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.034 TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE.
   (A)   Neither the town nor the Town Council shall be liable for any damage
resulting from bursting of any sewer main service pipe or valve, or from
discontinuing the operation of its sewer valve, or from discontinuing the
operation of its sewer collection, treatment and disposal facilities, for
repairs, extensions or connections, or from the accidental failure of the
sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities from any cause whatsoever.
   (B)   In cases of emergency, the Town Council shall have the right to
restrict the use of it sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities in
any reasonable manner for the protection of the town and its sewer system.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.035 TAMPERING WITH SEWER APPURTENANCES.
   No person shall turn, lift, remove, raise or tamper with any cover or any
manhole, basin, inlet or other appurtenance of any sanitary and/or storm sewer
without a written permit from the town, or of any combined sewer or sanitary
sewer without a written permit from the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.036 ENTERING SEWER.
   No person other than one employed by the town while on duty, shall enter any
public sanitary and/or storm sewer without a written permit from the town, or
shall enter any public combined sewer or sanitary sewer without a written
permit from the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.037 INJURY TO SEWER.
   No person shall break or damage any public sewer or appurtenance or part
thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.038 PROPER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Sewer pipe shall be Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), schedule 40 or SDR 35
pipe.
      (1)   Pipe size shall be four inches (minimum) at one-eighth inch per
foot or greater slope.
      (2)   Depth shall be 24 inches minimum.
   (B)   (1)   Pipe shall be properly laid. All joints and connections shall be
made watertight and backfill shall be properly placed and compacted.
      (2)   However, no backfill shall be placed until the sewer has been
tested and inspected. Owners shall notify the utility when the sewer is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer, as both testing and
connection must be done under the utility’s supervisions, although at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
DISCHARGE INTO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 54.050 UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGE.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters
such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling
water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited, with storm water
may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer without
permission of the Manager and the necessary permit obtained.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.051 STORM WATER.
   Storm water other than that exempted under Section I, Article V, and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designed as combined sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the
Manager and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Manager to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.052 FLAMMABLE, EXPLOSIVE OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND FOREIGN MATTER.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, crate a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower or higher than that normally
encountered in the system, or having any other corrosive property capable of
causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment/operation and personnel of
the wastewater works without a permit to do so.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, ungrounded garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.053 TOXIC SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
qualifications which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance.
      (2)   The Manager may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below it in his or her opinion such more sever
limitation are necessary to meet the above objectives.
      (3)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the Manager
will give consideration to such factor as the quantity of subject in relation
to flows and velocities in the ewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Manager are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, non-degradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil origin;
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floating oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition of
“properly shredded garbage”in § 54.007). Garbage grinders may be connected to
sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals,
catering establishments or similar places;
      (5)   Where garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens
for the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Manager for such materials;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Manager;
      (8)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as any exceed limits established by the Manager in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (9)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substance which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (11)   Any waters or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release monoxious gases from suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.054 CONDITIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in Section ___ of this subchapter, and which the
judgment of the Manager may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create
a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Manager may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment of cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of §
54.059.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Manager shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharged. If
the Manager permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design
and installations of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Manager.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.055 GREASE, OIL AND SAND SEPARATORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Manager, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts specified in §
53.053, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be a type and capacity approved by the Manager,
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured materials and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the Manager. Any removal and hauling of
the collected materials not performed by owner(s)’ personnel must be performed
by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.056 PRETREATMENT.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.057 METERING AND SAMPLING DEVICES.
   When required by the Manager, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. Such
structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with the plans approved by the Manager. The structure
shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained
by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.058 DESIGN DATA ON CONNECTION.
   The Manager may require a user of sewer services to provide information
needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These requirements may
include:
   (A)   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
   (B)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
   (C)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
   (D)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other material important to sewer use control;
   (E)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
   (F)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and/or
   (G)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.059 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this ordinance shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater”, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Manager.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.060 DISCLAIMER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be constructed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 54.075 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF DISCHARGE INSPECTION.
   The Manager and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.076 COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.
   The Manager or other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.077 REQUIRED SAFETY PROCEDURES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
54.075, the Manager or duly authorized employees of the town shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town employees, and
the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
town employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
54.057.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.078 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO AND FROM ALL NEGOTIATED EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The Manager and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within
the easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
AMENDMENTS TO AND PRECEDENCE OF THE SEWER USE ORDINANCE
§ 54.090 AMENDMENTS TO THE SEWER USE ORDINANCE.
   The Town Council shall, upon an annual basis, or as deemed necessary from
time to time between annual review, review and cause to be enacted such
amendments to this chapter as are necessary to bring the ordinance into
compliance with applicable federal and state regulations and changes thereto.
All such amendments shall clearly delineate subchapter and section to be
altered or expanded.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.091 PRECEDENCE OF PAST AND PRESENT ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Council to review and render a
decision as to a precedence involving a present or past ordinance to insure
compliance with applicable statutes prior to rendering the precedence. Upon
resolution of the discrepancy and the precedence set an amendment to this
chapter shall be enacted as stated in §
54.090.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.092 PRECEDENCE OF THE SEWER USE ORDINANCE AND OTHER CODES.
   Procedures shall be as outlined in §
54.091.
(Ord. passed 4-18-2000)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, corporation or industrial concern who shall violate any of
the provision of §
54.005 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000
every 30 calendar days until the violated provisions of § 51.005 are corrected.
(Ord. passed 2-12-1987; Ord. passed 9-9-2010; Ord. passed 3-9-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
      
74.   PARKING
      
75.   PEDESTRIANS
      
76.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
77.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Enforcement
   
70.15   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.16   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
70.17   Obedience to police officers
   
70.18   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
70.19   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.20   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
70.21   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
70.22   Rights of owners of real property
Traffic Control
   
70.35   Authority and considerations for placement of devices
   
70.36   Conformity with State Manual
   
70.37   Specific powers
   
70.38   Posting of signs and signals required
   
70.39   Board’s powers not limited
   
70.40   Records
   
70.41   Violations subject to penalty
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases when used in this traffic code shall, for
the purpose of this traffic code, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-1) (Prior Code, § 301.01)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service, hospital police
department, state, county or municipal agency and such privately owned
ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers, flag car services, vehicles providing road
service to disabled vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation,
postal service vehicles, snow removal equipment, Class A vehicles of
firefighters, Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services, Class A
vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads, emergency management and
operations vehicles operated by airports and designated pursuant to W. Va. Code
§ 17C-15-26 and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by the agency
responsible for the operation and control of these persons or organizations.
Class A vehicles are as defined by W. Va. Code § 17A-10-1. Agency authorization
and emergency equipment are provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26. Agencies
responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle permits may
promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of permits for
emergency vehicles. In the event that emergency medical technician’s (“EMTs”)
or paramedics on the scene of an emergency are unable to drive an ambulance in
the course of administering patient care, firefighters on the scene shall be
permitted to drive an ambulance; provided, that the Fire Department with which
the firefighters are associated or members and the emergency medical services
provider that owns the ambulance have previously entered into a memorandum of
understanding or other agreement authorizing such action and the firefighter
driving the ambulance has completed an Emergency Vehicle Operations Course
(“EVOC”) otherwise required by state law or legislative rule promulgated
thereunder.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-6) (Prior Code, § 301.02)
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-8) (Prior Code, § 301.03)
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-13) (Prior Code, § 301.04)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use
for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both
sides of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-45) (Prior Code, § 301.05)
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street or roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-41) (Prior Code, § 301.06)
   CROSSWALK. Includes:
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-43) (Prior Code, § 301.07)
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-31) (Prior Code, § 301.08)
   ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
      (1)   A two- or three-wheeled vehicle with fully operable pedals and an
electric motor of fewer than 750 watts. There is a three-class system to
differentiate between the models and top-assisted speeds of electric bicycles.
         (a)   Class 1 electric bicycles have a motor that provides assistance
only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide assistance when the
e-bike reaches 20 mph.
         (b)   Class 2 electric bicycles have a motor that may be used
exclusively to propel the bicycle, and that is not capable of providing
assistance when the e-bike reaches 20 mph.
         (c)   Class 3 electric bicycles have a motor that provides assistance
only when the rider is pedaling, and that ceases to provide assistance when the
e-bike reaches 28 mph.
      (2)   THROTTLE refers to a device that controls the flow of power to the
electric motor on an electric bicycle for the purpose of propelling the
electric bicycle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-70)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE (EPAMD). A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-66)
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-24) (Prior Code, § 301.09)
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-25) (Prior Code, § 301.10)
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-26) (Prior Code, § 301.11)
   INTERSECTION. Includes:
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
streets or highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
      (2)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by
an intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the
event such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or
more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-42) (Prior Code, § 301.12)
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-39) (Prior Code, § 301.13)
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
this traffic code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or
rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5a) (Prior Code, § 301.14)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-4) (Prior Code, § 301.15)
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-5) (Prior Code, § 301.16)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-3) (Prior Code, § 301.17)
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-32) (Prior Code, § 301.18)
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-54) (Prior Code, § 301.19)
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-60) (Prior Code, § 301.20)
   PASSENGER VAN. Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business
or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of
children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus or school bus. PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to,
vehicles used by daycare centers, after-school centers and nursery schools;
provided, that the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-64)
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-30) (Prior Code, § 301.21)
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-29) (Prior Code, § 301.22)
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-17) (Prior Code, § 301.23)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-33) (Prior Code, § 301.24)
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      (1)   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership
and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
      (2)   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard
to the manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-36) (Prior Code, § 301.25)
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-21) (Prior Code, § 301.26)
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-49) (Prior Code, § 301.27)
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-22) (Prior Code, § 301.28)
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-46) (Prior Code, § 301.29)
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-62) (Prior Code, § 301.30)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-51) (Prior Code, § 301.31)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to
all such roadways collectively.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-37) (Prior Code, § 301.32)
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-44) (Prior Code, § 301.33)
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-7) (Prior Code, § 301.34)
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation or athletic events while
attending school.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-55) (Prior Code, § 301.35)
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-16) (Prior Code, § 301.36)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-38) (Prior Code, § 301.37)
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-52) (Prior Code, § 301.38)
   STOP, STOPPING OR STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-53) (Prior Code, § 301.39)
   STREET OR HIGHWAY; ALLEY.
      (1)   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-35)
      (2)   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear
or side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the
purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 301.40)
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion
thereof at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and
when stop signs are erected as provided in this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-40) (Prior Code, § 301.41)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-50) (Prior Code, § 301.42)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. Any sign, signal marking and device not
inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-47) (Prior Code, § 301.43)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-48) (Prior Code, § 301.44)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-15) (Prior Code, § 301.45)
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-12) (Prior Code, § 301.46)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-2) (Prior Code, § 301.47)
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or nonmotorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-65)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this municipality.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 303.01)
§ 70.16 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways
except:
   (A)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; and
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code except §§
72.155 through
72.159 shall apply upon streets and highways as defined in §
70.01.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-1) (Prior Code, § 303.02)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-3(c))
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
(Prior Code, § 303.03)
§ 70.18 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state or any county,
municipality, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this traffic code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (B)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this traffic
code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-4) (Prior Code, § 303.04)
§ 70.19 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
73.18 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-5) (Prior Code, § 303.05)
§ 70.20 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this traffic code, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-6) (Prior Code, § 303.06)
§ 70.21 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and
impounding of a vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
      (2)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property as provided in W. Va. Code § 17-23-2;
      (3)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
      (4)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to
display the current lawfully required license plates;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission
of a felony;
      (6)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable
or violates equipment provisions of this traffic code or W. Va. Code Article
17C-15 whereby its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous
to life, limb or property;
      (7)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured or arrested operator;
      (8)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of a crash or collision;
      (9)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked; and
      (10)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this traffic code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required.
   (B)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (A)(2) of this section
shall be disposed of as provided under W. Va. Code Article 17-24. Any other
vehicle removed under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage
and the Police Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner
of the fact of such removal and impounding, reasons therefor and the place of
storage. Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the
Police Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or
right to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner
or operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations.
The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 303.07)
§ 70.22 RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this traffic code shall be construed to prevent an owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this traffic code, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such
owner.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-2-9)
TRAFFIC CONTROL
§ 70.35 AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   The Town Council shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic control
devices upon any street or highway in the town as are necessary to effectuate
the provisions of this traffic code, or to regulate, warn or guide traffic, and
such other traffic control devices as he or she shall deem necessary for the
proper control of traffic. The Council shall determine the location, timing and
coordination of such traffic control devices upon the basis of an applicable
engineering or traffic investigation and shall consider the following:
   (A)   The maximum safety and protection fo vehicular and pedestrian traffic
from physical injury or property damage;
   (B)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
   (C)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of remedial
measures;
   (D)   The recommendations of the Police and Fire Chiefs;
   (E)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by vehicles
so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
   (F)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
   (G)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
(Prior Code, § 305.01)
§ 70.36 CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
traffic code shall conform to the manual and specifications for uniform traffic
control devices, as set forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-3-1.
(Prior Code, § 305.02)
§ 70.37 SPECIFIC POWERS.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right-of-way as may be required
before entering the same;
   (B)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such intersection;
   (C)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right-of- way as required;
   (D)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specific direction;
   (E)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular
direction regardless of the center line of the roadway;
   (F)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane or
allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
   (G)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and passing
other traffic or driving to the left of the center or center line of the
roadway would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the
street to indicate the beginning and end of such zones. Such zones may be
marked by an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the
normal center line or offset marked lane line;
   (H)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring turns at
such intersection;
   (I)   Install traffic control devices, signals and signs at any location to
regulate traffic;
   (J)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks and zones of quiet and play
streets;
   (K)   Close any street or portion thereof to vehicular traffic which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction or repair;
   (L)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab stands;
   (M)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones;
   (N)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs thereat;
   (O)   Erect “No U-Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction;
   (P)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on
streets, alleys or public property by erecting signs plainly indicating the
prohibitions, restrictions or limitations, or by establishing parking meter
zones;
   (Q)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either be
parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway;
   (R)   Designate truck routes and streets or parts thereof where either a
weight limit restriction or truck exclusion has been imposed by rule or
regulation provided such is not in conflict with any legislation; and
   (S)   Erect signs to prohibit a right or left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection.
(Prior Code, § 305.03)
§ 70.38 POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provisions of this subchapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of such local traffic regulations are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinary observant person.
(Prior Code, § 305.04)
§ 70.39 BOARD’S POWERS NOT LIMITED.
   The powers of the Town Council shall not be limited by the specific
enumeration of subjects contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 305.05)
§ 70.40 RECORDS.
   The Recorder shall keep a record of all rules, regulations and proceedings
promulgated in connection with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 305.06)
§ 70.41 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating the rules and regulations
promulgated in connection with this subchapter is guilty of a violation which
shall be punished as provided in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 305.07)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for which another
penalty is not provided shall, for a first conviction thereof, be fined not
more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days; for a second such
conviction within one year thereafter such person shall be fined not more than
$200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction such person shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-18-1) (Prior Code, § 303.99)
CHAPTER 71: STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
Street Obstructions and Special Uses
   
71.01   Placing injurious material in the street
   
71.02   Play streets
   
71.03   Toy vehicles on streets
   
71.04   Parades and assemblages
Traffic Control Devices
   
71.15   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
71.16   Obedience to traffic control instructions at street construction
   
71.17   Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
71.18   Pedestrian control signals
   
71.19   Flashing traffic signals
   
71.20   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
71.21   Alteration, injury, removal of traffic control devices
   
71.22   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
71.99   Penalty
STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
§ 71.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN THE STREET.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure
any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-11)
   (D)   No person shall throw, place or deposit upon any street or highway any
material, article or substance which injures or damages, or is likely to injure
or damage, the street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 311.01)
§ 71.02 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of engaging
in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways specifically
set aside for such purposes.
   (B)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 311.02)
§ 71.03 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
(Prior Code, § 311.03)
§ 71.04 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   No person, group of persons or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (B)   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession or assemblage.
   (C)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
      (1)   The time, place, size or conduct of the parade including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading or incomplete in any material detail; or
      (6)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (D)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
(Prior Code, § 311.04)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.15 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
   (B)   (1)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the
alleged violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
      (2)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, such section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or
in place.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4) (Prior Code, § 313.01)
§ 71.16 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic control devices, act as
flagmen or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4a) (Prior Code, § 313.02)
§ 71.17 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows
   (A)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
71.16, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such
place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles
turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone except as provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that Council
may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal at
any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at
such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal
at such intersection, except that Council may by ordinance prohibit any such
left turn against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance
shall be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice
thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (E)   Traffic control sign at place other than intersection. In the event an
official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than
an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as
to those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop
shall be made at the signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-5) (Prior Code, § 313.03)
§ 71.18 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-6) (Prior Code, § 313.04)
§ 71.19 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   Local authorities, in areas that experience low traffic times, may
permit flashing signals between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-7) (Prior Code, § 313.05)
§ 71.20 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain or display upon or
in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic control device or
traffic control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic control device bearing thereon
any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection
upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official
signs.
   (B)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-8) (Prior Code, § 313.06)
§ 71.21 ALTERATION, INJURY, REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
other part thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-9) (Prior Code, § 313.07)
§ 71.22 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (A)   Where street or highway construction work is being conducted, signs
and other traffic control devices, as adopted in W. Va. Code § 17C-3-1, shall
be posted giving the location of the work and notifying all motorists as to the
speed limit and any other traffic restrictions.
   (B)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this traffic code for such violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-3-4b)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. See §
70.99 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
(Prior Code, §§ 311.99; 313.99)
   (B)   General penalty. Whoever violates §§
71.01,
71.02 or
71.04 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Construction zones.
      (1)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.16 by less than 15 mph shall be fined not more than $200.
      (2)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
71.16 by 15 mph or more shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 20 days, or both.
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Accidents
   
72.001   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
72.002   Crashes involving damage to vehicle
   
72.003   Duty to give information and render aid
   
72.004   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
72.005   Collision with fixtures upon a street or highway
   
72.006   Immediate reports of crashes
   
72.007   When driver unable to report
   
72.008   Garages to report bullet damage
Driving Under the Influence; Reckless Driving
   
72.020   Driving under the influence
   
72.021   Reckless driving
   
72.022   Hazardous driving
   
72.023   Participation in Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
Open Container Law
   
72.035   Definitions
   
72.036   Possession of open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area
of a motor vehicle
   
72.037   Procedure on arrest
Speed Restrictions
   
72.050   Maximum speed limits
   
72.051   Slow speed
   
72.052   Special speed limitations
   
72.053   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
   
72.054   Prima facie evidence of speed by radar
   
72.055   Special speed limitations when meeting or overtaking waste service
vehicles
Driving on Right; Passing
   
72.070   Driving upon right side of roadway; exemptions
   
72.071   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
72.072   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
72.073   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
72.074   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
72.075   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.076   Hazardous or no passing zones
   
72.077   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.078   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
72.079   Following too closely
   
72.080   Driving upon divided roadways
   
72.081   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
Turning and Starting; Signals
   
72.095   Conformity with provisions required
   
72.096   Right turns
   
72.097   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
72.098   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
72.099   Specified turns at intersections
   
72.100   “U” turns restricted
   
72.101   Starting vehicle
   
72.102   Signals before changing course, turning or stopping
   
72.103   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
72.104   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.115   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.116   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.117   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
72.118   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
72.119   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
72.120   Turning into private driveway, alley or building
Special Stops Required
   
72.135   Driving across grade crossing
   
72.136   Stops at dangerous grade crossings
   
72.137   Stopping at grade crossing
   
72.138   Moving heavy equipment across grade crossings
   
72.139   Through streets and stop intersections
   
72.140   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
72.141   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
72.142   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
72.143   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
   
72.155   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
72.156   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
72.157   Maximum height, width and length
   
72.158   Loads dropping or leaking
   
72.159   Towing requirements
Miscellaneous Traffic Rules
   
72.170   Backing a vehicle
   
72.171   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
72.172   Passengers in seat with operator
   
72.173   Passengers on running board
   
72.174   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.175   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.176   Driving over fire hose
   
72.177   Funeral processions
   
72.178   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
72.179   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
72.180   Unauthorized riding or jumping onto vehicles
   
72.181   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
72.182   Taking, injuring or tampering with vehicle
   
72.183   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn or curb
   
72.184   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
   
72.185   Coasting prohibited
   
72.186   Driving through safety zone
   
72.187   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
72.188   Obstruction of traffic
   
72.189   Vehicle security
   
72.190   Littering from a motor vehicle
   
72.191   Electronically distracted driving
Licensing
   
72.205   Registration, certificate of title required
   
72.206   Registration card
   
72.207   Display of registration plates
   
72.208   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
72.209   Improper use of registration card, plate or permit
   
72.210   Driver or motorcycle license required
   
72.211   Persons exempt from license
   
72.212   Display of license
   
72.213   Certain acts prohibited
   
72.214   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
72.215   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
 
   
72.999   Penalty
ACCIDENTS
§ 72.001 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in the injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of
the crash or as close to the scene as possible and return to and remain at the
scene of the crash until he or she has complied with the requirements of §
72.003; provided, that the driver may leave the scene of the crash as may
reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance to any person
injured in the crash, as required by §
72.003.
   (B)   Any driver who is involved in a crash in which another person suffers
bodily injury and who intentionally violates division (A) of this section when
he or she knows or has reason to believe that another person has suffered
physical injury in said crash shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) of this section, any
driver who is involved in a crash in which another person suffers serious
bodily injury and who intentionally violates division (A) of this section when
he or she knows or has reason to believe that another person has suffered
physical injury in said crash is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (D)   Notwithstanding divisions (B) or (C) of this section, any driver who
is involved in a crash that proximately causes the death of another person who
intentionally violates division (A) of this section when he or she knows or has
reason to believe that another person has suffered physical injury in said
crash is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness or
any impairment of physical condition.
      PHYSICAL INJURY. Bodily injury, serious bodily injury or death.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ, loss
of pregnancy, or the morbidity or mortality occurring because of a pre-term
delivery.
   (F)   The Commissioner shall revoke the license or permit or operating
privilege to drive of any resident or nonresident person convicted pursuant to
the provisions of this section for a period of one year from the date of
conviction or the date of release from incarceration, whichever is later.
   (G)   This section may be known and cited as Erin’s Law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1) (Prior Code, § 331.01)
§ 72.002 CRASHES INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash or as close thereto as possible but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such crash
until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
72.003. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with these requirements under
such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-2) (Prior Code, § 331.02)
§ 72.003 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall, if physically able to do so, provide to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with, the following:
         (a)   His or her name, a valid telephone number where he or she may be
contacted and the year, make, model and last four digits of the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle he or she is driving; and
         (b)   Proof of security and financial responsibility required by W.
Va. Code §§ 17D-2A-3 and 17D-4-2, and if provided by insurance, the information
provided upon the certificate of insurance, including the name of the insured,
the name and contact information of the insurer and insurance policy number.
      (2)   A driver may meet the requirements of this division (A) by
providing the information required herein to a law enforcement officer who is
investigating or providing assistance at the scene of the collision, who shall,
if practical under the circumstances, provide the information to any person
entitled thereto pursuant to this division (A).
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to
or death of any person, if physically able to do so, shall render to any person
injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon or
hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-3) (Prior Code, § 331.03)
§ 72.004 COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-4) (Prior Code, § 331.04)
§ 72.005 COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON A STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall upon request
and if available exhibit his or her driver’s license and shall make report of
such crash when and as required.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-5) (Prior Code, § 331.05)
§ 72.006 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF CRASHES.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to or death
of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $1,000 or more
shall immediately by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such
crash to the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-6) (Prior Code, § 331.06)
§ 72.007 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate notification of a crash as required in §
72.006 and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the crash
capable of making a notification, such occupant shall make or cause to be made
such notification not made by the driver.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-8) (Prior Code, § 331.07)
§ 72.008 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet, shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-12) (Prior Code, § 331.08)
DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; RECKLESS DRIVING
§ 72.020 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness or
any impairment of physical condition.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the meaning provided in W. Va. Code § 60A-1-
101.
      IMPAIRED STATE. A person:
         (a)   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         (b)   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         (c)   Is under the influence of any other drug or inhalant substance;
         (d)   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         (e)   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of eight
hundredths of one percent or more, by weight.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
      TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM. The Motor Vehicle Test and Lock Program,
established in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a and administered by the Division of
Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she
is in an impaired state, and such impaired state proximately causes a bodily
injury to any person other than himself or herself, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than one
day nor more than one year and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by
the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of two years or
for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program
in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the person has
previously been convicted under this section, the person shall have his or her
license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division
of Motor Vehicles for life or for a period of time conditioned on participation
in the test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Any
jail term imposed pursuant to this division (B) shall include actual
confinement of not less than 24 hours; provided, however, that a person
sentenced pursuant to this division (B) shall receive credit for any period of
actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (C)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private road
in this municipality: while he or she is in an impaired state; or while he or
she is in an impaired state but has an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of less than fifteen hundredths of one percent, by weight, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be confined in jail for up to six
months and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of six months or for a period of
time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in accordance
with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that a person sentenced pursuant to
this division (C) shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he
or she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (D)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private road
in this municipality while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of fifteen hundredths of one percent or more, by weight, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not
less than two days nor more than six months, which jail term is to include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$200 nor more than $1,000, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a
period of one year or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the
test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. A person
sentenced pursuant to this division (D) shall receive credit for any period of
actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (E)   Any person who, being a habitual user of narcotic drugs or
amphetamines, or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle on any public highway
or private road in this state is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than one day nor more than six
months, which jail term is to include actual confinement of not less than 24
hours, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of
the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of six months. A person sentenced
pursuant to this division (E) shall receive credit for any period of actual
confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in this municipality by any other person who
is in an impaired state is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have his or her license
to operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor
Vehicles for a period of six months or for a period of time conditioned on
participation in the test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a.
   (G)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven on
any public highway or private road in this municipality by any other person who
is a habitual user of narcotic drugs or amphetamines, or any derivative
thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
confined in jail for not more than six months and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500 and shall have his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a
period of six months.
   (H)   (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle on any
public highway or private road in this municipality while he or she has an
alcohol concentration in his or her blood of two hundredths of one percent or
more, by weight, but less than eight hundredths of one percent, by weight, for
a first offense under this division (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, and
have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle suspended by the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of 60 days or for a
period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program in
accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. For a second or subsequent offense
under this division (H), the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for 24 hours and shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500, and shall have his or her license to
operate a motor vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor
Vehicles for a period of one year or until the person’s twenty-first birthday,
whichever period is longer, or for a period of time conditioned on
participation in the test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a. A person who is charged with a first offense under the provisions of
this division (H) may move for a continuance of the proceedings, from time to
time, to allow the person to participate in the test and lock program as
provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Upon successful completion of the program,
the court shall dismiss the charge against the person and expunge the person’s
record as it relates to the alleged offense. In the event the person fails to
successfully complete the program, the court shall proceed to an adjudication
of the alleged offense. A motion for a continuance under this division (H) may
not be construed as an admission or be used as evidence.
      (2)   (a)   Notwithstanding division (H)(1) of this section, a person
shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle suspended or revoked
for a minimum period of one year or for a period of time conditioned on
participation in the test and lock program in accordance with W. Va. Code §
17C-5A-3a, if the person:
            1.   Has previously been convicted under this division (H) and is
subsequently convicted of an offense under another division of this section; or
            2.   Is convicted under this division (H) and has previously been
convicted of an offense under another division of this section.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (H) permits a shorter period of license
revocation, license suspension, or participation in the test and lock program
than is mandatory for the specific offense for which the person is convicted.
      (3)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the provisions
of this division (H)(3) or divisions (B), (C), (D), (E), (F) or (G) of this
section may not also be charged with an offense under this division (H) arising
out of the same transaction or occurrence.
   (I)   Any person who drives a vehicle on any public highway or private road
in this municipality while he or she is in an impaired state and has within the
vehicle one or more persons who are unemancipated minors who have not yet
reached their sixteenth birthday is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than two days nor
more than 12 months, and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000, and shall have his or her license to operate a motor vehicle revoked by
the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for a period of one year or
for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock program
in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that such jail term shall
include actual confinement of not less than 48 hours; provided, however, that a
person sentenced pursuant to this division (I) shall receive credit for any
period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject
offense.
   (J)   A person convicted of an offense under this section who has previously
been convicted of any offense under this section on one occasion, is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not
less than six months nor more than one year may be fined not less than $1,000
nor more than $3,000 and shall have his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle revoked by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles for ten
years or for a period of time conditioned on participation in the test and lock
program in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a; provided, that if the
second conviction is for an offense as described in division (B) of this
section and the division creating the offense requires a period of
incarceration, period of license revocation, or fine that is greater than what
is required for a conviction under this division (J), the greater period of
incarceration, period of revocation, or fine shall be imposed; provided,
however, that this division (J) does not apply to a second conviction that is
subject to a period of license revocation under division (H) of this section.
   (K)   For purposes of division (J) of this section relating to second
offenses, the following events shall be regarded as offenses and convictions
under this section:
      (1)   Any conviction under the provisions of divisions (B), (C), (D),
(E), (F) or (G), of this section, or under a prior enactment of this section,
for an offense which occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding
the date of arrest in the current proceeding;
      (2)   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of this state or any
other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in divisions (B),
(C), (D), (E), (F) or (G) of this section, which offense occurred within the
ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current
proceeding; and
      (3)   Any period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W. Va. Code
§ 17C-5-2b for violation of division (C) of this section, which violation
occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in
the current proceeding.
   (L)   (1)   A person may be charged in a warrant, indictment, or information
for a second or subsequent offense, as described in divisions (H) or (J) of
this section, if the person has been previously arrested for, or charged with,
a violation of this section which is alleged to have occurred within the
applicable time period for prior offenses, notwithstanding the fact that there
has not been a final adjudication of the charges for the alleged previous
offense. In that case, the warrant or indictment or information must set forth
the date, location and particulars of the previous offense or offenses.
      (2)   No person may be convicted of a second or subsequent offense under
this section unless the conviction for the previous offense has become final,
or the person has previously had a period of conditional probation imposed
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b.
   (M)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of divisions (B),
(C), (D) or (E) of this section, or any person permitted to drive as described
under divisions (F) or (G) of this section, is or has been legally entitled to
use alcohol, a controlled substance, or a drug does not constitute a defense
against any charge of violating divisions (B), (C), (D), (E), (F) or (G) of
this section.
   (N)   (1)   The sentences provided in this section upon conviction for a
violation of this section are mandatory and are not subject to suspension or
probation; provided, that the court may apply the provisions of W. Va. Code §§
62-11A-1 et seq. to a person sentenced or committed to a term of one year or
less for a first offense under this section; provided, however, that the court
may impose a term of conditional probation pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b
to persons adjudicated thereunder.
      (2)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code §§ 62-11B-1 et seq. may be used as an alternative sentence to
any period of incarceration required by this section for a first or subsequent
offense; provided, further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered
for a person convicted of a second offense under this section, electronic
monitoring shall be required for no fewer than five days of the total period of
home confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those five
days notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5; and provided
further, that for any period of home incarceration ordered for a person
convicted of a third or subsequent violation of this section, electronic
monitoring shall be included for no fewer than ten days of the total period of
home confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those ten days
notwithstanding W. Va. Code § 62-11B-5.
   (O)   A person whose license to operate a motor vehicle has been revoked or
suspended by the Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles pursuant to
this section must complete a comprehensive safety and treatment program as set
forth in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3 before his or her license to operate a motor
vehicle can be reinstated and his or her driving privileges restored.
   (P)   For any offense for which an alternative revocation period is
permitted conditioned upon participation in the test and lock program, an
alternative sentence may not be imposed without the consent of the driver.
   (Q)   Upon entering the order of conviction for an offense under this
section, or the imposition of conditional probation as provided in W. Va. Code
§ 17C-5-2b, the Clerk of the Court shall immediately transmit the order to the
Commissioner of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2) (Prior Code, § 333.01) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed -
-; Ord. passed 11-9-1962; Ord. passed 5-12-2005; Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 72.021 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private or upon the property
of the Board of Education, or upon any property within the municipal park and
public recreation system, in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of
persons or property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply to
those areas which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which
may be set aside by the municipality within the park and recreation system for
exclusive use by motorcycles or other recreational vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-3) (Prior Code, § 333.02)
§ 72.022 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full-time attention to the operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 333.03) (Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 72.023 PARTICIPATION IN MOTOR VEHICLE ALCOHOL TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, the court,
without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused, shall
defer further proceedings and impose probation, when:
         (a)   The person pleads to or is found guilty of the offense defined
in §
72.020(C);
         (b)   The person has not previously been convicted of any offense
under this subchapter or under any statute of the United States or of any state
relating to driving under the influence of alcohol, any controlled substance,
or any other drug; and
         (c)   The person notifies the court within 30 days of his or her
arrest of his or her intention to participate in a deferral pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   If all the requirements in division (A)(1) of this section are met,
the court, without entering a judgment of guilt, shall defer further
proceedings and place the person on probation, the conditions of which shall
include that he or she successfully completes the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test
and Lock Program as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-5A-3a. Participation therein
shall be for a period of at least 165 days after a 15-day suspension of his or
her license to operate a motor vehicle and shall be completed within one year
thereafter.
   (B)   (1)   If the prosecuting attorney files a motion alleging that the
defendant during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
has been removed therefrom by the Division of Motor Vehicles, or has failed to
successfully complete the program before making a motion for dismissal pursuant
to division (C) of this section, the court may issue such process as is
necessary to bring the defendant before the court.
      (2)   A motion alleging a violation filed pursuant to division (C)(1) of
this section must be filed during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test
and Lock Program or, if filed thereafter, must be filed within a reasonable
time after the alleged violation was committed.
      (3)   When the defendant is brought before the court, the court shall
afford the defendant an opportunity to be heard. If the court finds that the
defendant has been rightfully removed from the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program by the Division of Motor Vehicles, the court may order, when
appropriate, that the deferral be terminated, and thereupon enter an
adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided.
      (4)   Should the defendant fail to complete or be removed from the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program, the defendant waives the appropriate
statute of limitations and the defendant’s right to a speedy trial under any
applicable federal or state constitutional provisions, statutes, or rules of
court during the period of enrollment in the program.
   (C)   When the defendant shall have completed satisfactorily the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program and complied with its conditions, the
defendant may move the court for an order dismissing the charges. This motion
shall be supported by affidavit of the defendant and by certification of the
Division of Motor Vehicles that the defendant has successfully completed the
Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program. A copy of the motion shall be
served on the prosecuting attorney who shall within 30 days after service
advise the judge of any objections to the motion, serving a copy of such
objections on the defendant or the defendant’s attorney. If there are no
objections filed within the 30-day period, the court shall thereafter dismiss
the charges against the defendant. If there are objections filed with regard to
the dismissal of charges, the court shall proceed as set forth in division (B)
of this section.
   (D)   Except as provided herein, unless a defendant adjudicated pursuant to
this division (B) is convicted of a subsequent violation of §
72.020 or W. Va. Code § 17C-5, discharge and dismissal under this section shall
be without adjudication of guilt and is not a conviction for purposes of
disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime,
except for those provided in W. Va. Code §§ 17C-5A-1 et seq. Except as provided
in §
72.020 regarding subsequent offenses, the effect of the dismissal and discharge
shall be to restore the person in contemplation of law to the status he or she
occupied prior to arrest and trial. No person as to whom a dismissal and
discharge have been effected shall be thereafter held to be guilty of perjury,
false swearing, or otherwise giving a false statement by reason of his or her
failure to disclose or acknowledge his or her arrest or trial in response to
any inquiry made of him or her for any purpose other than any inquiry made in
connection with any subsequent offense as provided in §
72.020.
   (E)   There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this section with
respect to any person.
   (F)   No person shall be eligible for dismissal and discharge under this
section:
      (1)   In any prosecution in which any violation of any other provision of
§
72.020 or W. Va. Code § 17C-5 has been charged;
      (2)   If the person holds a commercial driver’s license or operates
commercial motor vehicles;
      (3)   If the person has previously had his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle revoked for any offense under a municipal ordinance of this state
or any other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state
which has the same elements as an offense described in this subchapter; or
      (4)   If a court entered an order finding that the person refused the
secondary chemical test pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17C-5-7a.
   (G)   (1)   After a period of not less than one year, which shall begin to
run immediately upon the expiration of a term of probation imposed upon any
person under this section, the person may apply to the court for an order to
expunge all official records of his or her arrest, trial, and conviction,
pursuant to this section except for those maintained by the Division of Motor
Vehicles; provided, that any person who has previously been convicted of a
felony may not make a motion for expungement pursuant to this section.
      (2)   If the prosecuting attorney objects to the expungement, the
objections shall be filed with the court within 30 days after service of a
motion for expungement, and copies of the objections shall be served on the
defendant or the defendant’s attorney.
      (3)   If the objections are filed, the court shall hold a hearing on the
objections, affording all parties an opportunity to be heard. If the court
determines after a hearing that the person during the period of his or her
probation and during the period of time prior to his or her application to the
court under this division (G) has not been guilty of any serious or repeated
violation of the conditions of his or her probation, it shall order the
expungement.
   (H)   (1)   A person prosecuted for an offense under §
72.020(C), whose case is disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this
section, shall be required to pay the amount of court costs that could be
assessed against a person convicted of the offense.
      (2)   Payment of such costs may be made a condition of probation. The
costs assessed pursuant to this division (H), whether as a term of probation or
not, shall be distributed as other court costs in accordance with W. Va. Code
§§ 50-3-2; 14-2A-4; 30-29-4; and 62-5-2, 62-5-7 and 62-5-10.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5-2b)
OPEN CONTAINER LAW
§ 72.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Means:
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor as defined in W. Va. Code § 60-1-5; and
      (2)   Nonintoxicating beer as defined in W. Va. Code § 11-16-3.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and
manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a
vehicle operated solely on a rail or rails.
   OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other receptacle that:
      (1)   Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (2)   (a)   Is open or has a broken seal; or
         (b)   Has had its contents partially removed.
   PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. The area designed to seat the driver and
passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily
accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions. For
purposes of this definition, the PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE does not
include:
      (1)   (a)   A locked glove compartment; or
         (b)   A fixed center console or other similar fixed compartment that
is locked.
      (2)   In a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk;
         (a)   The area behind the last upright seat; or
         (b)   An area not normally occupied by the driver or a passenger.
      (3)   In a pickup truck that has no trunk, camper top or separate
enclosed area other than the cab of the truck, in the area behind the front
seat of the truck in a locked case or container located so as to not be readily
accessible to the driver or passengers while in their seating positions.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY OF A PUBLIC HIGHWAY. The entire width between
the immediately adjacent to the boundary lines of every way that is publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-2)
§ 72.036 POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER IN THE PASSENGER AREA
OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
consume any alcoholic beverage in the passenger area of a motor vehicle located
on a public highway or right-of-way of a public highway in this municipality,
whether the vehicle is in motion or at rest.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
knowingly possess any open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area
of any motor vehicle that is located on a public highway or right-of-way of a
public highway in this municipality, whether the vehicle is in motion or at
rest. Possession by a person of one or more open containers in a single
criminal occurrence is a single offense.
   (C)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to a passenger:
      (1)   In the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained or
used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation including,
but not limited to, a bus, taxicab or limousine; or
      (2)   In the living quarters of a motorized or nonmotorized house coach,
house trailer, motor home or self-contained camper.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-3)
§ 72.037 PROCEDURE ON ARREST.
   If a person is arrested for an offense under the provisions of this
subchapter, unless the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17C-19-3 require that the
person arrested be taken immediately before a magistrate for an offense
described in that section, the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 17C, Article
19 regarding the issuance of a traffic citation containing a notice to appear
applies.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-5D-4)
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.050 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) of this section the speed of any vehicle not in
excess of the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter
authorized is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in
this division (B) or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful.
      (1)   The following speed limits apply:
         (a)   Fifteen miles per hour in a school zone during school recess or
while children are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
A school zone is all school property including school grounds and any street or
highway abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street
or highway from the school grounds and, in the case of school property not
abutting a street or highway but accessed through a right-of-way granted for
entrance to school property, a school zone established by an engineering study
conducted by the Division of Highways is all school property, including school
grounds and any property within the access right-of-way, and extending 125 feet
along the street or highway from the entrance to the access right-of-way. The
speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on a controlled-access
highway which is separated from the school or school grounds by a fence or
barrier approved by the Division of Highways;
         (b)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any business or residence
district; and
         (c)   Fifty-five miles per hour on open country highways; except as
otherwise provided by this subchapter.
      (2)   The speeds set forth in this section may be altered as authorized
in W. Va. Code Article 17C-6.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (A) of this section, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazard exists
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
   (D)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 miles per hour and the speed limits specified in division (B) of this
section do not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1) (Prior Code, § 335.01)
§ 72.051 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-3a(a)) (Prior Code, § 335.02)
§ 72.052 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this traffic code no person
shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped with
pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour in any business district;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residence district;
      (3)   Forty miles per hour on open country highway; and
      (4)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-4)
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten miles per hour.
   (C)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-5)
(Prior Code, § 335.03)
§ 72.053 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or
timer or in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on
any public street or highway in this municipality.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, SPEED RACE means:
      (1)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
      (2)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8(a)) (Prior Code, § 335.04)
§ 72.054 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF SPEED BY RADAR.
   The speed of a motor vehicle may be proved by evidence obtained by use of
any device designed to measure and indicate or record the speed of a moving
object by means of microwaves or reflected light, when such evidence is
obtained by members of the Police Department. The evidence so obtained shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-7)
§ 72.055 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS WHEN MEETING OR OVERTAKING WASTE SERVICE
VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle and meet or overtake from either
direction a stopped waste service vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 miles per
hour.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, WASTE SERVICE VEHICLE means any garbage
collection vehicle, including a vehicle collecting recyclables or yard waste,
which is used for curbside collection, makes frequent stops and is not fully
automated.
   (C)   The speed limitation set forth in division (A) of this section applies
only under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The waste service vehicle is identifiable as a waste service
vehicle based on the vehicle configuration or markings on the vehicle;
      (2)   The waste service vehicle operator is giving a visual signal by
means of a stationary sign to warn of the presence of workers or must use
flashing lights as permitted in this code to caution other drivers; and
      (3)   The waste service vehicle is not located on a private driveway,
controlled access highway, interstate highway, turnpike or road or highway with
a centerline and more than two lanes.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11)
DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
§ 72.070 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-1) (Prior Code, § 337.01)
§ 72.071 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-2) (Prior Code, § 337.02)
§ 72.072 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction subject to these limitations, exceptions and special
rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left of the
overtaken vehicle at a safe distance and may not again drive to the right side
of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed, and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (C)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-3) (Prior Code, § 337.03)
§ 72.073 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-4) (Prior Code, § 337.04)
§ 72.074 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (B)   In every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-5) (Prior Code, § 337.05)
§ 72.075 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing; and
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct or tunnel.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-6) (Prior Code, § 337.06)
§ 72.076 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-7) (Prior Code, § 337.07)
§ 72.077 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-8(b), (c)) (Prior Code, § 337.08)
§ 72.078 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane except
in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-9) (Prior Code, § 337.09)
§ 72.079 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (B)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided that
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no passing zone”;
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of this state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-10) (Prior Code, § 337.10)
§ 72.080 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through an
opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a crossover
or intersection established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-11) (Prior Code, § 337.11)
§ 72.081 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-7-12) (Prior Code, § 337.13)
TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
§ 72.095 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-1) (Prior Code, § 339.01)
§ 72.096 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-2) (Prior Code, § 339.02)
§ 72.097 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both directions on
each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left turn shall be
made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the centerline
thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it enters the
intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the roadway
being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion
of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-3) (Prior Code, § 339.03)
§ 72.098 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle
and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave
the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-4) (Prior Code, § 339.04)
§ 72.099 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers, buttons or
signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this subchapter be
traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons or
signs are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection other than as directed and required by such markers, buttons or
signs.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-5) (Prior Code, § 339.05)
§ 72.100 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-6)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs are
erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
(Prior Code, § 339.06)
§ 72.101 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-7) (Prior Code, § 339.07)
§ 72.102 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
72.096 to
72.099, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement. A
signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning.
   (B)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-8) (Prior Code, § 339.08)
§ 72.103 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either by means
of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device,
but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle then such signals
must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-9) (Prior Code, § 339.09)
§ 72.104 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (A)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (B)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
   (C)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-8-10) (Prior Code, § 339.10)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.115 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway. When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different
street or highway at approximately the same time the driver of the vehicle on
the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section are modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as
hereinafter stated in this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-1) (Prior Code, § 341.01)
§ 72.116 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this traffic code may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-2) (Prior Code, § 341.02)
§ 72.117 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
72.139 at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways or which are approaching so closely on such through
street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard but the driver having so
yielded may proceed.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-3) (Prior Code, § 341.03)
§ 72.118 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-4) (Prior Code, § 341.04)
§ 72.119 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
73.18, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated
as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-5) (Prior Code, § 341.05)
§ 72.120 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY OR BUILDING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway;
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof; and
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway or building.
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 72.135 DRIVING ACROSS GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagger gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
street or highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
      (4)   Any approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-1) (Prior Code, § 343.01)
§ 72.136 STOPS AT DANGEROUS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Council or other designated traffic authority with the approval of the
State Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to designate particularly
dangerous highway grade crossings of railroads and to erect stop signs thereat.
   (B)   When such stop signs are erected the driver of any vehicle shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad
and shall proceed only upon exercising due care.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-2) (Prior Code, § 343.02)
§ 72.137 STOPPING AT GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, the driver
of a commercial motor vehicle specified in division (B) of this section shall
not cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first:
         (a)   Stops the commercial motor vehicle within 50 feet of, and not
closer than 15 feet to, the tracks;
         (b)   Thereafter, listens and looks in each direction along the tracks
for an approaching train; and
         (c)   Ascertains that no train is approaching.
      (2)   When it is safe to do so, the driver may drive the commercial motor
vehicle across the tracks in a gear that permits the commercial motor vehicle
to complete the crossing without change of gears. The driver shall not shift
gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   The following commercial vehicles are required to stop at railroad
tracks or tracks at grade:
      (1)   Every bus transporting passengers;
      (2)   Every commercial motor vehicle transporting any quantity of a
United States Department of Transportation defined division 2.3 chlorine;
      (3)   Every commercial motor vehicle which, in accordance with United
States Department of Transportation regulations, is marked or placarded and is
required to stop in accordance with 49 C.F.R. § 392.10(a)(3)(2001);
      (4)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, loaded or empty, used for the
transportation of any hazardous material, as defined in Federal Department of
Transportation hazardous materials rules, 49 C.F.R. §§ 107 through 180;
      (5)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle transporting a commodity which, at
the time of loading, has a temperature above its flashpoint as determined by 49
C.F.R. § 173.120; and
      (6)   Every cargo tank motor vehicle, whether loaded or empty,
transporting any commodity exemption in accordance with 49 C.F.R. part 107
subpart B.
   (C)   Any vehicle owned by an employer which, in carrying on the employer’s
business or in carrying employees to and from work, carries more than six
employees of the employer is required to stop at all railroad tracks or tracks
at grade, in accordance with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles not required to stop at
railroad tracks or tracks at grade as provided in division (A) of this section
may not cross a railroad track or tracks at grade unless he or she first slows
the commercial motor vehicle to a speed which will permit the commercial motor
vehicle to be stopped before reaching the nearest rail of the railroad crossing
and permit exercise of due caution to ascertain that the tracks are clear of an
approaching train.
   (E)   All drivers of commercial motor vehicles may not proceed to cross a
railroad crossing unless there is sufficient space to drive completely through
the crossing without stopping and the vehicle has sufficient undercarriage
clearance to drive completely through the crossing without stopping.
   (F)   No stop need be made at:
      (1)   Any crossing where a police officer, crossing flagger or a traffic
control signal directs traffic to proceed;
      (2)   A streetcar crossing, or railroad tracks used exclusively for
industrial switching purposes within a business district, as defined in 49
C.F.R. § 390.5;
      (3)   A railroad grade crossing controlled by a functioning highway
traffic signal transmitting a green indication which, under local law permits
the commercial motor vehicle to proceed across the track without slowing or
stopping; or
      (4)   A railroad grade crossing which is marked with a sign indicating
that the rail line is out of service.
   (G)   Any person driving a vehicle specified in this section or a vehicle
that requires a commercial driver’s license who fails to comply with the
requirements of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, that if the
electric or mechanical signal device is malfunctioning, this division (G) shall
not apply.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-3) (Prior Code, § 343.03)
§ 72.138 MOVING HEAVY EQUIPMENT ACROSS GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller or any equipment or structure having a normal operating
speed of ten or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load clearance of
less than one-half inch per foot of the distance between any two adjacent axles
or in any event, of less than nine inches, measured above the level surface of
a roadway, upon or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first
complying with this section.
   (B)   Notice of any such intended crossing shall be given to a station agent
of such railroad and a reasonable time be given to such railroad to provide
proper protection at such crossing.
   (C)   Before making any such crossing the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same not less than 15 feet nor
more than 50 feet from the nearest rail of such railroad and while so stopped
shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any approaching
train, and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall not
proceed until the crossing can be made safely.
   (D)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal or crossing gates or a flagger or otherwise of the immediate approach of
a railroad train or car. If a flagger is provided by the railroad, movement
over the crossing shall be under his or her direction.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-4) (Prior Code, § 343.04)
§ 72.139 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (B)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected on
the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (C)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (D)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or in the event
there is no crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-5) (Prior Code, § 343.05)
§ 72.140 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-6) (Prior Code, § 343.06)
§ 72.141 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-12-8 and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road
or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
   (B)   Where the actual identity of the operator of a motor vehicle operated
in violation of division (A) of this section is unknown but the license plate
number of the motor vehicle is known, it may be inferred that the operator was
an owner or lessee of the motor vehicle for purposes of the probable cause
determination. Where there is more than one registered owner or lessee, the
inference created by this division (B) shall apply to the first listed owner or
lessee as found on the motor vehicle registration; provided, that a person
charged with a violation of division (A) of this section under the provisions
of this division (B) where the sole evidence against the owner or lessee is the
presence of the vehicle at the scene at the time of the offense shall only be
subject to the applicable fine set forth in §
72.999(H).
   (C)   Service of process of a complaint issued pursuant to division (B) of
this section shall be effected consistent with West Virginia Rule of Criminal
Procedure 4.
   (D)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education, agency or
individual, shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7) (Prior Code, § 343.07)
§ 72.142 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W. Va. Code § 17C-
12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult must use by
exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code § 17C-15-26(e).
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any
direction any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or
unloading passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the
passenger van when there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning
signal lights or when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution
flag and assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may not proceed until he or she is signaled
by the passenger van driver to proceed, the passenger van flashing signal
lights are no longer actuated, or the passenger resumes motion. This section
applies whenever the passenger van is loading or unloading children on any
street, highway, parking lot, private road or driveway; provided, that the
driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access highway need not stop upon meeting
or passing a passenger van which is on a different roadway or adjacent to the
highway and where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-12-7a)
§ 72.143 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 343.08)
COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 72.155 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (A)   Use of state route.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in W. Va. Code Chapter 17C, Article 17 upon any state route within the
municipality, except pursuant to special written permit issued by the
Commissioner of Highways, or upon any local truck route.
         (b)   Every such permit shall be carried in the vehicle or combination
of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any police
officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in division (C) of this section.
   (B)   Use of local streets.
      (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a size as specified in
§
72.157 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a
designated truck route within the municipality shall confine such deviation to
that required in order to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (C)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in division (A) of this section.
      (3)   (a)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round
trip, or for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief
in his or her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any
construction project.
         (b)   The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety.
         (c)   The Police Chief may require the posting of bond or other
security necessary to compensate for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   (a)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no through trucks - gross
weight 5 tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations
imposed by this section.
         (b)   No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 347.01)
§ 72.156 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (B)   A motor home, travel trailer or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
72.157, if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-3) (Prior Code, § 347.02)
§ 72.157 MAXIMUM HEIGHT, WIDTH AND LENGTH.
   (A)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (B)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division (C) or in division (D)
of this section, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of
more than two units and no combination of vehicles including any load thereon
shall have an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of
55 feet except as provided in W. Va. Code § 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise
provided in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W. Va. Code §
17C-17-5. The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may
not consist of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (D)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers of 65 feet.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of
this section, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own
motion or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle
length not to exceed 70 feet.
   (F)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semitrailer combinations and
truck tractor-semitrailer- trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the West Virginia Commissioner
of Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semitrailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length except where semitrailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the
semitrailer, such semitrailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semitrailer or trailer operating in a
truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-4)
   (G)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code
Chapter 17C, Article 17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width
of 102 inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a
minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (H)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation may operate on any street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-2)
(Prior Code, § 347.03)
§ 72.158 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (B)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-6) (Prior Code, § 347.04)
§ 72.159 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When one vehicle is towing another the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (B)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-17-7) (Prior Code, § 347.05)
MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC RULES
§ 72.170 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-2) (Prior Code, § 349.02)
§ 72.171 DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-4) (Prior Code, § 349.03)
§ 72.172 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons including the operator shall ride or be permitted
by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor vehicle
while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways of this
municipality; provided, however, that the limitation of this section shall not
apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the
occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-5) (Prior Code, § 349.04)
§ 72.173 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride nor shall the operator permit any passenger to ride
on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being operated
on the streets or highways of this municipality. (W. Va. Code § 17C-14-6)
(Prior Code, § 349.05)
§ 72.174 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business may not follow
any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm or other
emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm or other emergency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9) (Prior Code, § 349.06)
§ 72.175 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (A)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (B)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 miles per hour on any nondivided highway or
street and 25 miles per hour on any divided highway depending on road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
§ 72.176 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-10) (Prior Code, § 349.07)
§ 72.177 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. Have the same meaning as set
forth in W. Va. Code § 30-6-4.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or nonlaw
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery or other location
at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held, including a
funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (B)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (B)(3) of this section, shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by
a funeral escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         (a)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         (b)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         (c)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (C)   Driving in procession. All vehicles comprising a funeral procession
shall follow the preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is
practical and safe. Any ordinance, law or rule stating that motor vehicles
shall be operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (D)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury or property damage
suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession may
not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment or their
employees or agents unless the death, personal injury or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment or their employees or agents.
   (E)   Equipment. All nonlaw enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral
lead vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing
lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens. Flashing amber or purple
lights may be used when such vehicles are used in a funeral procession.
(W. Va. Code Article Chapter 17C, Article 23) (Prior Code, § 349.08)
§ 72.178 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 349.09)
§ 72.179 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 349.10)
§ 72.180 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING OR JUMPING ONTO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designated or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 349.11)
§ 72.181 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
(Prior Code, § 349.12)
§ 72.182 TAKING, INJURING OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without
consent of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner
of his or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the
vehicle.
      (2)   The consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving
shall not in any case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on
a previous occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a
different person.
      (3)   Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in any such unauthorized taking or driving, shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-4)
   (B)   (1)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
      (2)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-8-6)
(Prior Code, § 349.13)
§ 72.183 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN OR CURB.
   (A)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 349.14)
§ 72.184 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine or both.
(Prior Code, § 349.15)
§ 72.185 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
(Prior Code, § 349.16)
§ 72.186 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 349.17)
§ 72.187 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along or across a street or highway, or any part
thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 349.18)
§ 72.188 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand or park any motor vehicle on any street
or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free flow of
motor vehicle traffic except in compliance with a lawful order of a police
officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal or marking.
(Prior Code, § 349.19)
§ 72.189 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code Article 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such Article unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code Article 17D-2A
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
§ 72.190 LITTERING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped or thrown, any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state or within 100 feet of
the waters of this state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, LITTER means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof, or any other offensive or unsightly matter,
but not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging,
sawmilling, farming or manufacturing.
   (C)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it can not be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-14)
§ 72.191 ELECTRONICALLY DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SMARTWATCH. A wearable computer that provides a local touchscreen for
daily use, associated with applications, and connected to a cellular or Wi-Fi
network.
      STAND-ALONE ELECTRONIC DEVICE. A portable device other than a wireless
telecommunications device which stores audio or video data files to be
retrieved on demand by a user.
      UTILITY SERVICES. Includes electric, natural gas, water, wastewater,
cable, telephone or telecommunications services, or the repair, location,
relocation, improvement, or maintenance of utility poles, transmission
structures, pipes, wires, fibers, cables, easements, rights-of-way or
associated infrastructure.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
         (a)   One of the following portable devices:
            1.   A cellular telephone;
            2.   A portable telephone;
            3.   A text-messaging device;
            4.   A personal digital assistant;
            5.   A stand-alone computer including, but not limited to, a
tablet, laptop or notebook computer;
            6.   A handheld global positioning system receiver;
            7.   A device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image or visual image; or
            8.   Any substantially similar portable wireless device that is
used to initiate or receive communication, information or data.
         (b)   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a
smartwatch, any type of radio including, but not limited to, radios used by
first responders or school bus operators; citizens band radio or radio hybrid;
commercial two-way radio communication device or its functional equivalent,
subscription-based emergency communication device; prescribed medical device;
amateur or ham radio device, or any built-in vehicle equipment for security,
navigation, communications or remote diagnostics.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use a wireless telecommunications device without the
use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate or initiate the feature or
function with a single touch or single swipe.
   (B)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device or two-way radio while loading or unloading
passengers.
   (C)   The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless
telecommunications device while the bus is in motion nor while stationary in
traffic nor at a traffic control signal, unless that device is being used in a
similar manner as a two-way radio to allow live communication between the
driver and school officials or public safety officials.
   (D)   A driver shall exercise due care in operating a motor vehicle on the
highways of this state and shall not engage in any actions involving any stand-
alone electronic device or wireless telecommunications device that distracts
such driver from the safe operation of the vehicle.
   (E)   While operating a motor vehicle on any street, highway or property
open to the public for vehicular traffic in this state, no driver may:
      (1)   Physically hold or support, with any part of his or her body, a
wireless communication device or stand-alone electronic device; provided, that
such prohibition shall not apply to the wearing of a smartwatch;
      (2)   Write, send or read any text-based communication including, but not
limited to, a text message, instant message, e-mail or social media interaction
on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic device;
provided, that such prohibition shall not apply to a voice-operated or hands-
free communication feature which is automatically converted by such device to
be sent as a message in a written form;
      (3)   Make any communication involving a wireless telecommunications
device, including a phone call, voice message or one-way voice communication;
provided, that, such prohibition shall not apply to a voice operated or hands-
free communication feature or function;
      (4)   Engage in any form of electronic data retrieval or electronic data
communication on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic
device;
      (5)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into any website, search
engine or application on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone
electronic device;
      (6)   Watch a video or movie on a wireless telecommunications device or
standalone electronic device other than watching data related to the navigation
of such vehicle;
      (7)   Record, post, send or broadcast video, including a video conference
on a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone electronic device;
provided, that such prohibition does not apply to electronic devices used for
the sole purpose of continuously recording or broadcasting video within or
outside of the motor vehicle; or
      (8)   Actively play any game on a wireless telecommunications device or
stand-alone electronic device.
   (F)   While operating a commercial motor vehicle on any highway of this
state, no driver may:
      (1)   Use more than a single button on a wireless telecommunications
device to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      (2)   Reach for a wireless telecommunications device or stand-alone
electronic device in such a manner that requires the driver to:
         (a)   No longer be in a seated driving position; or
         (b)   No longer be properly restrained by a safety belt.
   (G)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   It is a misdemeanor for any driver to violate any of the provisions of
this section. Every driver convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of
the provisions of this section shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   For a first conviction with no prior conviction of and no plea of
no contest accepted to a charge of violating this section within the previous
24-month period, as measured from the date of any prior conviction or plea, a
fine of not more than $100;
      (2)   For a second conviction within a 24-month period, as measured from
the date of any prior conviction or plea, a fine of not more than $200;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent conviction within a 24-month period, as
measured from the date of any prior conviction or plea:
         (a)   A fine of not more than $350;
         (b)   Three points on the driver’s record maintained by the Division
of Motor Vehicles; and
         (c)   At the court’s discretion, suspension of the driver’s license
for a period of 90 days;
      (4)   Any driver who causes physical harm to property as the proximate
result of committing a violation of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable up to 30 days in jail or a fine not less than $100 and not more than
$500;
      (5)   Any driver who causes serious physical harm to another person as
the proximate result of committing a violation of this section shall be
punished in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15(h)(5); and
      (6)   Any driver who causes the death of another as the proximate result
of committing a violation of this section is guilty of negligent homicide and
shall be punished in accordance with W. Va. Code § 17C-5-1.
   (I)   The Department of Transportation shall cause to be erected signs upon
any highway entering the state on which a welcome to West Virginia sign is
posted, and any other highway where the Division of Highways deems appropriate,
posted at a distance of not more than one mile from each border crossing, each
sign to bear an inscription clearly communicating to motorists entering the
state that texting, or the use of a wireless communication device without
hands-free equipment, is illegal within this state.
   (J)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
   (K)   No policy providing liability coverage for personal lines insurance
shall contain a provision which may be used to deny coverage or exclude payment
of any legal damages recoverable by law for injuries proximately caused by a
violation of this section, as long as such amounts are within the coverage
limits of the insured.
   (L)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Drivers reporting to state, county or local authorities a traffic
accident, medical emergency, fire, an actual or potential criminal or
delinquent act, or a road condition that causes an immediate and serious
traffic or safety hazard;
      (2)   An employee or contractor of a utility services provider acting
within the scope of his or her employment while responding to a utility
emergency;
      (3)   A driver operating a commercial vehicle while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (4)   A law enforcement officer, firefighter, emergency medical services
personnel, ambulance driver, or other similarly employed public safety first
responder during the performance of his or her official duties; or
      (5)   While in a motor vehicle that is lawfully parked.
   (M)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-
3a or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor vehicles
prescribed either by the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17E-1-1 et seq. or by
federal law or rule.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15)
LICENSING
§ 72.205 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W. Va. Code Chapter 17-A which is not registered or for which
a certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided, that in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further that he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-1) (Prior Code, § 351.01)
§ 72.206 REGISTRATION CARD.
   (A)   Every such registration card shall at all times be carried in the
vehicle to which it refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in
control of such vehicle who shall display the same upon demand of a police
officer or any officer or employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   Carrying and displaying an electronic or mobile registration card
issued by the Division satisfies the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-13) (Prior Code, § 351.02)
§ 72.207 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (B)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) of this section, an
owner of a motor vehicle with a Class G registration as defined in W. Va. Code
§ 17A-10-1 may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-3-15) (Prior Code, § 351.03)
§ 72.208 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (A)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this traffic code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Chapter 17-A.
   (B)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department whichever is earlier; provided, that no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of this
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the State Police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-2) (Prior Code, § 351.04)
§ 72.209 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-9-3) (Prior Code, § 351.05)
§ 72.210 DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, may
drive a motor vehicle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, used by the public generally unless the person has a valid
driver’s license issued pursuant to the West Virginia Code for the type or
class of vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle pursuant to the West
Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted in the manner provided
in the West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, is not
required to obtain any other license to exercise the privilege by a county,
municipality or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (B)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, may drive a
motorcycle on a street or highway in this municipality or on a subdivision
street, used by the public generally unless the person has a valid motorcycle
license, a valid license which has been endorsed under W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1 et
seq. for motorcycle operation, or has a valid motorcycle instruction permit.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1) (Prior Code, § 351.06)
§ 72.211 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
72.210:
   (A)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of this
state, may operate a motor vehicle in this state only as a noncommercial driver
for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (C)   (1)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the
person’s immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in
the person’s home state or country and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (B) of this section, unless the
Commissioner determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the
same privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in
this state only as a noncommercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place or places of business or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade, profession
or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a resident of the
State of West Virginia over the age of 18 years of age, the resident would not
be required under the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 17 to obtain a Class A,
B, C or D driver’s license.
      (2)   However, this division (C) shall not exempt any person who is
required to obtain a West Virginia driver’s license in accordance with the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 17B-2-1a;
   (D)   A nonresident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of P.L. No. 99-570
and unless the Commissioner determines the person’s home state or country does
not extend the same privilege to a resident of this state may operate a motor
vehicle in this state either as a commercial driver subject to the age limits
applicable to commercial driver in this state, or as a noncommercial driver
subject to the limitations imposed on nonresident drivers in divisions (B) and
(C) of this section; or
   (E)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in an
accredited school, college or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (B) and (C) of this section may operate motor vehicle
in this state only as noncommercial driver; provided, that the state of which
the person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of this
state.
      (2)   This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college or university or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-2) (Prior Code, § 351.07)
§ 72.212 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles. However,
no person charged with violating this section shall be convicted if such person
produces in court or the office of the arresting officer a driver’s license
theretofore issued to such person and valid at the time of such person’s
arrest.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-2-9) (Prior Code, § 351.08)
§ 72.213 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (A)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification;
   (B)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
nonoperator’s identification to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (C)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or nonoperator’s identification not issued to him or her;
   (D)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification or knowingly make a
false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
   (E)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or nonoperator’s identification issued to him or her; or
   (F)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
traffic code or W. Va. Code Chapter 17.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-1) (Prior Code, § 351.09)
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous driving, see §
72.020
   Reckless driving, see §
72.021
§ 72.214 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of
this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been
lawfully suspended or revoked.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-3) (Prior Code, § 351.10)
§ 72.215 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by
any person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17B-4-4) (Prior Code, § 351.11)
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
70.99 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
72.001 after being involved in a crash resulting in physical injury but not
death to any person shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or fined not
more than $1,000 or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-4-1) (Prior Code, § 331.99)
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates §
72.021 shall for a first offense be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500,
or imprisoned not less than five nor more than 30 days; for a second or
subsequent offense shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $1,000, or
imprisoned not less than ten nor more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C)(1) of this section,
any person convicted of a violation of §
72.021 who in doing so proximately causes another to suffer serious bodily
injury shall be confined in jail not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
or fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000 or both.
      (3)   For purposes of division (C)(2) of this section, SERIOUS BODILY
INJURY means bodily injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which
causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health or
prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
(Prior Code, § 333.99)
   (D)   (1)   General penalty for §§
72.050 through
72.055. Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.050 through
72.055 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   Speeding.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (D)(2), any person
who violates the provisions of §
72.050 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$500; provided, that if such third or subsequent conviction is based upon a
violation of the provisions of §
72.050 where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 miles per hour or
more, then the person shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
that if such conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
72.050(B)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 miles per hour
or more in the presence of one or more children, then the person shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both; provided, that if the signage required by §
72.050(B)(1) is not present in the school zone at the time of the violation,
then any person who violates said provision shall be fined not more than $25.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-1)
      (3)   Street racing. Whoever violates §
72.053 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100; for a second
offense fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both. For the purposes of this
section, a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure such person’s
appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent
to a final conviction. If at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
72.053 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in this state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if such person be a
nonresident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
72.214 shall be applicable.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-8)
      (4)   Waste service vehicles. Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.055 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $300. If the person
convicted of violating §
72.055 exceeded the speed limit by 15 miles per hour or more or caused serious
injury or death to a service vehicle worker, then the person shall be fined not
less than $300 nor more than $1,000 or confined in jail for not more than 30
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-6-11)
(Prior Code, § 335.99)
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.070 through
72.081 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 337.99)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.095 through
72.104 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 339.99)
   (G)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.115 through
72.120 shall be fined not more than $200; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $300; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-9-6)
(Prior Code, § 341.99)
   (H)   (1)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever
violates §
72.140 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
      (2)   Stopping for school bus. Any driver acting in violation of §
72.141(A) for a first offense, shall be fined not less than $500 or more than
$1,000, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
Upon conviction of a second violation of §
72.141(A), the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500,
or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined. Upon
conviction of a third or subsequent violation of §
72.141(A), the driver shall be fined $2,000 and confined not less than 48 hours
in jail but not more than 30 days.
      (3)   Stopping for passenger van. Any driver acting in violation of §
72.142(B) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §
72.142(B) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this traffic code to the contrary.
(Prior Code, § 343.99)
   (I)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.170 through
72.191 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who violates §
72.175 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both fined and imprisoned.
         (b)   If violation of §
72.175 results in property damage in addition to any other penalty imposed,
driving privileges of the persons causing the property damage shall be
suspended for 90 days.
         (c)   If violation of §
72.175 results in injury to another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the injury shall be
suspended for six months.
         (d)   If violation of §
72.175 results in the death of another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the death shall be
suspended for two years.
         (e)   Any person who violates §
72.175 and while doing so also violates §
72.020 shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-9a)
      (3)   Whoever violates §
72.182 shall, for a first offense, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17A-11-1)
      (4)   Whoever violates §
72.189 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17D-2A-9)
      (5)   (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
72.191 is guilty of a traffic offense and, shall for a first offense be fined
$100; for a second offense be fined $200: and for a third or subsequent offense
be fined $300. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a violation
of §
72.191.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the
contrary, points may not be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of §
72.191, except for the third and subsequent convictions of the offense, for
which three points shall be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles.
         (c)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or
highway while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense. Driving or
operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while using a cell
phone or other electronic communication device without hands-free equipment
shall be enforced as a secondary offense until July 1, 2013 when it shall be
enforced as a primary offense for purposes of citation.
         (d)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
authorize seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement
agency.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-15)
(Prior Code, § 349.99)
   (J)   Any person who drives or operates a motor vehicle upon a public
highway within the municipality at a time when his or her privilege to do so
has been lawfully suspended or revoked by the state or any other jurisdiction
is in violation of §
72.214 and shall be subject to the following penalties:
 
Penalties                  Fine
First offense misdemeanor  $100 fine to $250 fine
Second offense misdemeanor $250 fine to $500 fine
 
(Prior Code, § 351.99)
(Ord. passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 73: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
73.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment;
exceptions
   
73.02   When lighted lights required
   
73.03   Measurement of distances and heights
   
73.04   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
73.05   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
73.06   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
73.07   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
73.08   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
73.09   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
73.10   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
73.11   Cowl, fender and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
73.12   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
73.13   Use of headlight beams
   
73.14   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
73.15   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
73.16   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
73.17   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
73.18   Special restrictions on lights
   
73.19   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
73.20   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds
   
73.21   Horn, siren and theft alarm signal
   
73.22   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas or noise
   
73.23   Rear-view mirror
   
73.24   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
73.25   Tire equipment restrictions
   
73.26   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
73.27   Video screens and monitors, television receiver in driver’s view
prohibited
   
73.28   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles
and mopeds
   
73.29   Certification labels on mopeds
   
73.30   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and booster
seats
   
73.31   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
73.32   Alteration of suspension system
   
73.33   Sun screening devices
   
73.34   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this chapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required under this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers or
farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor equipped
with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
73.02 display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
73.02.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-1) (Prior Code, § 345.01)
§ 73.02 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped operated upon a street or highway within this municipality at any time
from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain or other unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light
to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or highway at
a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating
devices as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
73.07(C). Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
Lighted lamps and other lighting devices that consist of multiple light-
emitting diodes (LEDs) or other illuminating components that function as a
single lighting unit are deemed to be functional so long as at least 66% of the
LEDs or other illuminating components are functional; provided, that the
lighted lamps or lighting devices must still project sufficient illumination to
satisfy all other requirements contained in this chapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-2) (Prior Code, § 345.02)
§ 73.03 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
73.02 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (B)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to the
level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-3) (Prior Code, § 345.03)
§ 73.04 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this chapter.
   (C)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches to
be measured as set forth in §
73.03.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-4) (Prior Code, § 345.04)
§ 73.05 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (B)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches to be measured as set forth in §
73.03(B).
   (C)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-5) (Prior Code, § 345.05)
§ 73.06 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
73.02, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the entire area
is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-14) (Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 73.07 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is sufficient light
to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street
or highway no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements. At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped.
   (C)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-15) (Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 73.08 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred to
in §
73.01(C) not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
73.02 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-16) (Prior Code, § 345.08)
§ 73.09 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, a lamp or lighting device meets the
requirements specified below so long as any portion of the illuminating surface
of the lamp or lighting device is within the specified range.
   (B)   All lamps and lighting devices covered in this section may be
installed so that the entire lamp or lighting device exceeds 42 inches above
the level surface upon which the vehicle stands so long as such lamps or
lighting devices are either covered or dimmable.
      (1)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this division (B)(1).
      (2)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
      (3)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary passing lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this chapter.
      (5)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle
may be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device
comprised of multiple lamps; provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or
driven upon any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting
device shall be turned off while the vehicle is being operated on any road or
highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-17) (Prior Code, § 345.09)
§ 73.10 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped and when required under this traffic
code shall be equipped with the following signal lamps or devices.
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp.
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (B)   (1)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear.
      (2)   When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal lamps,
such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working condition.
No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling light.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
73.02.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-18) (Prior Code, § 345.10)
§ 73.11 COWL, FENDER AND BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (C)   All motor vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of at least two
functioning back-up lamps either separately or in combination with other lamps,
unless the vehicle was originally equipped with one lamp. Any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses
used for the transportation of school children in this municipality, whether
owned and operated by a county board of education or privately owned and
operated under contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped
with at least two back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white
lens or reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of
the bus for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the
county board of education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination
intensity instead of 32 candlepower.
   (D)   (1)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this chapter.
      (2)   The lamps used to display such warning to the front shall be
mounted at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and
shall display simultaneously flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of
color between white and amber.
      (3)   The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted
at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (E)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering or picking up mail along the route.
   (F)   (1)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this chapter.
      (2)   The lamps or flashing lights used to display such warning to the
front shall be mounted at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable and shall display simultaneously either illuminating or flashing
purple lights.
      (3)   The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted
at the same level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing or illuminated purple lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-19) (Prior Code, § 345.11)
§ 73.12 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading.
   (B)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
   (C)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle or moped, registered in the State after January 1, 1952, which has
multiple-beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
head lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted.
      (2)   Such indicator shall be so designed and located that when lighted
it will be readily visible without glare to the driver of the vehicle so
equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-20) (Prior Code, § 345.12)
§ 73.13 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
73.02, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle
within 500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite
beam, so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the
oncoming driver.
      (2)   The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in
§
73.12(B) shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road contour
and loading.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this traffic
code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
73.12(A).
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-21) (Prior Code, § 345.13)
§ 73.14 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952 in lieu
of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations.
   (A)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of 25 feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (B)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-22) (Prior Code, § 345.14)
§ 73.15 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type but in either event shall
comply with the requirements and limitations as follows.
   (A)   Every head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
miles per hour and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated
at a speed of 25 or more miles per hour.
   (B)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a
multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps the upper beam shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the limitations set
forth in §
73.12(A) and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements applicable to a
lowermost distribution of light as set forth in §
73.12(B).
   (C)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is equipped with a
single-beam lamp or lamps such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when the
vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it comes.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, a motorcycle may be
equipped with, and an operator of a motorcycle may use, the following auxiliary
lighting:
         (a)   Amber and white illumination;
         (b)   Standard bulb running lights; or
         (c)   Light-emitting diode pods and strips.
      (2)   Lighting under this division (D) shall be:
         (a)   Nonblinking;
         (b)   Nonflashing;
         (c)   Nonoscillating; and
         (d)   Directed toward the engine and the drive train of the motorcycle
to prevent interference with the driver’s operation of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-23) (Prior Code, § 345.15)
§ 73.16 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
73.02 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §
73.12, or §
73.14, provided that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of 20
miles per hour.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-24) (Prior Code, § 345.16)
§ 73.17 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (A)   At all times specified in §
73.02 at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-25) (Prior Code, § 345.17)
§ 73.18 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person may drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device on the vehicle displaying other than a white or amber
light visible from directly in front of the center of the vehicle except as
authorized by division (D) below.
   (C)   Except as authorized in divisions (D) and (G) below and §
73.11, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any
vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means
of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may
have blinking or flashing lights.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this traffic code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated.
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each police department.
      (2)   (a)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by § 345.11,
red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
            1.   Ambulances;
            2.   Fire-fighting vehicles;
            3.   Hazardous material response vehicles;
            4.   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
            5.   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a fire department;
            6.   School buses;
            7.   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code §§ 17A-10-1 et
seq. of those firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have the
lights;
            8.   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads
not operating out of a fire department;
            9.   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
            10.   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active
members of West Virginia fire departments, ambulance services or duly chartered
rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have the lights;
            11.   West Virginia Department of Agriculture emergency response
vehicles;
            12.   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security for emergency response or emergency management by the
Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional Facility Authority,
Division of Juvenile Services and Division of Homeland Security and Emergency
Management;
            13.   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency
management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence; and
            14.   Emergency management and operations vehicles operated by
airports.
         (b)   Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle may be
operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency requiring
the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services or
chartered rescue squads.
      (3)   The use of red flashing warning lights is authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (b)   Authorization for all fire department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (c)   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (d)   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a fire department shall be designated by the squad chief, the sheriff of the
county of residence and the Department of Health;
         (e)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12;
         (f)   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their fire chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         (g)   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and the sheriff of
the county of residence;
         (h)   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence and
the Department of Health;
         (i)   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a West Virginia fire department, ambulance
services or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their
respective chiefs;
         (j)   Authorization for State Department of Agriculture emergency
response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner of the Department of
Agriculture;
         (k)   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Homeland Security;
         (l)   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Homeland Security and the county commission of the county of residence; and
         (m)   Authorization for emergency management and operations vehicles
operated by airports shall be designated by the airport director and the
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Chapter 17C and § 17C-15-27;
         (b)   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized
in §
73.11;
         (c)   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         (d)   Flag car services;
         (e)   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         (f)   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         (g)   Snow removal equipment;
         (h)   School buses; and
         (i)   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         (a)   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence;
         (b)   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways;
         (c)   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code § 17C-14-12; and
         (d)   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard for automotive fire
apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) on
July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission by legislative rule (87
C.S.R. §§ 1 et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
   (E)   (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any
vehicle belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving
funding from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of
providing general public transportation or hauling solid waste may be equipped
with a white flashing strobotron warning light.
      (2)   This strobe light may be installed on the roof of a school bus, a
public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling solid waste not to exceed
one-third the body length forward from the rear of the roof edge. The light
shall have a single, clear lens emitting light 360 degrees around its vertical
axis and may not extend above the roof more than six and one-half inches. A
manual switch and a pilot light must be included to indicate the light is in
operation.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any waste
service vehicle as defined in W. Va. Code Chapter 17C-6-11 may be equipped with
yellow or amber flashing warning lights.
   (G)   It is unlawful for flashing warning lights of an unauthorized color to
be installed or used on a vehicle other than as specified in this section,
except that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red
warning lights.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-26) (Prior Code, § 345.18)
§ 73.19 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (A)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or
moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer hereinafter sold in
this state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         (b)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped and any semitrailer
of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   (a)   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading on a surface free from snow, ice or loose material.
         (b)   The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in
conformance with the foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or
by spring action or by equivalent means.
         (c)   Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or other
source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation system or
other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes from being
applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements
         (d)   The parking brakes shall be so designed that when once applied
they shall remain applied with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of
any source of energy or leakage of any kind.
         (e)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake
shoe anchors and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated
with the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes.
         (f)   If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (B)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to these distances:
 
                           Feet to Stop from 20 Miles Deceleration in Feet per
                           per Hour                   Second
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on  30                         14
all wheels
 
                           Feet to Stop from 20 Miles Deceleration in Feet per
                            per Hour                   Second
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes  40                         10.7
on all wheels
 
   (C)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-31) (Prior Code, § 345.19)
§ 73.20 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has disapproved
the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-32) (Prior Code, § 345.20)
§ 73.21 HORN, SIREN AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall
be equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to
insure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (C)   (1)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle
be equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it
cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
      (2)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from
a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the Department
of Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the driver of
such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-33) (Prior Code, § 345.21)
§ 73.22 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS OR NOISE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a
muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or
unusual noise.
      (2)   Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof.
      (3)   No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon
a motor vehicle on a street or highway.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-34) (Prior Code, § 345.22)
§ 73.23 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-35) (Prior Code, § 345.23)
§ 73.24 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings or side or rear
windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the street
or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (B)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (C)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36) (Prior Code, § 345.24)
§ 73.25 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (B)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (C)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided that in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a highway, other than
school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are operational with a
recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square inch.
   (D)   Council may in its discretion issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a highway
would otherwise be prohibited under this traffic code.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-37) (Prior Code, § 345.25)
§ 73.26 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches high.
   (B)   Every vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-41) (Prior Code, § 345.27)
§ 73.27 VIDEO SCREENS AND MONITORS, TELEVISION RECEIVER IN DRIVER’S VIEW
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No motor vehicle may be operated on a street or highway when equipped
with a television receiver, video monitor, television or video screen unless
the receiver, screen or monitor is configured so that the moving images are not
in view of the operator while the vehicle is in motion, or if falls within one
or more of the categories set forth in divisions (B) or (C) of this section.
   (B)   This prohibition does not apply to the following equipment installed
in a vehicle:
      (1)   A visual display if it does not show video or television broadcast
images in view of the operator while the motor vehicle is in motion;
      (2)   A global positioning device;
      (3)   A mapping display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement a driver’s view of
vehicle occupants; or
      (6)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering information.
   (C)   A television receiver, video monitor, television or video screen or
other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal is not prohibited if the equipment has an interlock device that, when
the motor vehicle is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a
visual display described in divisions (B)(1) to (B)(6) of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-42) (Prior Code, § 345.28)
§ 73.28 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES
AND MOPEDS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or
motor-driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant
eyeglasses (excluding contact lenses), or eyegoggles or face shield that
complies with the performance specifications established by the American
National Standards Institute for Head, Eye and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1.
      (2)   In addition, if any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped is
equipped with a windshield or windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be
constructed of safety, shatter-resistant material that complies with the
performance specifications established by Department of Transportation Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205 and American National Standards
Institute, Safety Glazing Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land
Highways, Standard Z 26.1.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (D)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle.
      (1)   No operator shall carry any other person nor shall any other person
ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to carry more than one
person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the operator upon the
permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons, or upon another
seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the operator’s seat and
equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the passenger or in a
sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall ride sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as
many passengers as there are seats and footrests to accommodate those
passengers. Additional passengers may be carried in a factory produced side car
provided that there is one passenger per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar
shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (E)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
   (F)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AUTOCYCLE. A fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that is equipped
with safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror, automotive seating,
a steering wheel and equipment otherwise required on a motorcycle and which has
no more than three wheels in contact with the roadway at any one time.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-1-69)
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
person with a valid driver’s license who is operating a fully enclosed
autocycle, as defined in division (F)(1) of this section, is exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-44)
(Prior Code, § 345.29)
§ 73.29 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in this municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of manufacturer;
   (B)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (C)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (D)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (E)   Vehicle identification number;
   (F)   Classification type; and
   (G)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-45) (Prior Code, § 345.30)
§ 73.30 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND BOOSTER
SEATS.
   (A)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $20.
   (C)   A violation of this section does not by virtue of the violation
constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative
negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (D)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other
provisions or applications of this section and to this end the divisions of
this section are declared to be severable.
   (E)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46) (Prior Code, § 345.31)
§ 73.31 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va.
Code Chapter 17C, Article 16 shall operate or permit to be operated such
vehicle without having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of
inspection and approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized
person as therein designated.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-16-9) (Prior Code, § 345.32)
§ 73.32 ALTERATION OF SUSPENSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that its
bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper
bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits specified
herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and rear bumper
height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or
less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31 inches. In the
absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been altered or
modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail. If
a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least three inches in
vertical width, centered on the centerline of the motor vehicle and not less
than the width of the wheel track distance. The provisions of this division (A)
do not apply to motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds. For the purpose of this division (A), the term GROSS VEHICLE
WEIGHT RATINGS means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings
established for that vehicle.
   (B)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle frame
shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided, that the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame. No vehicle shall be modified to
cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose
the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact
with the body under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system
may be disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system.
Modification of the front end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly
prohibited.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy
duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits the operation on a public
street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system
if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (E)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of this municipality.
   (F)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in division (H) of this section.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in division (H)
of this section.
   (H)   (1)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle make and model but
within the allowable limits of division (A) of this section or any motor
vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that
vehicle make and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to
vehicle frame but within the allowable limits of division (B) of this section
may be operated upon a public street or highway in this municipality, subject
to inspection under W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48; provided, that any motor vehicle
which has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the
bumper height for that vehicle make and model within the allowable limits of
division (A) of this section shall be exempt from the inspection requirements
hereunder and may be operated upon a public street or highway in this
municipality subject to provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 17C, Article 16.
      (2)   Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on crash report
forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the crash.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-48)
§ 73.33 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals are exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (C)   (1)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the
automotive safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located
at the immediate right and left of the driver shall be a nonreflective type
with reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not
less than 35%.
      (2)   The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may
have a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety
glazing materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a
reflectivity of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing
behind the driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (D)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (F)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (G)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes and
multipurpose passenger vehicles.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power, except
a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed either on
a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road operation.
      NONREFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather than
to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
§ 73.34 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Seatbelt Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings. The Town Council has determined that it is
necessary for it to adopt the state code regarding the use of seatbelts within
its jurisdiction.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given within the
West Virginia Code. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular and words in the singular number include the plural.
      TOWN. The Town of Oceana, West Virginia with administrative offices
located on Route 10, Cook Parkway, P.O. Box 190, Oceana, West Virginia 24870.
   (D)   Restrictions. Effective the May 15, 2005, a person may not operate a
passenger vehicle on a public street or highway of this state unless the
person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of age, and any passenger
in the front seat of such passenger vehicle is restrained by a safety belt
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards. For the purposes of
this section, the term PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor vehicle which is
designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including the driver, except
that such term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer, or any vehicle which
is not required on the date of the enactment of this section under a Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard to be equipped with a belt system. The provisions
of this section shall apply to all passenger vehicles manufactured after
January 1, 1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (E)   Exceptions. The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the
operation of the seatbelt regulations. The required use of safety belts as
provided herein does not apply to a duly appointed or contracted rural mail
carrier of the United States postal service who is actually making mail
deliveries or to a passenger or operator with a physically disabling condition
whose physical disability would prevent appropriate restraint in such safety
belt if the condition is duly certified by a physician who shall state the
nature of the disability as well as the reason such restraint is inappropriate.
The town shall rely upon the rules promulgated by the Division of Motor
Vehicles in order to establish a method to certify the physical disability and
to require use of an alternative restraint system where feasible or to waive
the requirement for the use of any restraint system.
   (F)   Violations.
      (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be
fined not more than $25. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a
violation of this section.
      (2)   Enforcement of this section shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when a driver of a passenger vehicle has been detained for
probable cause of violating another section of this code.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the
contrary, no points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (G)   Other provisions.
      (1)   (a)   A violation of this section is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided, that the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an
in camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a
safety belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of.
         (b)   Upon such a finding by the court, the court may then, in a jury
trial, by special interrogatory to the jury, determine:
            1.   That the injured party failed to wear a safety belt; and
            2.   That the failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure
to mitigate damages.
         (c)   The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery for
medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt shall not be presented to the jury. In all cases, the actual
computation of the dollar amount reduction shall be determined by the court.
      (2)   Commencing July 1, 1993, the Governor’s Highway Safety Program, in
cooperation with the Division of Public Safety (West Virginia state police) and
any other state departments or agencies and with county and municipal law
enforcement agencies, shall initiate and conduct an educational program
designed to encourage compliance with safety belt usage laws. This program
shall be focused on the effectiveness of safety belts, the monetary savings and
the other benefits to the public from usage of safety belts and the
requirements and penalties specified in the West Virginia Code. The Town
Council authorizes the town’s Police Department to participate in any
educational programs designed to encourage compliance with safety belt usage
laws.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to abrogate or
alter the provisions of W. Va. Code § 17C-15-46 relating to the mandatory use
of child passenger safety devices.
(Ord. passed 4-14-2005)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, any
person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (B)   Brakes. Any person violating §§
73.19 or
73.20 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-6)
   (C)   Sunscreening devices. Whoever violates §
73.33 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-36a)
   (D)   Safety belts. Any person who violates the provisions of §
73.34 shall be fined not more than $25. No court costs or other fees shall be
assessed for a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-15-49)
(Prior Code, § 345.99)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING
Section
   
74.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highways
   
74.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
74.03   Prohibited stopping, standing or parking places
   
74.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
74.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
74.06   Accessible parking
   
74.07   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
74.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
74.09   Truck loading zones
   
74.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
74.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
74.12   Continuous parking restricted
   
74.13   Weight limit of vehicles allowed to park on public street
   
74.14   Number of vehicles parked on street
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence district
no person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or highway when
it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of the
street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the street or
highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or street.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-1) (Prior Code, § 361.01)
§ 74.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
74.01, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-2) (Prior Code, § 361.02)
§ 74.03 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (12)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (13)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (14)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (15)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (16)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (17)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (18)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (19)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking spaces; and
      (20)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-3) (Prior Code, § 361.03)
§ 74.04 VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park or leave standing unattended any
vehicle on a private road or driveway or on private property without having
express or implied permission from the owner, tenant or lessee of such land.
The owner, tenant or lessee of such private road or driveway or private
property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked or left standing
unattended on his or her private road, driveway or private property as above
prohibited without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle, nor shall
he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done to such
vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant or lessee of such private road
or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing the
removal of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the
persons removing such vehicle for paying all removal costs. Any person who
removes any vehicle under the provisions of this section shall notify the state
police of such action, and, in addition notify the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-14-13) (Prior Code, § 361.04)
§ 74.05 MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (B)   This section does not apply to streets or parts thereof where angle
parking is lawfully permitted. However, no angle parking shall be permitted on
a State or Federal-aid route unless approved by the State Commissioner of
Highways.
   (C)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
(Prior Code, § 361.05)
§ 74.06 ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSIBLE PARKING. Formerly known as HANDICAPPED PARKING is the present
phrase consistent with language within the American with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. A facility whose operations affect commerce and
which are intended for nonresidential use by a private entity.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. A person who is a citizen of West Virginia and as
determined by a physician, allopath or osteopath chiropractor, advanced nurse
practitioner or physician’s assistant licensed to practice in West Virginia:
         (a)   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest;
         (b)   Cannot walk without the use of or assistance from a brace, cane,
crutch, prosthetic device, wheelchair, other assistive device or another
person;
         (c)   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the
person’s force (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
         (d)   Uses portable oxygen;
         (e)   Has a cardiac condition to such an extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV
according to standards established by the American Heart Association; or
         (f)   Is severely limited in his or her ability to walk because of an
arthritic, neurological or other orthopedic physical condition.
      PLACE(S) OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A facility or facilities operated by a
private entity whose operations affect commerce and fall within at least one of
the following categories:
         (a)   Inns, hotels, motels and other places of lodging;
         (b)   Restaurants, bars or other establishments serving food or drink;
         (c)   Motion picture houses, theaters, concert halls, stadiums or
other places of exhibition or entertainment;
         (d)   Auditoriums, convention centers, lecture halls or other places
of public gatherings;
         (e)   Bakeries, grocery stores, clothing stores, hardware stores,
shopping centers or other sales or rental establishments;
         (f)   Laundromats, dry cleaners, banks, barber and beauty shops,
travel agencies, shoe repair shops, funeral parlors, gas or service stations,
offices of accountants and attorneys, pharmacies, insurance offices, offices of
professional health care providers, hospitals or other service establishments;
         (g)   Terminals, depots or other stations used for public
transportation;
         (h)   Museums, libraries, galleries or other places of public display
or collection;
         (i)   Parks, zoos, amusement parks or other places of recreation;
         (j)   Public or private nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate
or post-graduate schools or other places of learning and day care centers,
senior citizen centers, homeless shelters, food banks, adoption agencies or
other social service establishments; and
         (k)   Gymnasiums, health spas, bowling alleys, golf courses or other
places of exercise or recreation.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL. Includes any law enforcement officer as
defined by W. Va. Code § 30-29-1, and private security guards, parking
personnel and other personnel authorized by a town, county or the state to
issue parking citations.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. State or local government or any department, agency,
special purpose district or other instrumentality of a state or local
government.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. All or any part of any buildings, structures, sites,
complexes, roads, parking lots or other real or personal property, including
the site where the facility is located.
      REGULAR REGISTRATION FEE. The standard registration fee for a vehicle of
the same class as the applicant’s vehicle.
      REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD (PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY). A two-sided,
hanger style placard measuring three inches by nine and one half inches, with
all of the following on each side:
         (a)   The international symbol of access, measuring at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, in white on a blue background for
permanent designations and in white on a red background for temporary
designations;
         (b)   An identification number measuring one inch in height;
         (c)   An expiration date in numbers measuring one inch in height for a
temporary placard; and
         (d)   The seal or other identifying symbol of the issuing authority.
      SPECIAL REGISTRATION PLATE. A registration plate that displays the
international symbol of access, as adopted by the Rehabilitation International
Organization in 1969 at its Eleventh World Congress on Rehabilitation of the
Disabled, in a color that contrasts with the background, in letters and numbers
the same size as those on the plate, and which may be used in lieu of a regular
registration plate.
   (B)   An accessible parking space should comply with the provisions of the
Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines, contained in 28
C.F.R. 36, Appendix A, § 4.6. In particular, the parking space should be a
minimum of eight feet wide with an adjacent eight-foot access aisle for vans
having side mounted hydraulic lifts or ramps or a five-foot access aisle for
standard vehicles. Access aisles should be marked using diagonal two- to four-
inch-wide stripes spaced every 12 or 24 inches apart along with the words “no
parking” in painted letters which are at least 12 inches in height. All
accessible parking spaces should have a signpost in front or adjacent to the
accessible parking space displaying the international symbol of access sign
mounted at a minimum of eight feet above the pavement or sidewalk and the top
of the sign. Lines or markings on the pavement or curbs for parking spaces and
access aisles may be in any color, although blue is the generally accepted
color for accessible parking.
   (C)   A vehicle displaying a disabled veterans special registration plate
issued pursuant to W. Va. Code § 17A-3-14d shall be recognized and accepted as
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (D)   A vehicle from any other state, United States territory or foreign
country displaying an officially issued special registration plate, placard or
decal bearing the international symbol of access shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this section, regardless of where the
plate, placard or decal is mounted or displayed on the vehicle.
   (E)   Stopping, standing or parking places marked with the international
symbol of access shall be designated in close proximity to all public entities
including state, county and municipal buildings and facilities, places of
public accommodation and commercial facilities. These parking places shall be
reserved solely for persons with a mobility impairment and disabled veterans at
all times.
   (F)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid, unexpired
special registration plate or removable windshield placard may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided, that this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of any political subdivision of this state is contrary to the
provisions of this section, the provisions of this section take precedence and
apply.
      (2)   The parking privileges provided for in this division (F) apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment. Any person who knowingly exercises, or
attempts to exercise, these privileges at a time when the vehicle is not being
used for the loading or unloading of a person with a mobility impairment and,
upon first conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in
addition to any other penalty, he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined
$300; and upon third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any
other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $500.
   (G)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand or park
a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned or marked for accessible parking
with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of access,
either by itself or with explanatory text. The signs may be mounted on a post
or a wall in front of the accessible parking space and instructions may appear
on the ground or pavement, but use of both methods is preferred. Accessible
parking spaces for vans having an eight-foot adjacent access aisle should be
designated as “van accessible” but may be used by any vehicle displaying a
valid special registration plate or removable windshield placard.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division (G) is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined $200; upon
second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent convictions
thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall
be fined $500.
   (H)   All signs that designate areas as “accessible parking” or that display
the international symbol of access shall also include the words “Up to $500
fine”.
   (I)   No person may stop, stand or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated or marked off as an access aisle adjacent to a van-accessible
parking space or regular accessible parking space. Any person, including a
driver of a vehicle displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special
registration plate, who violates the provisions of this division (I) is guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined $200; upon second
conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent convictions thereof,
in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined
$500.
   (J)   Parking enforcement personnel who otherwise enforce parking violations
may issue citations for violations of this section and shall reference the
number on the vehicle’s license plate, since the driver normally will not be
present.
   (K)   Law enforcement agencies may establish a program to use trained
volunteers to collect information necessary to issue citations to persons who
illegally park in designated accessible parking spaces. Any law enforcement
agency choosing to establish a program shall provide for workers’ compensation
and liability coverage. The volunteers shall photograph the illegally parked
vehicle and complete a form, to be developed by supervising law enforcement
agencies, that includes the vehicle’s license plate number, date, time and
location of the illegally parked vehicle. The photographs must show the vehicle
in the accessible space and a readable view of the license plate. Within the
discretion of the supervising law enforcement agency, the volunteers may issue
citations or the volunteers may submit the photographs of the illegally parked
vehicle and the form to the supervising law enforcement agency, who may issue a
citation, which includes the photographs and the form, to the owner of the
illegally parked vehicle. Volunteers shall be trained on the requirements for
citations for vehicles parked in marked, zoned or designated accessible parking
areas by the supervising law enforcement agency.
   (L)   Local authorities who adopt the basic enforcement provisions of this
section and issue their own local ordinances shall retain all fines and
associated late fees. These revenues shall be used first to fund the provisions
of division (K) of this section, if adopted by local authorities, or otherwise
shall go into the local authorities’ General Revenue Fund. Otherwise, any
moneys collected as fines shall be collected for and remitted to the state.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-13-6) (Prior Code, § 361.06)
§ 74.07 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which
is inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property for any period
of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher; or any motor
vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for any period of
time over five days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
unattended, discarded, deserted and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed
building, a licensed salvage yard or the actual possession of a demolisher;
provided, that a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, shall not be considered
an abandoned motor vehicle if:
         (a)   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
         (b)   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
         (c)   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor vehicle
being stored; and
         (d)   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the State of
West Virginia and not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles or
parts thereof for sale.
      ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses and motorcycles.
      PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association or
society and the plural as well as the singular.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-1)
   (B)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited. No person shall, within this
municipality, abandon a motor vehicle or major part thereof upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property,
or upon property owned or controlled by that person, unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or a business
licensed to do business in the state and not in the primary business of
offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
(W. Va. Code § 17-24A-2)
(Prior Code, § 361.07)
§ 74.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Displaying advertising;
   (C)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and
   (D)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency or used car sales
agency.
(Prior Code, § 361.08)
§ 74.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 361.09)
§ 74.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 361.11)
§ 74.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (A)   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle,
testimony that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully
parked as prohibited by the provisions of this traffic code, and further
testimony that the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the
license plate was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that
the vehicle which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant.
   (B)   A certified copy of registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles
shall be proof of such ownership.
(Prior Code, § 361.12)
§ 74.12 CONTINUOUS PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle on the streets of the town for more
than 48 consecutive hours.
(Prior Code, § 361.13)
§ 74.13 WEIGHT LIMIT OF VEHICLES ALLOWED TO PARK ON PUBLIC STREET.
   (A)   No truck or vehicle of greater than 18 feet in length shall park on
any street in the town in the manner designated as angle parking.
   (B)   Except for the purpose of loading and unloading, no truck, camper,
mobile home, trailer, tractor or other motorized vehicle larger than an
ordinary pick-up truck or of a gross weight in excess of 8,000 shall be parked
at any time upon any of the streets or alleys in the municipality.
   (C)   All commercial vehicles engaged in unloading and loading shall park
only in designated zones and areas.
   (D)   All owners of such vehicles shall be responsible for the parking
thereof and subject to the penalties herein described.
(Prior Code, § 361.14) (Ord. passed 2-7-1977)
§ 74.14 NUMBER OF VEHICLES PARKED ON STREET.
   No person shall park in excess of two vehicles, motorized or otherwise,
owned or controlled by the occupants of any dwelling unit, on the same street
in residential areas of the town.
(Prior Code, § 361.15)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for
which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $100; upon a
second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200;
and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. Whoever violates §
74.07 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both.
(Prior Code, § 361.99)
CHAPTER 75: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
75.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
75.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
75.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
75.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
75.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
75.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
75.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
75.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
75.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in §
71.17, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and
shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-1(a)) (Prior Code, § 371.01)
§ 75.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in
operation the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or
stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
75.03(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-2) (Prior Code, § 371.02)
§ 75.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-3) (Prior Code, § 371.03)
§ 75.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-4) (Prior Code, § 371.04)
§ 75.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-5) (Prior Code, § 371.05)
§ 75.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and upon
a street or highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-6) (Prior Code, § 371.06)
§ 75.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic control device or flagger.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-8) (Prior Code, § 371.07)
§ 75.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W. Va. Code § 5-15-5) (Prior Code, § 371.08)
§ 75.09 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
70.02 and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-1)
   (B)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Front, rear and side reflectors;
      (2)   A braking system that enables the operator to bring the device to a
controlled stop; and
      (3)   If operated at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a white light that sufficiently
illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (C)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (D)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10-7)
   (B)   An operator who violates a provision of §
75.09 shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a second or subsequent
offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 and not
greater than $100.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-10A-2)
(Prior Code, § 371.99)
CHAPTER 76: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
76.01   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
76.02   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
76.03   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
76.04   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
76.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
76.06   Carrying articles
   
76.07   Lights and reflector on bicycle; signal device; brakes
   
76.08   Reckless operation; control, course and speed
   
76.09   Riding on sidewalks prohibited
   
76.10   Bicycle helmets for children required
   
76.11   Electric bicycles
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-1) (Prior Code, § 373.01)
§ 76.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this traffic code, except as to special regulations in this chapter
and except as to those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature
can have no application.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-2) (Prior Code, § 373.02)
§ 76.03 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-3) (Prior Code, § 373.03)
§ 76.04 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-4) (Prior Code, § 373.04)
§ 76.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride in the lane marked for bicycle use or, if no lane is marked for
bicycle use, as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid any condition or potential
conflict including, but not limited to, a fixed or moving object, parked or
moving vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, turn lane, or
substandard-width lane, which makes it unsafe to continue along the right-hand
curb or edge or within a bicycle lane.
      (4)   For the purposes of this division (A), a SUBSTANDARD-WIDTH LANE is
a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another vehicle to travel safely
side by side within the lane.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way roadway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such
roadway as practicable.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-5) (Prior Code, § 373.05)
§ 76.06 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-6) (Prior Code, § 373.06)
§ 76.07 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; SIGNAL DEVICE; BRAKES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red
reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-7) (Prior Code, § 373.07)
§ 76.08 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
76.06; and
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Prior Code, § 373.08)
§ 76.09 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   Bicycles shall not be ridden on sidewalks within the town. For a first
offense bicycles shall be impounded and returned to the parents of juveniles.
For a second or subsequent offense the person concerned shall be fined in
accordance with §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 373.09)
§ 76.10 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of this state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-3)
   (B)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-4)
   (C)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in the definition in division (A) of
this section, which shall constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the
helmet conforms to the applicable safety standards.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-5)
   (D)   Civil actions. A violation of division (B) of this section is not
admissible as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative
negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be
admissible in mitigation of damages.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-6)
§ 76.11 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of an electric bicycle has all of the rights and
privileges and is subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle subject to this chapter, except as otherwise provided by this section
and except as to those provisions of this chapter which by their nature can
have no application.
   (B)   A person owning or operating an electric bicycle is not subject to the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 17A-1-1 et seq., 17B-1-1 et seq. or 17D-1-1 et
seq., relating to registration, title, driver’s license, and financial
responsibility requirements.
   (C)   A person may not tamper with or modify an electric bicycle so as to
change the motor-powered speed capability or motor engagement between pedal-
assist and throttle-assist types of engagement. If a motor on an electric
bicycle is modified so that a limit established in the definition of ELECTRIC
BICYCLES on § 70.02 is exceeded, that vehicle is no longer an electric bicycle.
The provisions of this division (C) are not applicable to a modified electric
bicycle operated solely and exclusively on a person’s own property.
   (D)   An electric bicycle must comply with the equipment and manufacturing
requirements for bicycles adopted by the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission (16 C.F.R. part 1512).
   (E)   The motor on an electric bicycle must disengage or cease to propel the
electric bicycle when the operator stops pedaling, or when the operator applies
the brakes and stops pedaling.
   (F)   A Class 3 electric bicycle must be equipped with a speedometer that
displays the speed the electric bicycle is traveling in miles per hour.
   (G)   Class 2 electric bicycles are permitted to use a throttle to propel
the bicycle.
   (H)   Electric bicycles operated on public roadways, public bicycle paths,
public multi-use paths, and other public rights-of-way where bicycles are
permitted to travel are subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Class 1 and Class 2 electric bicycles being used on roads and
trails where traditional, non-electronic bicycle use is allowed will be given
the same rights and privileges of a traditional, non-electric bicycle and will
be subject to all of the duties of a traditional, non-electric bicycle. This
rule intends to facilitate increased access to public lands that may otherwise
be inaccessible to those with disabilities, health issues, or age-related
limitations.
      (2)   A Class 3 electric bicycle may not be operated on a bicycle path,
multi-use trail or single-use trail unless it is within a highway or roadway;
provided, that the provisions of this division (H)(2) are not applicable to a
bicycle path, multi-use trail, or single-use trail if the municipality, local
authority, or governing body of a state agency that has jurisdiction over the
bicycle path, multi-use trail, or single-use trail expressly permits that
operation.
      (3)   Electric bicycles will not be given special access beyond what
traditional or non-electric bicycles are allowed. For example, electric
bicycles will not be allowed on roads or trails or in areas where traditional,
non-electric bicycle travel is prohibited.
      (4)   This division (H) may not be construed to limit the authority of
the owner of a private way or the owner of private property to restrict or
allow the operation of electric bicycles on the way or property.
   (I)   Age restrictions related to the operation of electric bicycles are as
follows:
      (1)   A person under 16 years of age may not operate a Class 3 electric
bicycle; and
      (2)   A person under 15 years of age who is an operator or passenger on
an electric bicycle shall wear a properly fitted and fastened bicycle helmet,
pursuant to the Child Bicycle Safety Act, W. Va. Code §§ 17C-11A-1 et seq.
   (J)   A person under the influence of alcohol or controlled substances shall
not operate a Class 1, Class 2 or Class 3 electric bicycle.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11-8)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
70.99 for general traffic code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.99, any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
76.09(B) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program which includes injury
prevention education or both fined and required to perform such community
service. Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-11-1, no court costs
may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
76.09(B).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
76.09(B), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
76.09 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code § 59-2-1
(c). Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s highway safety program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(W. Va. Code § 17C-11A-7) (Prior Code, § 373.99)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator of any motor vehicle to run through
the traffic light in the town at the intersection of Route 10 and the road to
Kopperston when said light indicates a red signal to the vehicle operator
traveling west. Any violator of this schedule shall be subject to a minimum
fine of $2 and maximum of $10.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Dogs and other animals running at large
   
90.02   Keeping animals; pens and stables
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals
   
90.04   Vicious or dangerous animals
   
90.05   Concealing dog to avoid payment
   
90.06   Violation of quarantine
   
90.07   Trespassing upon or damaging property of another
   
90.08   Impoundment
   
90.09   Rabies control
   
90.10   Bird sanctuary
   
90.11   Sale of fowl and rabbits
   
90.12   Barking, howling or squalling dogs or other animals
   
90.13   Animal control officer
   
90.14   Spaying and neutering
   
90.15   Identification tags for cats
   
90.16   Animal defecation
   
90.17   Trapping prohibited
   
90.18   Keeping of animals and livestock
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.30   Purpose and intent
   
90.31   Definitions
   
90.32   Procedure for declaring a dog dangerous
   
90.33   Notification of dangerous dog declaration
   
90.34   Appeal from dangerous dog declaration
   
90.35   Keeping of dangerous dogs
   
90.36   Permit and tag required for a dangerous dog
   
90.37   Notification of intent to impound
   
90.38   Immediate impoundment
   
90.39   Impoundment hearing
   
90.40   Destruction
   
90.41   Appeal from order of humane destruction
   
90.42   Change of ownership
   
90.43   Continuation of dangerous dog declaration
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person being the owner or having charge of cattle, sheep, geese,
ducks, turkeys, chickens or other fowl or animals shall permit them to run at
large upon any public place, or upon any unenclosed lands, or upon the premises
of another.
   (B)   No person being the owner of or having charge of any dog shall permit
it to run at large upon any public place or upon the premises of another. Dogs
not confined on the owner’s property shall be maintained on a leash of a length
no longer than six feet. The name and address of the owner and the town tax tag
shall be attached to the collars of dogs at all times. The regulations
governing the keeping of dangerous dogs as set forth in §
90.04 shall supersede any conflicting provisions within this division (B).
   (C)   The running at large of any such animal in or upon any of the places
mentioned in this section is prima facie evidence that it is running at large
in violation of this section.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, cats shall be permitted to run at large
only if such a cat is wearing identification as set forth in §
90.15.
(Prior Code, § 505.01) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 KEEPING ANIMALS; PENS AND STABLES.
   (A)   Rabbits. No person shall confine, keep or house live rabbits,
exceeding two in number, within the town, in any pen, coop or structure located
within 120 feet of the residence or dwelling of any other person without the
consent of such person in writing.
   (B)   Permitting pens to become offensive. No person shall permit any yard,
kennel, pen, coop or other structure wherein live animals may be confined, kept
or housed to become or be offensive, noxious or deleterious to health.
   (C)   Chickens. No person shall confine, keep or house chickens or other
domestic fowl, exceeding two in number, in any pen, coop or structure located
within 80 feet of the residence or dwelling of any other person without the
consent in writing of such other person; provided, that this section shall not
be construed to prohibit the proprietor of any market, hotel, restaurant,
boarding house or residence from keeping or confining for sale or slaughter
chickens or other fowls in a pen or coop within such prescribed limit for a
period not exceeding ten days; provided that such pen or coop is thoroughly
cleaned at least once during each 48-hour period and rendered free from
offensive, noxious or deleterious odors.
   (D)   Permitting coops to become offensive. No person shall permit any pen,
coop or other structure wherein chickens or other fowl may be confined, kept or
housed, to become offensive, noxious or deleterious to health.
   (E)   Stables. Whoever shall keep a stable within the town shall cause all
the stable manure produced thereat to be kept within such stable until hauled
away, and he or she shall in no case allow such manure to accumulate in such
quantities or condition as to become offensive, or deleterious to health; and
all manure so kept within the stable shall be protected from flies by means of
screens or other fly-excluding devices. The floor of every stable shall be kept
free from standing or seeping stable liquids, excrements and other offensive
matters.
(Prior Code, § 505.02) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly mistreat, abandon or withhold proper
sustenance, including food, water, shelter or medical treatment, necessary to
sustain normal health and fitness or to end suffering or abandon any animal to
die, or intentionally, knowingly or recklessly leave an animal unattended and
confined in a motor vehicle when physical injury to or death of the animal is
likely to result, or ride an animal when it is physically unfit, or bait or
harass any animal for the purpose of making it perform for a person’s
amusement, or cruelly chain any animal or use, train or possess any
domesticated animal for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any
other domesticated animal.
   (B)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or country pound of the country in which the conviction
was rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable
for any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or country pound
as a result.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same
meaning ascribed to it by W. Va. Code § 60A-l-101(e).
   (E)   The provisions of this section do not apply to lawful acts of hunting,
fishing, trapping or animal training or farm livestock, poultry, gaming fowl or
wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and maintained
according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry, gaming fowl or
wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane use of animals
or activities regulated under and in conformity with the provisions of 7 U.S.C.
§§ 2131 et seq. And the regulations promulgated thereunder, as both such
statutes and regulations are in effect on the effective date of this section.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-19) (Prior Code, § 505.03) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.04 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly, or needlessly beat, torture, torment,
mutilate, kill or willfully deprive necessary sustenance, to any dog or cat,
irrespective of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that of
another person.
   (B)   No person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any place
unprotected from the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient
quantity of food and water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick or diseased dog
or cat or be engaged in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one dog or cat
to fight against another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat,
or receive money for the admission of any person, or use, train or possess a
dog or cat for the purpose of seizing, detaining or maltreating any other dog
or cat.
(Prior Code, § 505.031) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CONCEALING DOG TO AVOID PAYMENT.
   No person shall hide, conceal or secrete any taxable dog to avoid the
assessment and head tax on such dog or prevent the seizure and impounding of
any dog on which such tax is not paid.
(Prior Code, § 505.05) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 VIOLATION OF QUARANTINE.
   When the Commissioner of Agriculture of the state, or any other officer duly
authorized to do so, has established a quarantine on dogs in the area occupied
by the town, any dog found running at large in such quarantined area in the
town may be seized and confined, or may be shot or otherwise destroyed to any
person.
(Prior Code, § 505.06) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.07 TRESPASSING UPON OR DAMAGING PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   No person having the possession of a dog shall lead or take such dog upon
the private property of another without permission, or knowingly permit any
such dog to soil on, or damage property of another without permission. No
person having the possession of a cat shall knowingly permit any such cat to
soil on, damage or destroy yards, flowers or shrubbery where KNOWINGLY means
that the person having possession of a dog or cat has been made aware, by
previous incidents, of its propensity to destroy or damage the property of
another, and has failed to take action which will prohibit the same.
(Prior Code, § 505.07) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The town may establish a dog pound and keep therein dogs seized under any of
the provisions of this subchapter. Any dog for which the head tax is
delinquent, or any dog found running at large in the town, may be seized and
impounded. The owner or keeper of any impounded dog may have such dog upon
paying the delinquent tax, if any, thereon and the impounding fees. If not
paid, such dog may be sold and there shall be deducted from the proceeds of
such sale the delinquent tax, if any, and the impounding fees, and the residue,
if any, shall be paid over to the owner of such dog. If such dog is not sold,
it may be killed and its body disposed of by the town without liability to the
owner.
(Prior Code, § 505.08) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.09 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Vaccination required. Whoever owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat
within the town shall, once every two years have such dog or cat properly
vaccinated or immunized against rabies as provided by W. Va. Code §§ 19-20A-
1 to 19-20A-8, as amended, or hereafter amended; provided, however, that dogs
need not be vaccinated before the age of five months and cats before the age of
three months; and provided, further, that dogs or cats entering the town
temporarily cannot be kept and maintained within the town for a period of more
than 30 days unless properly vaccinated.
   (B)   Record of vaccination. Whoever vaccinates or revaccinates a dog or cat
against rabies shall keep a record of such vaccination or revaccination, and
shall dispose of such record as provided in W. Va. Code § 19-20A-3, as amended
or hereafter amended.
   (C)   Vaccination tag. Any dog vaccinated or revaccinated as required by
this subchapter shall have a tag indicating the year of vaccination and the
number of the record of such vaccination on such tag, which tag shall be
securely fastened to the collar worn by the dog.
   (D)   Violations of divisions (A), (B) or (C) of this section. No person who
owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat within the town shall fail to have such dog
or cat vaccinated or revaccinated against rabies; fail or refuse to keep the
required report of such vaccination; fail or refuse to provide the required
tag; or obstruct or interfere in any way with the enforcement of any provisions
of divisions (A), (B) or (C).
   (E)   Dogs, cats and the like; rabies observation.
      (1)   Any person who owns or harbors any dog, cat or other domesticated
animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, which bites any person, shall forthwith
confine and quarantine the animal for a period of ten days for rabies
observation.
      (2)   If any unvaccinated domesticated animal is bitten by a rabid
animal, the owner shall confine the bitten animal for a period of six months.
The animal shall be vaccinated or herein, the municipal animal control officer
may cause such animal to be placed in the custody and care of a licensed
veterinarian for such purpose at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 505.09) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   The entire area within the corporate limits of the town is hereby designated
as a bird sanctuary. No person shall trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot or
molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests.
(Prior Code, § 505.10) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.11 SALE OF FOWL AND RABBITS.
   (A)   Sale or raffle of artificially colored chicks or rabbits prohibited.
No chick, duckling, gosling or rabbit that has been dyed or otherwise colored
artificially may be sold or offered for sale, raffled, offered or given as a
prize, premium or advertising device, or displayed in any store, carnival or
other public place.
   (B)   Restrictions on sale of chicks. Chicks, ducklings and goslings younger
than four weeks of age may not be sold or offered for sale, raffled or offered
or given as a prize, premium or advertising device, in quantity of less than
six birds to an individual person.
   (C)   Care of chicks offered for sale. Stores, shops, vendors and others
offering chicks, ducklings or goslings for sale, raffle or as a prize, premium
or advertising device, or displaying chicks, ducklings or goslings to the
public, shall provide and operate brooders or other heating devices that may be
necessary to maintain the chicks, ducklings or goslings in good health and
shall keep adequate food and water available to the birds at all times.
(Prior Code, § 505.11) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 BARKING, HOWLING OR SQUALLING DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog or other animal within the town
which, by frequent and habitual barking, howling, yelping, crying or squalling
creates unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such character, intensity
and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the town. Any
person who shall allow any dog or other animal habitually to remain, be lodged
or fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns, shall be considered as harboring such dog or other animal.
(Prior Code, § 505.12) (Ord. passed 10-11-2001; Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The town is hereby authorized to refer any animal problems or violations of
this chapter to the county animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 505.13) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.14 SPAYING AND NEUTERING.
   The town recognizes that locally numerous dogs and cats are euthanized each
year because they are not wanted. For that reason the town encourages all dog
and cat owners to contact the County Humane Society for information regarding
spaying and neutering.
(Prior Code, § 505.14) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.15 IDENTIFICATION TAGS FOR CATS.
   The town recommends that the name and address of any cat’s owner be attached
to his or her cat by means of a collar, tattoo, implanted identification chip
or other recognizable means.
(Prior Code, § 505.15) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.16 ANIMAL DEFECATION.
   No owner or custodian of any animal shall cause or allow such animal to
soil, defile or defecate on any public property or upon any street, sidewalk,
public way or upon private property other than that of the owner, unless such
owner or custodian immediately removes and disposes of all feces deposited by
such animal by the following methods:
   (A)   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
paper or plastic bag or other container; and
   (B)   Removal of such bag or container to the property of the animal owner
or custodian and disposition thereafter in a manner as otherwise may be
permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 505.16) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 TRAPPING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to prevent the potential
harm that may be inflicted upon people, particularly children, and to prevent
the maiming, unselective catching, and destruction of wild animals and birds
and domestic animals that come in contact with traps.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE ANIMAL. A wild animal that is either causing property damage or
threatening public health and safety, and does not include domesticated
animals.
      TRAP. Any mechanical device or snare which seeks to hold, capture or kill
an animal.
      TRAPPING. The setting or lying or otherwise using of a trap.
   (C)   Trapping prohibited. No person, firm, corporation or association shall
do any trapping anywhere in the town. Traps discovered by the animal control
officer of the county which have been unlawfully set in the town may be seized
and used a prima facie evidence that a violation has been committed.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the use of any trap
specifically designed to kill rats, mice or moles with the consent of the owner
or occupant of the real property where the trap is set.
      (2)   The provisions of this section do not apply to cage-type live traps
employed for the control of nuisance animals so long as such traps are approved
by the animal control officer of the county, set with the consent of the real
property owner or occupant, and are tended to at least once every 24 hours.
         (a)   Any such trapping will only be done at the request of the
property owner upon whose land traps will be set;
         (b)   Any such trapping will be for the sole purpose of removing
nuisance animals;
         (c)   Prior to setting any such trap, the trapper must provide the
town with documentation evidencing that he or she is currently licensed by the
state DNR as an ADC agent;
         (d)   Any such state DNR licensed ADC agent who is retained by a
property owner to trap nuisance animals must, within 24 hours of setting any
such trap, contact the town and notify as to the name of the property owner,
the address of the property upon which trapping will take place, the nuisance
animal being trapped, and the type and number of traps being set on said
property;
         (e)   Said state DNR licensed ADC agent must contact the town within
24 hours of removing any such trap and notify him or her of the location from
which said trap(s) have been removed; and
         (f)   Said state DNR licensed ADC agent may only use trapping
relocation methods and procedures authorized by the WV DNR.
(Prior Code, § 505.17) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 KEEPING OF ANIMALS AND LIVESTOCK.
   It is hereby forbidden for any person to keep, stable, or maintain any
cattle, horses, mules or donkeys, or any other type of livestock within the
town limits.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.30 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the town. It is intended to be applicable to
dangerous dogs, as defined in §
90.31 by ensuring responsible handling by their owners through registration,
confinement and liability insurance.
(Prior Code, § 507.01) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person employed or appointed by the county who
is authorized to investigate and enforce violations relating to animal control
or cruelty.
   AT LARGE. That a dog is not under the direct control of the owner,
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, because of its aggressive nature, training or
characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm or death to
human beings or domestic animals, or would constitute a danger to human life,
physical well-being or property or other domestic animals if not kept under the
direct control of the owner. This definition shall not apply to dogs utilized
by law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties.
      (2)   The term DANGEROUS DOG includes any dog that according to the
records of either any town, any state or any law enforcement agency:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked bitten, attacked, endangered or inflicted
injury on a human being on public or private property, or when unprovoked, has
chased or approached a person upon the street, sidewalks or any public grounds
in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, provided that such
actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one or more persons and
dutifully investigated by any of the above referenced authorities;
         (b)   Has severely injured or killed a domestic animal while off the
owner’s property;
         (c)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting, or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
         (d)   Has previously been declared a dangerous dog by another
municipality, any county or any state.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Immediate, continuous physical control of a dog such as by
means of a leash, cord, secure fence, or chain of such strength to restrain the
dog and controlled by a person capable of restraining the dog, or safe and
secure restraint within a vehicle. If the controlling person is at all times
fully and clearly within unobstructed sight and hearing of the dog, voice
control shall be considered DIRECT CONTROL when the dog is actually
participating in training or in an official showing, obedience, or field event.
DIRECT CONTROL shall not be required of dogs actually participating in a legal
sport in an authorized area or to government police dogs.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The taking or picking up and confining of an animal by any
police officer, animal control officer, or any other public officer, under the
provisions of this chapter of the town code of ordinances or any applicable
state law provision.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft materials or of metal, designed
to fasten over the mouth of any animal to prevent the animal from biting any
person or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning,
harboring or keeping any animal, or in the case of a person under the age of
18, that person’s parent or legal guardian. An animal shall be deemed to be
harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three or more consecutive days. This
definition shall not apply to any veterinary clinic or boarding kennel.
   SANITARY CONDITION. A condition of good order and cleanliness to minimize
the possibility of disease transmission,
   UNDER RESTRAINT. That an animal is secured by a leash, led under the control
of a person physically capable of restraining the animal and obedient to that
person’s commands, or securely enclosed within the real property limits of the
owner’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 507.02) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.32 PROCEDURE FOR DECLARING A DOG DANGEROUS.
   (A)   (1)   An animal control officer or any adult person may request under
oath that a dog be classified as dangerous as defined in §
90.31 by submitting a sworn, written complaint on a form approved by the town.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such complaint, the town shall notify the owner of
the dog that a complaint has been filed and that an investigation into the
allegations as set forth in the complaint will be conducted.
   (B)   Criteria to be considered during the above investigation shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Provocation;
      (2)   Severity of attack or injury to a person or domestic animal;
      (3)   Previous aggressive behavior of the dog;
      (4)   Site and circumstances of the incident; and
      (5)   Statements from interested parties.
   (C)   At the conclusion of an investigation, the town may:
      (1)   Determine that the dog is not dangerous and, if the dog is
impounded, may waive any impoundment fees incurred and order the release of the
dog to its owner; or
      (2)   Determine that the dog is dangerous and order the owner to comply
with the requirements for keeping dangerous dogs set forth in §
90.35, and if the dog is impounded, release the dog to its owner after the
owner has paid all fees incurred for the impoundment.
(Prior Code, § 507.03) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.33 NOTIFICATION OF DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION.
   (A)   (1)   Within five business days after declaring a dog dangerous, the
town shall notify the owner by certified mail of the dog’s designation as a
dangerous dog and any specific restrictions and conditions for keeping the dog,
as set for in §
90.35.
      (2)   The town also shall notify the Police Department and the town’s
animal control officer of the designation of any dog as a dangerous dog. Such
notification shall describe the dog and specify any particular’ requirements or
conditions placed upon the dog owner.
   (B)   If the town cannot with due diligence locate the owner of a dog that
has been seized pursuant to this subchapter, the town shall cause the dog to be
impounded for not less than five days. If the owner fails to claim the dog, the
town may cause the dog to be humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 507.04) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.34 APPEAL FROM DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION.
   If the town determines that a dog is dangerous at the conclusion of the
investigation conducted under §
90.32, that determination shall be final unless the dog owner applies to a
court of competent jurisdiction for any remedies that may be available within
30 days after receiving notice that the dog has been finally declared
dangerous. The appeal shall be a civil proceeding for the purpose of affirming
or reversing the town’s determination of dangerousness.
(Prior Code, § 507.05) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.35 KEEPING OF DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The keeping of a dangerous dog as defined in §
90.31 shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Leash. No person having charge, custody, control or possession of a
dangerous dog shall allow the dog to exit its kennel, pen or other proper
enclosure unless such dog is securely attached to a leash no more than four
feet in length. No such person shall permit a dangerous dog to be kept on a
chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person
capable of controlling the dog is in physical control of the leash.
   (B)   Muzzle. It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a dangerous
dog to allow the dog to be outside of its proper enclosure unless it is
necessary for the dog to receive veterinary care or exercise. In such cases,
the dog shall wear a muzzle shall not interfere with the dog’s breathing or
vision.
   (C)   Confinement.
      (1)   Except when leashed and muzzled as provided in this section, a
dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or confined in a locked pen or
other secure enclosure that is suitable to prevent the entry of children and is
designed to prevent the dog from escaping. The enclosure shall include shelter
and protection from the elements and shall provide adequate exercise room,
light and ventilation.
      (2)   The enclosed structure shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   The structure must have secure sides and a secure top, or all
sides must be at least six feet high;
         (b)   The structure must have a bottom permanently attached to the
sides or the sides must be imbedded not less than one foot into the ground; and
         (c)   The structure must be of such material and closed in such a
manner that the dog cannot exit the enclosure on its own.
   (D)   Indoor confinement. No dangerous dog shall be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such dog shall be kept in a house
or structure when the windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing
the dog from exiting the structure.
   (E)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of dangerous dogs shall
display a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the
public using the words “Beware of Dog”.
   (F)   Liability insurance, surety bond. The owner of a dangerous dog shall
present to the town proof that he or she has procured liability insurance or a
surety bond in the amount of not less than $100,000 covering any damage or
injury that may be caused by such dangerous dog. The policy shall contain a
provision requiring that the town be notified immediately by the agent issuing
the policy in the event that the insurance policy is canceled, terminated or
expires. The liability insurance or surety bond shall be obtained prior to the
issuing of a permit to keep a dangerous dog. The dog owner shall sign a
statement attesting that he or she shall maintain and not voluntarily cancel
the liability insurance policy during the 12-month period for which a permit is
sought, unless he or she ceases to own or keep the dog prior to the expiration
date of the permit period. The owner shall provide the town with notice of any
cancellation on the liability insurance policy. In the event that the owner
proves to the satisfaction of the town that insurance is not available, the
owner may post with the town that insurance is not available, the owner may
post with the town a surety bond, of an equivalent amount, payable to any
person injured by the dangerous dog.
   (G)   Mandatory spaying or neutering. Within 30 days of the town’s
determination that a particular dog is dangerous, the owner of said dog shall
have it spayed or neutered and provide the town with a written statement from
the veterinarian, who performed the operation, verifying the same.
   (H)   Notification of escape. The owner or keeper of a dangerous dog shall
notify the town immediately if such dog escapes from its enclosure or restraint
and is at large. Such immediate notification shall also be required if the dog
bites or attacks a person or domestic animal.
(Prior Code, § 507.06) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 PERMIT AND TAG REQUIRED FOR A DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall, within three business days after
classification of the dog as dangerous or upon acquisition of such a dog,
obtain an annual permit from the town to harbor the dog. The fee for such
permit shall be $50 per year.
   (B)   At the time the permit is issued, a red circular tag shall be issued
to the owner of the dangerous dog. The tag shall be worn at all times by the
dog to clearly and easily identify it as a dangerous dog.
   (C)   The permit for maintaining a dangerous dog shall be presented to an
animal control officer or police officer upon demand.
(Prior Code, § 507.07) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.37 NOTIFICATION OF INTENT TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   When the town intends to impound a dog declared to be dangerous for
violation of §
90.35, the town shall notify the owner or custodian of the dog, by certified
mail, of the intended impoundment at least five business days prior to the
intended impoundment except as provided in §
90.38.
   (B)   The notice of intent to impound shall inform the owner or custodian of
the dog that he or she may request in writing, within five business days prior
to the intended impoundment, a hearing before the town to contest the intended
impoundment and finding of violation.
   (C)   Upon request by the owner or custodian of the dog for a hearing
pursuant to division (B) of this section, a hearing shall be held within ten
business days after the request for a hearing. Notice of the date, time and
location of the hearing shall be provided by certified mail to the dog’s owner
or custodian requesting such hearing.
   (D)   If the owner or custodian requests a hearing pursuant to division (B)
of this section, no impoundment shall take place until conclusion of the
hearing, except as authorized in §
90.38.
(Prior Code, § 507.08) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.38 IMMEDIATE IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   A dog previously declared to be dangerous may be immediately impounded
without a pre-impoundment hearing when the town determines such immediate
impoundment is necessary for the protection of public health or safety. Such
immediate impoundment may be ordered for violation of §
90.35 or when the dog bites a person or domestic animal.
   (B)   The owner or custodian of the dog immediately impounded pursuant to
division (A) of this section shall be notified of the impoundment by certified
mail within five business days after the dog’s impoundment.
   (C)   The notice of impoundment shall inform the owner or custodian of the
dog that he or she may request, in writing, a hearing before the Town Manager
to contest the impoundment within five business days after the mailing of the
notice impoundment.
   (D)   Upon request by the owner or custodian of the dog for a hearing under
division (C) of this section, a hearing shall be held within ten business days
after such request. Notice of the date, time and location of the hearing shall
be provided by certified mail to the dog owner requesting the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 507.09) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.39 IMPOUNDMENT HEARING.
   (A)   If after a hearing on impoundment, the town finds no violation of §
90.35, or that the dog has not bitten an individual, or a domestic animal, the
dog shall be returned to its owner or custodian if already impounded, or shall
not be impounded as intended.
   (B)   (1)   Incident to the finding and conclusions made at the impoundment
hearing, the town may impose reasonable restrictions and conditions for the
maintenance of the dog, in addition to those set forth in §
90.35, to ensure the health and safety of the public and the animal.
      (2)   Such conditions may include, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Posting of bond or other proof of ability to respond to damages;
         (b)   Specific requirements as to size, construction and design of a
kennel in which to house the dog;
         (c)   Requirements as to type and method of restraint an/or muzzling
of the dog;
         (d)   Photo identification or permanent making of the dog for purposes
of identification; and
         (e)   Payment of reasonable fees to recover the costs incurred by the
town in ensuring compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 507.10) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.40 DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   The town may order the destruction of a dog that it determines to be
extremely dangerous to public health or safety, a dog that has made an
extremely vicious attack upon an individual, or a dog declared dangerous whose
owner is unable or unwilling to adequately restrain it.
   (B)   The town shall give written notice by certified mail of his or her
intention to destroy such dog to the owner or custodian of the dog, who may
request in writing, within ten business days after delivery of such notice, a
hearing before the town to contest the intended destruction.
   (C)   If no hearing is requested pursuant to division (B) of this section,
the dog shall be destroyed pursuant to applicable provisions of law.
   (D)   If hearing is requested pursuant to division (B) of this section, such
hearing shall be held by the town within ten business days after the request;
and the dog shall not be destroyed prior to the conclusion of the hearing.
   (E)   The dog owner shall be responsible for payment of all boarding costs
and other fees as may be required for the town to humanely and safely keep the
animal during any legal proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 507.11) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.41 APPEAL FROM ORDER OF HUMANE DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   If a §
90.40 hearing results in the town ordering a dangerous dog to be humanely
destroyed, that decision shall be final unless the dog owner applies to a court
of competent jurisdiction for any remedies that may be available within ten
days after receiving notice of the destruction order.
   (B)   If an appeal is timely filed, the town shall suspend the destruction
order pending the final determination of the court. The appeal shall be a civil
proceeding for the purpose of affirming or reversing the town’s destruction
order.
(Prior Code, § 507.12) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.42 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any owner of a dangerous dog who sells or otherwise transfers
ownership, custody or residence of the dog shall, within ten days after such
change of ownership or residence, provide written notification to the town of
the name, address and telephone number of the new owner. It also shall be the
responsibility of the person transferring ownership or custody of the dog to
provide written notification of the dog’s classification as notification to the
town along with written acknowledgment by the new owner of his or her receipt
of such notification. The town shall notify the Police Department and the
county animal control officer of any changes of ownership, custody or residence
of the dog within three business days after receiving the required information
from the previous dog owner.
   (B)   Any person receiving a dog classified as dangerous must obtain the
required permit, tag and enclosure prior to acquisition of the dog. The new
owner shall comply fully with the provisions of this chapter pertaining to
obtaining liability insurance, payment of fees, and maintenance, control and
ownership of a dangerous dog.
(Prior Code, § 507.13) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.43 CONTINUATION OF DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION.
   Any dog that has been declared dangerous by this town, another municipality,
any county or any state shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter as
long as it remains in the town. The person owning or having custody of any dog
designated as a dangerous dog by any municipality, county or state government
shall notify the town within ten days of moving the animal into the town. The
restrictions and conditions applicable to dangerous dogs and contained within
this chapter shall remain in force while the dog remains in the town.
(Prior Code, § 507.14) (Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Should any dog, while running at large, bite or otherwise inflict
injury upon any person thereby violating §
90.01, the person or owner having charge of any such dog shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined $500, and may be ordered by the municipal judge to
provide restitution, where appropriate. A conviction for the violation of §
90.01 shall not be a prerequisite for the filing of a civil action by the
victim of any such dog incident.
(Prior Code, § 505.01)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
90.01(B) shall be fined not more than $100. Second offenders of §
90.01(B) shall be subject to the penalty provided in this section and also be
given the alternative of paying the maximum fine under this section or present
evidence of having their dogs spayed or neutered within 30 days of any
violations hereof.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
90.11 shall be fined not more than $25; provided, that after any violation has
been called to the attention of the violator by any member of the Police
Department of this town, each day on which such violation continues or is
repeated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates §
90.03(A) shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $2,000 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. Any person convicted of a
second or subsequent violation of §
90.03(A) shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not less than
$500 nor more than $3,000, or both. The incarceration set forth in this
division (E)(1) shall be mandatory unless the provisions of division (E)(2) of
this section are complied with.
      (2)   (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
no person who has been convicted of a violation of the provisions of §
90.03(A) may be granted probation until the defendant has undergone a complete
psychiatric or psychological evaluation and the court has reviewed such
evaluation. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be indigent, he
or she completes a program of anger management intervention for perpetrators of
animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be indigent,
he or she shall be responsible for the cost of the program.
         (b)   For any person convicted of a violation of division (E)(2)(a) of
this section the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this
section, impose a requirement that he or she complete a program of anger
management intervention for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the
defendant is determined by the court to be indigent, he or she shall be
responsible for the cost of the program.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a
violation of §
90.03, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from possessing, owning
or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period of five years
following entry of a conviction. A violation under this division (E)(3) as
punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and forfeiture of the animal.
   (F)   Whoever violates §
90.03(B) shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-19)
   (G)   Whoever violates §
90.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both. In addition the Humane Officer may remove the dog or cat involved and
place it in the pound and such dog or cat shall no be returned to the owner or
perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but shall be put up for adoption to a
desirable home, or given into the care of a humane society or upon the
recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 505.99)
   (H)   The penalty for any violation of §
90.09(E) shall be a fine of $50 and /or incarceration for a period of not less
than two nor more than three days.
(Prior Code, § 505.09)
   (I)   Any person who violates §
90.16 shall be fined $25.
(Prior Code, § 505.16)
   (J)   Any person, firm, corporation or association violating any provision
of §
90.17 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day that a violation
continues.
(Prior Code, § 505.17)
   (K)   Whoever violates §
90.18 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any owner of a dangerous
dog registered with the town to fail to comply with the requirements and
conditions set forth in §
90.35. An owner or keeper of a dangerous dog who fails to register the dog
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and is fined $250. Each day that the dangerous
dog is not registered shall be a separate offense. The fine for any other
violation of this section, for which a specific fine amount has not been set
forth, shall be one separate citable offense. Any dog found to be in violation
of §
90.35 shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment. In addition,
failure to comply with the requirements and conditions set forth in §
90.35 result in the town revoking the permit providing for the keeping of such
animal. Other ordinances pertaining to penalties for injuries inflicted by dogs
shall be in addition to the penalties set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 507.06)
   (M)   The owner or keeper of a dangerous dog who registers but fails to
place the red tag referenced in §
90.36(B) on said dog shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined $250.
(Prior Code, § 507.07)
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Prohibiting the drinking of intoxicating liquors and beer in the Laurel
Fork Pool
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PROHIBITING THE DRINKING OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS AND BEER IN THE LAUREL
FORK POOL.
   It is hereby declared illegal for any person to drink or to exhibit and
offer for drink any intoxicating liquors and beer within the limits of the area
of the Laurel Fork Park of the town.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons in violation of §
91.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $15 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 8-3-1978)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
112.   HAWKERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITATION
      
113.   GAMING DEVICES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Setback requirements
New Business Application and Inspection
   
110.15   Short title
   
110.16   Purposes and findings
   
110.17   Determinations
   
110.18   Violations
License Tax
   
110.30   Definitions
   
110.31   License tax levied
   
110.32   Slot machines and automatic devices
   
110.33   Circuses, carnivals and other public shows
   
110.34   Trading stamps
   
110.35   Fortune telling
   
110.36   Junk dealers and their agents
   
110.37   Hawkers and peddlers
   
110.38   Pawn brokers
   
110.39   Itinerant vendors
   
110.40   Theaters and public shows
   
110.41   Collection agencies
   
110.42   Employment agent
   
110.43   Bowling alleys, billiard, pool or bagatelle tables
   
110.44   Application for issuance of license; evidence of license; fee
   
110.45   Conditions precedent to doing business
   
110.46   Effect of town license
   
110.47   Time for which license granted
   
110.48   Exhibition of license
   
110.49   Licenses, a personal privilege
   
110.50   Effect of change of partners or name of firm
   
110.51   Collection by distraint
   
110.52   Additional penalties when business transacted without license
   
110.53   Collection by action or suit
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to carry on any business,
or engage in any activity, for which a town license is required by the laws and
ordinances of the said town, without first having obtained a license therefore
from the town.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1948)
§ 110.02 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Setback Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings. The Town Council has determined that it is
necessary for an ordinance which sets regulations for the distance between the
highway and a business enterprise.
   (C)   Regulation.
      (1)   No business of any nature within the town can be conducted unless
that business is located at least 12 feet back from the edge of Route 10 or any
other street or highway.
      (2)   Personal yards are not governed by this section.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
NEW BUSINESS APPLICATION AND INSPECTION
§ 110.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “New Business
Application and Inspection Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 12-13-2012)
§ 110.16 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a procedure followed
by the town when a new business files an application with the town to obtain a
business license in order to make sure that compliance with all of the town’s
ordinances is maintained.
(Ord. passed 12-13-2012)
§ 110.17 DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby implements the following procedures to take place
when a new business applicant files an application for a business license.
   (A)   Each time that a new business license application is received by the
Treasurer’s office, or by a utility clerk that works within the Treasurer’s
office, the Treasurer is responsible for informing the Street Commissioner, in
writing, of a request to inspect the new business applicant’s location.
   (B)   The Street Commissioner will, within ten days of receiving the written
request of the Treasurer, complete a written report as to his or her findings
of whether or not the new business applicant is in compliance with all
ordinances of the town.
   (C)   The Street Commissioner will then contact the Recorder and have the
matter placed on the next agenda of the Town Council so that the Street
Commissioner can inform the Council of his or findings as well.
   (D)   The Town Council will then consider the report of the Street
Commissioner and will discuss and vote upon the matter of whether or not to
accept the business license application of the new business.
   (E)   All employees and officials of the town, including the Treasurer, the
Street Commissioner, the Recorder and the Council will act as if time is of the
essence so as not to unnecessarily delay the application and licensing process
for the new business.
   (F)   (1)   If the new business applying for a new license is deemed by the
Town Council to not be in compliance with the ordinances of the town, then the
new business will be given 60 days to come into compliance with the town’s
ordinances and then will be given the opportunity to request another visit from
the Street Commissioner for another inspection, with the above procedures being
followed again.
      (2)   If, after the second inspection, the business is still not in
compliance with all of the town’s ordinances, then the business will not be
allowed to apply for a license again.
(Ord. passed 12-13-2012)
§ 110.18 VIOLATIONS.
   Any employee who does not comply with this subchapter is subject to
disciplinary procedures from the Town of Oceana Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 12-13-2012)
LICENSE TAX
§ 110.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes natural persons, partnerships, associations, corporations
and all other organizations or groups by means of which any of the hereinafter
specified businesses, activities, trades or employments are engaged in or
prosecuted.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.31 LICENSE TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   No person shall, without a license, engage in or prosecute, within the
corporate limits of the town, any of the businesses, activities, trades or
employments named in §§
110.32 through
110.43.
   (B)   The license taxes hereinafter specified are hereby levied on every
person engaged in or prosecuting, within this town, any such business,
activity, trade or employment.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.32 SLOT MACHINES AND AUTOMATIC DEVICES.
   (A)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain an automatic baggage or
parcel checking machine or device which is used for the storage of baggage or
parcels of any character, shall be $0.50 for each section of any such device
which is operated on the coin-in-the-slot principle; the annual license fee to
keep or maintain any automatic toilet locker or device shall be $0.50 for every
such locker or device; the annual license fee to keep or maintain any other
automatic penny slot machine or device, which is not a gambling device under
any laws of the state, shall be at the rate of $2 for each machine or device
kept or maintained by the licensee; the annual license fee to keep or maintain
any other automatic operated machine or device, which is not a gambling device
as aforesaid, shall be at the rate of $5 for each such machine or device kept
or maintained by the licensee.
   (B)   The term SLOT MACHINE when used in this section shall not be deemed to
mean or include any pay telephone or postage stamp vending machine operated on
the coin-in-the-slot principle.
   (C)   Application for the license required herein shall contain the number
of such licenses or devices to be kept or maintained by the licensee within
this town during the ensuing license year. One license certificate shall be
issued to every person keeping or maintaining such license or devices as
aforesaid, but the Town Recorder shall issue to any such licensee a
decalcomania stamp or other evidence of license for each such machine or
device, which decalcamania stamp or other evidence or license shall be securely
attached to the side or front of each such machine or device properly protected
and plainly visible. Every such machine or device shall also bear on the side
or front thereof so as to be plainly visible the names and addresses of the
persons keeping or maintaining such machine or device.
   (D)   The proprietor or owner of the business conducted in the place where
such machine is kept or maintained is charged with the responsibility of
satisfying himself or herself that such decalcomania stamp or other evidence of
license is so attached before permitting its installation in his or her place
of business and in the event the owner of any automatic machine or device
refuses, neglects or fails to pay the license fee due upon any machine or
device, then the proprietor or owner of the business conducted in the place
where such machine is installed, operated or maintained shall be liable for the
payment of such license fee, and upon the refusal or failure to pay such fee
the Town Recorder or his or her agents may take such machine or device into
possession and deliver the same to the Chief of Police of the town, or the
Chief of Police on his or her own initiative or upon order or direction of the
Mayor, Town Recorder, or his or her agents, may take such machine or device
into possession, and in either event such machine or device shall be impounded
until such license fee is paid; in the event the license fee and penalties are
not paid to the Town Recorder within ten days after the date of such impounding
then the Chief of Police shall sell such machine or device in the manner
provided by law for the sale of personal property for taxes, and from the
proceeds thereof shall discharge and pay the license fee due on such machine or
device and his or her cost, including cost of impounding, storage, penalties
and other fees due the town and the Chief of Police; and the balance, if any,
shall be forfeited to the town.
   (E)   Except where the principle business of the operation of a store is the
operation of such machines or devices, no license fee shall be required of
persons keeping or maintaining such machines or devices owned by them in their
own licensed stores; provided, however, that any person exempt from such
license shall obtain from the Town Recorder a license receipt, decalcomania
stamp or other evidence of exemption, at a cost not to exceed $0.50 each,
showing that he or she is so exempt, which shall be effective for the period as
provided for annual license in this section; further to obtain such license
receipt or other evidence of exemption, he or she shall make an affidavit and
produce such other evidence as to the fact entitling him or her to such
exemption as the Town Recorder, in his or her discretion, may require, which
shall be on a form to be prescribed by the Town Recorder.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.33 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND OTHER PUBLIC SHOWS.
   (A)   The license to exhibit a circus or menagerie, a circus and menagerie
combined and wild west show or other itinerant show not exhibited in a theater,
opera house or other permanent place for public shows, shall be based upon the
number of railroad cars or motor trucks used to transport the property or
equipment of such shows, but not including railroad cars or motor trucks used
to transport the personnel thereof. If railroad cars are used the fee shall be
$4 for each car for each day in which any performance is given; if motor trucks
are used the fee shall be $3 for each truck for each day on which any
performance is given.
   (B)   The license fee to exhibit a street or other carnival shall be $5 a
week for each entertainment, performance or exhibition given at or in the
vicinity of any such carnival. Each such entertainment, performance or exhibit
shall require a separate license, whether or not shown under the same canvas or
whether or not exhibited for additional compensation; and upon any such
entertainment, performance or exhibit being concluded so that an additional fee
for admission is charged, an additional license fee shall be required for any
further or additional entertainment, performance or exhibition. To operate any
riding device of any kind at or in the vicinity of any street or carnival show
the fee shall be $10 a week for each such device.
   (C)   To keep or maintain any concession stand, selling services, goods,
wares or merchandise such as food, soft drinks, ice cream, candy floss and the
like, at or in the vicinity of such street or carnival show the fee shall be $5
a week for each such concession.
   (D)   To maintain any concession stand such as ball games, bingo, cane rack,
penny-pitch-till-you- win, striking machine, weighing machine, shooting
gallery, artful dodger, bumper, fish pond, dart game or other legitimate games
of skill, none of which shall be controlled by the operator, at or in the
vicinity of any street or carnival show, the fee shall be $10 a week for each
such concession. To operate or maintain a candy wheel or any other legitimate
merchandise wheels, when operated without control of the operator, shall be $25
a day. To operate or maintain rides of all kinds shall be $10 each a week;
provided, however, that such games as roll downs, blowers, spinners, swinging
ball, creepers, race tracks, spot the spot, and all other games controlled by
the operator are hereby forbidden and no license shall be granted to any circus
or street carnival where such games are operated, provided, further, that no
circus or street carnival shall be licensed which has any gypsy fortune tellers
or gypsies connected therewith in any manner.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any educational,
literary, dramatic, musical or benevolent society, or volunteer fire companies
not conducted for private profit where such exhibitions do not have
professional paid talent, other than a director, that is employed in such
exhibitions.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.34 TRADING STAMPS.
   The annual license fee to sell or offer for sale merchants’ trading stamps,
premium stamps or stamps or certificates of like nature, or to undertake to
redeem such stamps or certificates in money or goods, shall be $175; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to any coupon or similar device
issued and redeemed by a manufacturer or packer.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.35 FORTUNE TELLING.
   The annual license to act as a fortune teller, palmist, phrenologist,
spiritualist, medium, clairvoyant, mind reader or any other person or persons
in the art or profession of telling the part or forecasting the future shall be
$200.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.36 JUNK DEALERS AND THEIR AGENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ITINERANT JUNK COLLECTOR. Includes only such persons who carry junk from
place to place with the aid of a cart or vehicle, hand drawn or propelled, who
have no fixed place of business.
      JUNK. Old or scrap gold, copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper,
rubber, automobile parts, iron, steel and other old scrap ferrous or nonferrous
metals.
      JUNK DEALERS. Includes all persons engaged in the business of buying or
selling junk as hereinabove defined.
      JUNK DEALER’S AGENTS. Includes all persons who buy or sell junk as
hereinbefore defined for or on behalf of a junk dealer as hereinbefore defined
but the term JUNK DEALER’S AGENT shall not be construed to include any persons
regularly employed upon a salary by a regularly licensed junk dealer engaged in
such business within the town.
      NONRESIDENT JUNK DEALER or NONRESIDENT JUNK DEALER’S AGENT. Includes all
persons who act as junk dealers or junk dealers agents who are nonresidents of
the state as well as the town and all firms so engaged whose members are
nonresidents of the state and the town.
   (B)   No person within the town shall engage in the business of junk dealer,
junk dealers agent, or itinerant junk collector or without a town license
therefor, which license shall be issued as provided in this subchapter;
provided, however, that no resident license shall be issued to any junk dealer,
junk dealer’s agent or itinerant junk collector who has not been a resident of
the state for a period of at least one year and for a period of at least 30
days within the town prior to the application for such license.
   (C)   The annual license fee to act as a resident junk dealer shall be $25;
to act as a junk dealers agent $10; to act as a nonresident junk dealer or his
or her agent who buys or solicits for the purchase of junk within the town
$150; to act as an itinerant junk collector $2.
   (D)   (1)   Every resident junk dealer shall certify to the Town Recorder
the name or names of the agents for whom he or she desires a license
certificate and shall give to each agent so engaged by him or her a certificate
of authority, which certificate the agent shall at all times keep with his or
her license and no such junk dealers agents license shall be valid and
effective without such certificate of authority. The Town Recorder shall give
to each licensed certificate a numerically designated permit and such permit so
given shall be plainly stenciled or printed as “dealer’s permit No. _______”,
“Agent’s permit No. _______”, “Itinerant Collector’s Permit No. _______” or
“Nonresident Permit No. _______”, as the case may be. But the Town Recorder
shall not issue a junk dealer’s agents license until the applicant therefor
shall first have presented a certificate from a duly licensed junk dealer
showing such authorization and no license shall be issued to a junk dealer’s
agent or itinerant junk collector unless he or she shall file with the Town
Recorder an affidavit setting forth that such applicant has not been convicted
of a felony; that he or she has not been convicted of a misdemeanor in
connection with junk business within a five-year period prior to the time of
his or her application and that such agent the application is for a resident
dealer’s license that he or she has resided in the state for a period of one
year and within the town for a period of 30 days next proceeding the date of
his or her application, which said certificate and affidavit shall be filed by
the Town Recorder issuing the license in his or her office.
      (2)   No license hereunder shall be transferrable.
      (3)   No one who has been convicted of a felony shall be licensed as a
junk dealer, junk dealer’s agent, or itinerant junk collector, and no one
convicted of a misdemeanor in connection with the junk business within a five
year period prior to the passage of this subchapter shall be licensed as a junk
dealer, junk dealer’s agent or itinerant junk collector.
(Ord. eff. - -1957) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
   (A)   (1)   The annual license fee to act as a hawker or peddler, if the
person licensed travels without a motor vehicle shall be $10; if he or she
travels with a motor vehicle of not more than one-half ton capacity $15; if he
or she travels with a motor vehicle of more than one-half ton but not exceeding
one ton capacity $50; if he or she travels with a motor vehicle of more than
one ton capacity but not exceeding two ton capacity $100; and if he or she
travels with a motor vehicle of more than two ton capacity $150 plus $100 for
each additional ton or fraction thereof over two ton capacity; and the person
licensed shall pay at the same rate for each and every motor vehicle so used.
Such person shall carry his or her license in some conspicious place in his or
her vehicle or about his or her pack.
      (2)   When used in this section, the term SALE shall mean and include
both sales for money payment or for barter, and offers to make any such sale
and offers to render any service or the rendering thereof.
      (3)   Any person who shall carry goods, wares or merchandise from place
to place, either in person or by agent, or employee, and sell, for delivery at
the same time, any such goods, wares or merchandise to any purchaser,
wholesaler or retailer, and any person who shall solicit for the purpose of
rendering any service, shall be deemed a hawker or peddler under this section.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who sells
any goods, wares or merchandise to be delivered in the future; or to any of the
following who offer immediate delivery of the goods, wares or merchandise being
sold:
      (1)   Any person or persons engaged within the town in the business of
calling of agricultural, horticulture, or grazing, who sells individually or
collectively, one or more for the other or others, the products derived from
his, her or their business or calling aforesaid;
      (2)   Any person engaged in the maintenance or operation of a retail
merchandise store to exchange goods, wares or merchandise from such store or
agricultural, horticultural or grazing products or to resell any such products
received in due course of such business; nor to any other retail business
concern, established and operating continuously for one year or more within
this town in the sale of any product or products over regular routes;
      (3)   Any wholesaler or jobber selling soft drinks or non-intoxicating
beer for which he or she is duly licensed under other ordinance of this town;
      (4)   Any person who sells petroleum products, ice, wood, meat, milk, ice
cream, bread, cakes, pies and other bakery products, butter and eggs
manufactured, grown or produced by any such person and not purchased by him or
her for resale;
      (5)   Any sales by societies, groups or organizations acting for
charitable, religious or benevolent societies; or
      (6)   Any agent or salesman selling manufactured products, except green
groceries and canned or bottled fruit products produced by his or her employer,
and sells the same to retail dealers for the purpose of resale.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.38 PAWN BROKERS.
   The annual license fee to engage in the business of pawn broker shall be
$100. The term PAWN BROKER shall include any person, firm, partnership,
association or corporation engaged in the business of lending money on deposit
or pledge of personal property or other valuable thing, other than securities
or printed evidence of indebtedness, or in the business of purchasing personal
property, such as articles made of or containing gold, silver, platinum or
other precious metals or jewels of any description for the purpose of reducing
or smelting them into any form different from their condition or construction
when purchased and reselling or marketing the product.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.39 ITINERANT VENDORS.
   (A)   When used in this section the term ITINERANT VENDORS shall mean and
include all persons who engage or conduct within this town, either in one
locality, or in traveling from place to place, a temporary or transit business
of selling goods, wares and merchandise; and who, for the purpose of carrying
on such business, use, lease or occupy either in whole or in part a room,
building or other structure, or who use, lease or occupy for such purpose a
room or rooms in any hotel or lodging house, for the exhibition and sale of
such goods, wares and merchandise; and the person so engaged shall not be
relieved from the provisions of this section by reason of association
temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
conducting such temporary or transit business in connection with or as part of
the business of, or in the name of, any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer. The provisions of this section shall not apply to sales made to
persons by commercial travelers, or selling agents in the usual course of
business, nor to the bona fide sellers of goods, wares or merchandise by sample
for future delivery; nor to hawkers or peddlers in the streets, roads or
highways, from packs or vehicles, nor to persons selling meat or the products
of the farm, garden or dairy, nor to any sellers of goods, wares or merchandise
on the grounds of any agricultural association during the continuance of any
annual fair held by such association; nor to any sales by societies acting for
charitable, religious or benevolent purposes; nor to judicial sales directed by
law, or under the orders of any court; nor to the sales of the common
necessities of life in any public market place.
   (B)   (1)   No itinerant vendor shall advertise, represent or hold forth a
sale of goods, wares or merchandise as a bankrupt, insolvent, assignee,
trustee, estate, executor, administrator, receiver, attorney, manufacturers
wholesale or closing-out sale, or a sale of any goods damaged by smoke, fire,
water or otherwise unless before so doing he or she shall state in writing,
under oath, to the Town Recorder, at the time he or she makes application for a
license, hereinafter provided for, all the facts relating to the reason and
character of such special sale as advertised, held forth or represented,
including a statement of the names of the persons from whom such goods, wares
or merchandise were purchased, and the date of the delivery of the same to the
person applying for license; the place, if any, where such goods, wares or
merchandise were previously exposed for sale, and such details as are necessary
to exactly locate and fully identify all such goods, wares and merchandise
proposed to be sold.
      (2)   And such itinerant vendor shall also include in such statement the
name and residence of the owner or owners in whose interest the business is
conducted, to be kept on file in the office of the Town Recorder and a record
to be kept by the Town Recorder of all such statements, in convenient form and
open to public inspection.
   (C)   The annual license fee to carry on the business of itinerant vendor
shall be $250.
   (D)   Every itinerant vendor who sells or exhibits for sale at public or
private sale any goods, wares or merchandise without first purchasing a license
therefor, and in all other respects complying with the provisions of this
subchapter, or who makes any false statement in reference to the matter set out
in division (B) of this section or who fails to comply with the requirements of
any of the sections of this subchapter, and every person, whether principal or
agent, who, by circular, handbills, newspaper or in any manner advertises such
sale, as herein described, before proper license are issued to the vendor, and
before he or she has complied with the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a violation of this subchapter, and shall be punished accordingly.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.40 THEATERS AND PUBLIC SHOWS.
   (A)   A theater, opera house or other permanent place for public shows may
be kept or maintained upon payment of the license tax hereinafter specified.
   (B)   The license fee for operating or maintaining a theater, opera house or
other permanent place for public shows shall be $10 annually.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.41 COLLECTION AGENCIES.
   The annual license fee to engage in the business of a collection agency
within this town shall be $100. For the purpose of this section, solicitation
or collection by or through an agent operating within this town shall be
considered to be engaging in the business of a collection agency within this
town. Before such certificate of license is issued the person applying for the
same shall comply with W. Va. Code Chapter 46A, Article 2 and Chapter 47,
Article 16, requiring a bond to be executed in the sum of $2,000 and filed with
the State Tax Commissioner. The applicant shall exhibit to the Town Recorder
evidence that he or she has executed the proper bond as aforesaid.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.42 EMPLOYMENT AGENT.
   (A)   The annual license fee to conduct the business of employment agent, to
receive applications for employment, to hire or contract with persons for
employment, shall be $100, except that the annual license fee for an agency or
registry for the employment of nurses, practical nurses or undergraduate nurses
shall be $25.
   (B)   When used in this section the term EMPLOYMENT AGENT shall be deemed to
mean and include the same persons as defined in W. Va. Code § 21-2-4.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.43 BOWLING ALLEYS, BILLIARD, POOL OR BAGATELLE TABLES.
   (A)   The annual license fee to keep or maintain a bowling alley, a
billiard, pool or bagatelle table or tables of like kind, for public use, where
any charge is made for the use of the same, shall be $25; but, if more than one
of such alleys or tables be kept or maintained in the same building by the same
person, the fee shall be $25 for the first one and $15 for each additional one.
   (B)   The licensee, his or her agents, or employees, shall not permit any
person in any manner to bid or wager anything of value upon any game played
upon any such alleys or tables. Such licensee, his or her agents or employees
shall not permit one to bring any intoxicating liquors of any kind into such
building or other place where such alleys or tables are located.
   (C)   Persons keeping or maintaining billiard, pool or bagatelle tables, or
other tables of like kind, or their agents or employees, shall not permit any
person under the age of 18 years to play at such tables and shall not permit
any such person under the age of 18 years to remain or loiter, whether playing
at such tables or not, in the room where such tables are located.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.44 APPLICATION FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EVIDENCE OF LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The license provided for in this subchapter shall be issued in
the form of a certificate by the. Town Recorder to any person making proper
application therefor on forms to be prescribed and furnished by the Town
Recorder and tendering the license tax and filing tax fee of $0.50 for each
license certificate requested.
      (2)   In addition to the required license certificate there shall be
required and issued at the time of the issuance of said certificate to the
person owning coin operated devices a decalcomania stamp or other evidence of
said license certificate, by a cost not to exceed $0.50 each for each coin
operated device operated under said certificate.
   (B)   The Town Recorder shall collect in full all proper taxes and fees and
determine to his or her satisfaction that all the conditions precedent to the
granting of such license have been fulfilled by the applicant before issuing a
certificate of license.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.45 CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DOING BUSINESS.
   Payment in full of the proper tax and fee as specified in this subchapter
the issuance of a certificate of license under the provisions of §
110.44, and the fulfillment of all terms and conditions of such grant shall be
conditions precedent to the transaction of any business, activity, trade or
employment which a license is required by this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.46 EFFECT OF TOWN LICENSE.
   Nothing in this subchapter, and no payment or issuance of any certificate of
license under the provisions thereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which
otherwise may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person from any penalty
prescribed by such violation.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.47 TIME FOR WHICH LICENSE GRANTED.
   Except as may be herein otherwise expressly provided, all annual license
issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be for a period of one
year beginning on July 1 and ending on the following June 30; provided,
however, that no license for any purpose for any length of time shall be issued
for less than $2.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.48 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Every person to whom a certificate of license shall be issued under the
provisions of this subchapter shall keep such certificate posted in a
conspicious position in the place where the privilege of such license are
exercised, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this subchapter.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.49 LICENSES, A PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   Every license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall confer a
personal privilege only to transact the business, activity, trade or employment
which may be the subject of the license and shall not be exercised except by
the person holding the same and shall not be assignable.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.50 EFFECT OF CHANGE OF PARTNERS OR NAME OF FIRM.
   No changes in the name of the firm, nor the taking in of one or more new
partner, nor the withdrawal of one or more members of the firm, so long as at
least one member remains the same, shall be considered as terminating the
privileges of any license granted to such partnership or firm.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.51 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The Town Recorder or his or her agents, may distrain upon any personal
property including intangibles, of any person, delinquent in the payment of
taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid under the provisions of this subchapter
and such taxes and penalties shall be remitted within ten days after the
collection to the Town Treasurer.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.52 ADDITIONAL PENALTIES WHEN BUSINESS TRANSACTED WITHOUT LICENSE.
   Any person engaged in or prosecuting any business, activity, trade or
employment, contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, whether without
obtaining a license therefor before commencing the same, or by continuing the
same after the termination of the effective period of any such license, shall,
in addition to paying the license tax, be liable to the following penalties. If
the license tax to date is subject to a angle one or for a period of one month
or more, 10% of such tax for each month or part thereof during which he or she
had been in default; if the license tax aforesaid is for any period less than
one month, 10% of such tax for each such tax period or part thereof during
which he or she has been in default. It shall be the duty of the Town Recorder
to collect the full amount of the license and penalty therefor.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.53 COLLECTION BY ACTION OR SUIT.
   The Town Recorder may collect any license tax and penalties unpaid under the
provisions of this subchapter by action in debt, motion for judgment or other
appropriate proceedings, including suit in the courts of any justice in the
county in which the defaulting licensee resides or in the county in which the
activity subject to license was engaged in.
(Ord. eff. - -1957)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
110.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $5 nor more than $25.
   (C)   Except as may be hereinafter expressly provided, any person violating
any of the provisions of §§
110.30 through
110.52 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, or confined in jail not less than
ten days nor more than 30 days, or both, in the discretion of the court; and
each day or part thereof that any violation shall continue shall be deemed to
constitute a distinct and separate offense and be punishable accordingly.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
110.36 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 or confined in the
county jail for a period of not less than ten days nor more than 30 days or
both such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial judge.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1948; Ord. eff. - -1957)
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Chapter not applicable to certain uses by physicians, druggists and
others
   
111.03   Prohibited acts generally
   
111.04   Unlawful sale or possession by alcoholic liquor licensee
   
111.05   Unlawful purchase of alcoholic liquors from state agency
   
111.06   Intoxication or drinking in public places; illegal possession
   
111.07   Acts prohibited by non-intoxicating beer licensee
   
111.08   Unlawful purchase of non-intoxicating beer
   
111.09   Acts prohibited by private club licensee
   
111.10   Unlawful purchase from private club
   
111.11   Acts prohibited by wine dealers
   
111.12   Unlawful purchase of wine
   
111.13   Unlawful purchase from retail liquor licensee
Imposing Tax
   
111.25   Authority
   
111.26   Purpose, findings and determination
   
111.27   Levy and imposition of tax
Intoxicating Liquor
   
111.40   Manufacture and transport of intoxicating liquor
   
111.41   Regulations
Annual Fee for Private Clubs
   
111.55   Fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol whatever its origin and shall include synthetic ethyl
alcohol but not denatured alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, beer, wine and spirits, and any liquid
or solid capable of being used as a beverage, but shall not include
nonintoxicating beer.
   AN AGENCY. A drugstore, grocery store, or general store designated by the
Commission as a retail distributor of alcoholic liquor for the West Virginia
Alcohol Beverage Control Commission.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of barley, malt, hops or any
other similar product or substitute, and containing more alcohol than that of
nonintoxicating beer.
   BREWERY. An establishment where beer is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   COMMISSIONER or COMMISSION. The West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner.
   DEPARTMENT. The organization through which the Commission exercises powers
imposed upon it by this subchapter.
   DISTILLERY. An establishment where alcoholic liquor other than wine or beer
is manufactured or in any way prepared.
   INTOXICATED. A person’s faculties are impaired by alcohol or other substance
to the point where physical or mental control or both are markedly diminished.
   MANAGER. An individual who is the applicant’s or licensee’s on-premises
employee, member, partner, shareholder, director or officer who meets the
licensure requirements of W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-1 et seq. and rules promulgated
thereunder who actively manages, conducts and carries on the day-to-day
operations of the applicant or licensee with full and apparent authority or
actual authority to act on behalf of the applicant or licensee. Such duties
include, but are not limited to: coordinating staffing; reviewing and approving
payroll; ordering and paying for inventory, such as nonintoxicating beer, wine
and liquor, as applicable; and managing security staff, security systems, video
and other security equipment; and any further acts or actions involved in
managing the affairs of the business, on behalf of owners, partners, members,
shareholders, officers or directors.
   MANUFACTURE. To distill, rectify, ferment, brew, make, mix, concoct,
process, blend, bottle or fill an original package with any alcoholic liquor.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacture of any alcoholic liquor,
and among others includes a distiller, a rectifier, a wine maker and a brewer.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5)
   NONINTOXICATING BEER. All natural cereal malt beverages or products of the
brewing industry commonly referred to as beer, lager beer, ale and all other
mixtures and preparations produced by the brewing industry, including malt
coolers and nonintoxicating craft beers with no caffeine infusion or any
additives masking or altering the alcohol effect containing at least 0.5%
alcohol by volume, but not more than 11.9% of alcohol by weight, or 15% alcohol
by volume, whichever is greater. The word LIQUOR as used in W. Va. Code §§ 60-
1-1 et seq. does not include or embrace NONINTOXICATING BEER nor any of the
beverages, products, mixtures or preparations included within this definition.
   NONINTOXICATING CRAFT BEER. Any beverage obtained by the natural
fermentation of barley, malt, hops or any other similar product or substitute
and containing not less than 0.5% by volume and not more than 15% alcohol by
volume or 11.9% alcohol by weight with no caffeine infusion or any additives
masking or altering the alcohol effect.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-3)
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any closed or sealed container or receptacle used for
holding alcoholic liquor.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, limited partnership, corporation
or voluntary association.
   POWDERED ALCOHOL. An alcohol manufactured in a powder or crystalline form
for either direct use or reconstitution as an alcoholic liquor or food. For
purposes of this subchapter, POWDERED ALCOHOL excludes any material intended
for industrial purposes.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, building or conveyance to which the public has, or
is permitted to have access, including restaurants, soda fountains, hotel
dining rooms, lobbies and corridors of hotels and any highway, street, lane,
park or place of public resort or amusement: provided, that the term PUBLIC
PLACE shall not mean or include any of the above-named places or any portion or
portions thereof which qualify and are licensed under the provisions of this
subchapter to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises: provided,
however, that the term PUBLIC PLACE shall not mean or include any legally
demarcated area designated solely for the consumption of beverages and freshly
prepared food that directly connects and adjoins any portion or portions of a
premise that qualifies and is licensed under the provisions of this subchapter
to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption thereupon: provided further, that the
term PUBLIC PLACE shall not include a facility constructed primarily for the
use of a Division I, II or III college or university that is a member of the
National Collegiate Athletic Association, or its successor, and used as a
football, basketball, baseball, soccer or other Division I, II or III sports
stadium which holds a special license to sell wine pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code § 60-8-3, in the designated areas of sale and consumption of
wine and other restrictions established by that section and the terms of the
special license issued thereunder.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means, for a
consideration, and shall include all sales made by a principal, proprietor,
agent or employee.
   SELLING. Includes solicitation or receipt of orders; possession for sale;
and possession with intent to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by distillation and mixed with
potable water and other substances in solution and includes brandy, rum,
whiskey, cordials and gin.
   STATE LIQUOR STORE. A store established and operated by the Commission under
this subchapter for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original package for
consumption off the premises.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits, or other agricultural products, containing sugar.
   WINERY. An establishment where wine is manufactured or in any way prepared.
(W. Va. Code § 60-1-5)
(Prior Code, § 521.01)
§ 111.02 CHAPTER NOT APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN USES BY PHYSICIANS, DRUGGISTS AND
OTHERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not prevent:
   (A)   A physician from prescribing the use of alcoholic liquors when
necessary for a bona fide patient;
   (B)   A druggist from selling, upon a prescription properly issued by a
physician, alcoholic liquors for medicinal purposes;
   (C)   A physician, dentist or veterinarian, in the legitimate practice of
his or her profession, from using and administering alcoholic liquors;
   (D)   Hospitals, sanitariums or that division of any institution which is
regularly conducted as a hospital, dispensary or infirmary from using or
administering alcoholic liquors to bona fide patients. Institutions and the
divisions thereof provided in this section may carry a stock of alcoholic
liquors sufficient for this purpose; and
   (E)   Religious organizations from using wine for sacramental purposes.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-5) (Prior Code, § 521.02)
§ 111.03 PROHIBITED ACTS GENERALLY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Manufacture or sell in this town, without a license, any alcoholic
liquor except as permitted by W. Va. Code Chapter 60;
   (B)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
license, except as permitted by W. Va. Code Chapter 60;
   (C)   Sell or tender without a license any alcoholic liquor other than
provided by W. Va. Code Article Chapter 60, Article 6;
   (D)   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug, methyl
alcohol, crude, unrectified or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or any other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
   (E)   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in which
alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in this state;
   (F)   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in this town except in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
   (G)   Distribute, deal in, process or use crowns, stamps or seals required
under the authority of W. Va. Code Chapter 60, except in accordance with the
rules and regulations prescribed by the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Control
Commissioner;
   (H)   Manufacture or sell, aid or abet in the manufacture or sale, possess,
transport or ship, use or in any other manner provide or furnish powdered
alcohol;
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-7)
   (I)   Manufacture, sell, give or offer to make a sale or gift of, transport
or otherwise possess any alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer except as
permitted by W. Va. Code Chapters 11 and 60; and
   (J)   Whoever violates divisions (A) to (H) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor for a first offense.
(Prior Code, § 521.03)
§ 111.04 UNLAWFUL SALE OR POSSESSION BY ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (A)   No person licensed under W. Va. Code Chapter 60 shall:
      (1)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors of a kind other
than that which the license or W. Va. Code Chapter 60 authorizes him or her to
sell;
      (2)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve beer to which wine, spirits or
alcohol has been added;
      (3)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve wine to which other alcoholic
spirits have been added, otherwise than as required in the manufacture of the
wine under rules of the Commission;
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-8)
      (4)   (a)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors or
nonintoxicating beer to a person who is:
            1.   Less than 21 years of age;
            2.   An habitual drunkard;
            3.   Intoxicated;
            4.   Addicted to the use of any controlled substance as defined by
W. Va. Code Chapter 60A; and
            5.   Mentally incompetent.
         (b)   It shall be a defense to a violation of division (A)(4)(a)1. of
this section if the seller shows that the purchaser:
            1.   Produced written evidence which showed his or her age to be at
least the required age for purchase and which bore a physical description of
the person named on the writing which reasonably described the purchaser; or
            2.   Produced evidence of other facts that reasonably indicated at
the time of sale that the purchaser was at least the required age.
(W. Va. Code §§ 60-3-22; 60-6-8)
      (5)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors except as
authorized by his or her license;
      (6)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve alcoholic liquors other than by the
drink, poured from the alcoholic liquors original container: provided, that
under certain requirements exceptions to liquor by the drink are as follows:
         (a)   A private club licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq.,
that is in good standing with the Commissioner and has paid a $1,000 on-
premises only bottle service fee to the Commissioner, may sell or serve liquor
by the bottle to two or more persons for consumption on the licensed premises
only, and any liquor bottle sold by such a private club shall be sold at retail
for personal use, and not for resale, to a person for not less than 300% of the
private club’s cost, and the liquor bottle shall be removed from the licensed
premises by any person or the licensee; and
         (b)   A Class A licensee licensed under W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq.,
may sell or serve wine by the bottle to two or more persons for consumption on
the licensed premises only, unless such licensee has obtained a license or
privilege authorizing other activity.
      (7)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve pre-mixed alcoholic liquor that is
not in the original container: provided, that a licensee may sell, furnish,
tender and serve up to 15 recipes of pre-mixed beverages consisting of
alcoholic liquors and nonalcoholic mixer, in a manner approved by the
Commissioner and in accord with public health and safety standards:
         (a)   The licensee shall use approved dispensing and storage equipment
which shall be cleaned at the end of the day. Failure to clean the dispensing
and storage equipment shall result in the immediate suspension or revocation of
the permit;
         (b)   The licensee shall sanitize and clean the pre-mixing beverage
storage equipment after each use or after each batch of the pre-mixed beverage
is made;
         (c)   The licensee shall maintain a written record reflecting the
cleaning and sanitizing of the storage and dispensing equipment for inspection
by the Commissioner and health inspectors; and
         (d)   A violation or violations of this division (A)(1) may result in
the suspension or revocation of the permit and may result in additional
sanctions under W. Va. Code Chapter 60 or §§ 11-16-1 et seq.
      (8)   Sell, furnish, tender or serve any alcoholic liquor when forbidden
by the provisions of this subchapter;
      (9)   Sell, possess, possess for sale, tender, serve, furnish or provide
any powdered alcohol; and
      (10)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license alcoholic
liquor other than that which he or she is authorized to sell, furnish, tender
or serve by such license or by this subchapter.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-8)
(Prior Code, § 521.04)
§ 111.05 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS FROM STATE AGENCY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Being under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency, misrepresent his or
her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which
is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquors from a state liquor store or an agency; or
   (B)   Knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under the age of 21
years to whom they are not related by blood or marriage, any alcoholic liquors
from whatever source.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3-22a) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 INTOXICATION OR DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES; ILLEGAL POSSESSION.
   (A)   A person shall not:
      (1)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer in a public place;
      (3)   Tender a drink of alcoholic liquor or nonintoxicating beer to
another person in a public place;
      (4)   (a)   Operate a business without a license issued under W. Va. Code
§§ 60-1-1 et seq., which knowingly facilitates the consumption of alcoholic
liquors in a public place by providing for on-site items such as cups, glasses,
ice and nonalcoholic beverages used to mix with alcoholic liquors,
refrigeration, or on-site storage of alcoholic liquors in a lounge area or
space for persons to gather, perhaps offering musical entertainment, exotic
dancing or other such nude entertainment, or other similar activity or
entertainment;
         (b)   Such business may be commonly known as a “bring your own
bottle”, “ bring your own booze” or “BYOB” establishments;
      (5)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of ten gallons, in
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage
Control Commissioner, without having first obtained written authority from the
Commissioner therefor; or
      (6)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 60.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest without a warrant and take the
following actions against a person who, in his or her presence, violates
division (A)(1) of this section:
      (1)   If there is some nonintoxicated person who will accept
responsibility for the intoxicated person, the officer may issue the
intoxicated person a citation specifying the date for appearance before a
judicial officer and release him or her to the custody of the individual
accepting responsibility: provided, that the issuance of a citation shall be
used whenever feasible;
      (2)   If it does not impose an undue burden on the officer, he or she
may, after issuance of the citation, transport the individual to the
individual’s present residence or arrange for the transportation;
      (3)   If the individual is incapacitated or the alternatives provided in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section are not possible, the officer shall
transport or arrange for transportation to the appropriate judicial officer as
defined by W. Va. Code § 27-1-17; or
      (4)   If the individual is incapacitated and, in the law enforcement
officer’s judgment, is in need of acute medical attention, that officer shall
arrange for transportation by ambulance or otherwise to a hospital emergency
room. The officer shall accompany the individual until he or she is discharged
from the emergency room or admitted to the hospital. If the individual is
released from the emergency room, the officer may proceed as described in
divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this section. If the individual is
admitted to the hospital, the officer shall issue a citation to the individual
specifying a date for appearance before a judicial officer.
   (C)   Upon presentment before the proper judicial officer, the law
enforcement officer serves as the chief complaining witness. The judicial
officer shall determine if there is probative evidence that the individual may
be guilty of the charge of public intoxication. If such evidence is not
presented, the charge shall be dismissed and the individual released. If
sufficient evidence is presented, the judicial officer shall issue a warrant
and establish bail or issue a summons to the individual. Once a warrant or
summons has been issued, the following actions may be taken:
      (1)   If the individual is no longer incapacitated, he or she may be
released;
      (2)   If the individual is still incapacitated but a nonintoxicated
person is available to accept responsibility for him or her, he or she may be
released to the responsible person; or
      (3)   If the individual is still incapacitated and no responsible person
is available, the judicial officer shall proceed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code Chapter 27, Article 6A.
   (D)   Any law enforcement officer may arrest and hold in custody, without a
warrant, until complaint may be made before a judicial officer and a warrant or
summons issued, any person who in the presence of the law enforcement officer
violates any one or more of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) of this section;
provided, that the law enforcement officer may use reasonable force to prevent
harm to himself or herself, the individual arrested or others in carrying out
the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-9) (Prior Code, § 521.05) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 ACTS PROHIBITED BY NON-INTOXICATING BEER LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or
employees, to sell, give, or dispense, or any individual to drink or consume,
in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected,
nonintoxicating beer on weekdays between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
except in private clubs licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter
60, Article 7, where the hours shall conform with the hours of sale of
alcoholic liquors;
      (2)   For any licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents or
employees to sell, furnish or give any nonintoxicating beer, as defined in this
subchapter, to any person visibly or noticeably intoxicated or to any person
known to be insane or known to be a habitual drunkard;
      (3)   For any licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents, or
employees to sell, furnish, or give any nonintoxicating beer as defined in this
subchapter to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   For any distributor to sell or offer to sell, or any retailer to
purchase or receive, any nonintoxicating beer as defined in this subchapter,
except for cash and a right of action shall not exist to collect any claims for
credit extended contrary to the provisions of this division (A). Nothing
contained in this section prohibits a licensee from crediting to a purchasing
person the actual price charged for packages or containers returned by the
original purchasing person as a credit on any sale, or from refunding to any
purchasing person the amount paid or deposited for the containers when title is
retained by the vendor: provided, that a distributor may accept an electronic
transfer of funds if the transfer of funds is initiated by an irrevocable
payment order on the invoiced amount for the nonintoxicating beer. The cost of
the electronic fund transfer shall be borne by the retailer and the distributor
shall initiate the transfer no later than noon of one business day after the
delivery;
      (5)   For any brewer or distributor to give, furnish, rent or sell any
equipment, fixtures, signs, supplies, or services directly or indirectly or
through a subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products
of the brewing industry at retail or to offer any prize, premium, gift or other
similar inducement, except advertising matter, including indoor electronic or
mechanical signs, of nominal value up to $25 per stock keeping unit, to either
trade or consumer buyers; provided, that a distributor may offer, for sale or
rent, tanks of carbonic gas: provided, however, that, in the interest of public
health and safety, a distributor may, independently or through a subsidiary or
affiliate, furnish, sell, install or maintain draught line equipment, supplies,
and cleaning services to a licensed retailer so long as the furnishing or sell
of draught line services may be negotiated at no less than actual cost:
provided further, that a distributor may furnish, rent or sell equipment,
fixtures, signs, services or supplies directly or indirectly or through a
subsidiary or affiliate to any licensee engaged in selling products of the
brewing industry at retail under the conditions and within the limitations as
prescribed in this section. Nothing contained in this section prohibits a
brewer from sponsoring any professional or amateur athletic event or from
providing prizes or awards for participants and winners in any events.
      (6)   For any brewer or distributor to sponsor any professional or
amateur athletic event or provide prizes or awards for participants and winners
when a majority of the athletes participating in the event are minors, unless
specifically authorized by the Commissioner;
      (7)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense nonintoxicating beer
through draught lines where the draught lines have not been cleaned at least
every two weeks in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commissioner, and
where written records of all cleanings are not maintained and available for
inspection;
      (8)   For any licensee to permit in his or her premises any lewd, immoral
or improper entertainment, conduct or practice;
      (9)   For any licensee except the holder of a license to operate a
private club issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. or a
holder of a license or a private wine restaurant issued under the provisions of
W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. to possess a federal license, tax receipt or
other permit entitling, authorizing or allowing the licensee to sell liquor or
alcoholic drinks other than nonintoxicating beer;
      (10)   For any licensee to obstruct the view of the interior of his or
her premises by enclosure, lattice, drapes or any means which would prevent
plain view of the patrons occupying the premises. The interior of all licensed
premises shall be adequately lighted at all times: provided, that provisions of
this division (A)(10) do not apply to the premises of a Class B retailer, the
premises of a private club licensed under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-
7-1 et seq., or the premises of a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq.;
      (11)   For any licensee to manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter,
possess or acquiesce in the sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic
liquors on the premises covered by a license or on premises directly or
indirectly used in connection with it: provided, that the prohibition contained
in this division (A)(11) with respect to the selling or possessing or to the
acquiescence in the sale, possession or consumption of alcoholic liquors is not
applicable with respect to the holder of a license to operate a private club
issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq. nor shall the
prohibition be applicable to a private wine restaurant licensed under the
provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 60-8-1 et seq. insofar as the private wine
restaurant is authorized to serve wine;
      (12)   For any retail licensee to sell or dispense nonintoxicating beer,
as defined in this subchapter, purchased or acquired from any source other than
a distributor, brewer or manufacturer licensed under the laws of this state;
      (13)   For any licensee to permit loud, boisterous or disorderly conduct
of any kind upon his or her premises or to permit the use of loud musical
instruments if either or any of the same may disturb the peace and quietude of
the community where the business is located: provided, that a licensee may have
speaker systems for outside broadcasting as long as the noise levels do not
create a public nuisance or violate local noise ordinances;
      (14)   For any person whose license has been revoked, as provided in this
subchapter, to obtain employment with any retailer within the period of one
year from the date of the revocation, or for any retailer to knowingly employ
that person within the specified time;
      (15)   For any distributor to sell, possess for sale, transport or
distribute nonintoxicating beer except in the original container;
      (16)   For any licensee to knowingly permit any act to be done upon the
licensed premises, the commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws
of this state or municipality;
      (17)   For any Class B retailer to permit the consumption of
nonintoxicating beer upon his or her licensed premises;
      (18)   For any Class A licensee, his, her, its or their servants, agents
or employees, or for any licensee by or through any servants, agents or
employees, to allow, suffer, or permit any person less than 18 years of age to
loiter in or upon any licensed premises; except, however, that the provisions
of this division (A)(18) do not apply where a person under the age of 18 years
is in or upon the premises in the immediate company of a parent or legal
guardian, or where and while a person under the age of 18 years is in or upon
the premises for the purpose of and actually making a lawful purchase of any
items or commodities sold, or for the purchase of and actually receiving any
lawful service rendered in the licensed premises, including the consumption of
any item of food, drink or soft drink lawfully prepared and served or sold for
consumption on the premises;
      (19)   For any distributor to sell, offer for sale, distribute, or
deliver any nonintoxicating beer outside the territory assigned to any
distributor by the brewer or manufacturer of nonintoxicating beer or to sell,
offer for sale, distribute or deliver nonintoxicating beer to any retailer
whose principal place of business or licensed premises is within the assigned
territory of another distributor of the nonintoxicating beer: provided, that
nothing in this section is considered to prohibit sales of convenience between
distributors licensed in this state where one distributor sells, transfers or
delivers to another distributor a particular brand or brands for sale at
wholesale; and
      (20)   For any licensee or any agent, servant or employee of any licensee
to knowingly violate any rule lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner in
accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 29A.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of W. Va. Code § 11-16,
including, but not limited to, any provision of this section, or any rule, or
order lawfully promulgated by the Commissioner, or who makes any false
statement concerning any material fact in submitting an application for a
license or for a renewal of a license or in any hearing concerning the
revocation of a license, or who commits any of the acts in this section
declared to be unlawful is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished for each offense by a fine of not less than $25, nor
more than $500, or confined in the county or regional jail for not less than 30
days nor more than six months, or by both fine and confinement. Magistrates
have concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Court and any other courts having
criminal jurisdiction in their county for the trial of all misdemeanors arising
under this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   A Class B licensee that:
         (a)   Has installed a transaction scan device on its licensed
premises; and
         (b)   1.   Can demonstrate that it requires each employee, servant or
agent to verify the age of any individual to whom nonintoxicating beer or
nonintoxicating craft beer is sold, furnished or given away by the use of the
transaction device is not subject to:
               a.   Any criminal penalties whatsoever, including those set
forth in division (B) of this section;
               b.   Any administrative penalties from the Commissioner; or
               c.   Any civil liability whatsoever for the improper sale,
furnishing or giving away of nonintoxicating beer or nonintoxicating craft beer
to an individual who is less than 21 years of age by one of his or her
employees, servants or agents.
            2.   Any agent, servant or employee who has improperly sold,
furnished, or given away nonintoxicating beer to an individual less than 21
years of age is subject to the criminal penalties of division (B) of this
section. Any agent, servant or employee who has improperly sold, furnish or
given away nonintoxicating beer to an individual less than 21 years of age is
subject to termination from employment, and the employer shall have no civil
liability for the termination.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a Class B licensee can demonstrate
that it requires each employee, servant or agent to verify the age of any
individual to whom nonintoxicating beer is sold by providing evidence:
         (a)   That is has developed a written policy which requires each
employee, servant or agent to verify the age of each individual to whom
nonintoxicating beer will be sold, furnished or given away;
         (b)   That it has communicated this policy to each employee, servant
or agent; and
         (c)   That it monitors the actions of its employees, servants or
agents regarding the sale, furnishing, or giving away of nonintoxicating beer
and that it has taken corrective action for any discovered noncompliance with
this policy.
      (3)   TRANSACTION SCAN means the process by which a person checks, by
means of a transaction scan device, the age and identity of the cardholder, and
TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE means any commercial device or combination of devices
used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an electronically
readable format the information enclosed on the magnetic strip or bar code of a
driver’s license or other governmental identity card.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing in this section nor any rule of the Commissioner shall
prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from employing any person who
is at least 18 years of age to serve in the licensee’s lawful employ, including
the sale or delivery of nonintoxicating beer as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods, or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores, and convenience stores, may employ persons who
are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age: provided, that the
person’s duties may include the sale of nonintoxicating beer or alcoholic
liquors only when directly supervised by a person 21 years of age or older;
provided, however, that the authorization to employ persons under the age of 18
years shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-18) (Prior Code, § 521.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF NON-INTOXICATING BEER.
   (A)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess or serve nonintoxicating beer.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of nonintoxicating beer.
Further, nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less
than 18 but at least 16 years of age from being employed by a licensee whose
principal business is the sale of food or consumer goods or the providing of
recreational activities, including, but not limited to, nationally franchised
fast food outlets, family-oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores,
discount stores, grocery stores and convenience stores: provided, that such
person shall not sell or deliver nonintoxicating beer.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing nonintoxicating beer when
he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of
any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West
Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of purchasing
nonintoxicating beer, shall misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose
present or offer any written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not
actually his or her own, or shall illegally attempt to purchase nonintoxicating
beer.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish nonintoxicating
beer to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom they are not related by blood
or marriage.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 ACTS PROHIBITED BY PRIVATE CLUB LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent, employee or member thereof,
on such licensee’s premises to:
      (1)   Sell, offer for sale, tender or serve any alcoholic liquors other
than by the drink poured from the original package or container, except as
authorized in §
111.04;
      (2)   (a)   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace, obscene,
lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or practice.
         (b)   A private resort hotel holding a license issued pursuant to W.
Va. Code §§ 60-7-1 et seq., may sell, tender or dispense nonintoxicating beer,
wine, or alcoholic liquors in or on the premises licensed under W. Va. Code §§
29-22A-1 et seq. and W. Va. Code §§ 29-22C-1 et seq., or W. Va. Code §§ 29-25-
1 et seq., during hours of operation authorized by W. Va. Code §§ 29-22A-1 et
seq., and W. Va. Code §§ 29-22C-1 et seq. or W. Va. Code §§ 29-25-1 et seq.;
      (3)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors for or to, or permit the
consumption of nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors on the
licensee’s premises, by any person less than 21 years of age;
      (4)   Sell, give away or permit the sale of, gift to or the procurement
of any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, for or to any person
known to be considered legally incompetent, or for or to any person who is
physically incapacitated due to consumption of nonintoxicating beer, wine or
alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs;
      (5)   Sell, give or dispense nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors in or on any licensed premises, or in any rooms directly connected
therewith between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays, Saturdays
and Sundays, or between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. in any county upon
approval as provided for in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3ss, on any Sunday;
      (6)   Permit the consumption by, or serve to, on the licensed premises
any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors, covered by this
subchapter, to any person who is less than 21 years of age;
      (7)   With the intent to defraud, alter, change or misrepresent the
quality, quantity or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
      (8)   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues-paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member;
      (9)   Sell, offer for sale, give away, facilitate the use of or allow the
use of carbon dioxide, cyclopropane, ethylene, helium or nitrous oxide for
purposes of human consumption except as authorized by the Commissioner;
      (10)   (a)   Employ any person who is less than 16 years of age in a
position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
to any person; or
         (b)   Employ any person who is between 16 years of age and younger
than 21 years of age who is not directly supervised by a person aged 21 or over
in a position where the primary responsibility for such employment is to sell,
furnish, tender, serve, or give nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
to any person.
      (11)   Violate any reasonable rule of the Commissioner.
   (B)   It is lawful for any licensee to advertise price and brand in any news
media or other means, outside of the licensee’s premises.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12) (Prior Code, § 521.07) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM PRIVATE CLUB.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall order, pay for, share the
cost of or attempt to purchase any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors from a licensee or consume any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors purchased from a private club licensee or possess any nonintoxicating
beer, wine or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee; provided, that
nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at least 18 years
of age from purchasing or possessing nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic
liquors when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and
control of any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or
the West Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is
conducting an investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of
the alcohol beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the
Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors from a private club licensee,
misrepresent his or her age, or for such purpose present or offer any written
evidence of age which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or
illegally attempt to purchase nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
from a licensee.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 years any nonintoxicating beer, wine or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12a) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 ACTS PROHIBITED BY WINE DEALERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a person registered under the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 60-8-6, or for a retailer to sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a licensed distributor or a farm winery as
defined in W. Va. Code § 60-1-5a;
      (2)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for by the provisions of W.
Va. Code Article 60-8, for a licensee under W. Va. Code Chapter 60, Article 8
to acquire, transport, possess for sale or sell wine other than in the original
package;
      (3)   For a licensee, his or her servants, agents or employees to sell,
furnish or give wine to any person less than 21 years of age or to a mentally
incompetent person or person who is physically incapacitated due to the
consumption of alcoholic liquor or the use of drugs: provided that the
provisions of W. Va. Code § 60-3A-25a shall apply to sales of wine;
      (4)   For a licensee to permit a person who is less than 18 years of age
to sell, furnish or give wine to any person, except as provided for in division
(A)(8) of this section;
      (5)   For a supplier or distributor to sell or deliver any brand of wine
purchased or acquired from any source other than the primary source of supply
of the wine which granted the distributor the right to sell such brand at
wholesale. For the purposes of this section, PRIMARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY means the
vintner of the wine, the importer of a foreign wine who imports the wine into
the United States, the owner of a wine at the time it becomes a marketable
product, the bottler of a wine, or an agent specifically authorized by any of
the above enumerated persons to make a sale of the wine to a West Virginia
distributor: provided, that no retailer shall sell or deliver wine purchased or
acquired from any source other than a distributor or farm winery licensed as
such in this State: provided, however, that nothing herein is considered to
prohibit sales of convenience between distributors licensed in this state
wherein one such distributor sells, transfers or delivers to another such
distributor a particular brand or brands for sale at wholesale of which brand
or brands such other distributor has been authorized by a licensed supplier to
distribute. The Commissioner shall promulgate legislative rules necessary to
carry out the provision of this division (A)(5); and
      (6)   For a person to violate any rule promulgated by the Commissioner
under W. Va. Code Article 60-8.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this subchapter, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 18 years of age to serve in any licensee’s
lawful employment, including the sale of wine or distribution of wine on behalf
of a winery, farm winery, farm entity, supplier or distributor under the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   With the prior approval of the Commissioner, a licensee may employ
persons who are less than 18 years of age but at least 16 years of age;
provided, that the person’s duties may include the sale of nonintoxicating beer
or wine only when directly supervised by a person 21 years of age or older;
provided, however, that the authorization to employ persons under 18 years of
age shall be clearly indicated on the licensee’s license; provided, further,
that nothing in this subchapter, nor any rule or regulation of the
Commissioner, shall prevent or be considered to prohibit any licensee from
employing any person who is at least 21 years of age for the ordering and
delivery of wine when licensed for the ordering and delivery of wine under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8-20) (Prior Code, § 521.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF WINE.
   (A)   (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase, consume,
sell, possess or serve wine or other alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
any licensee, which may include the sale or delivery of wine. Further, nothing
in this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Commissioner, shall prevent
or be deemed to prohibit any person who is less than 18 but at least 16 years
of age from being employed by a licensee whose principal business is the sale
of food or consumer goods or the providing of recreational activities,
including, but not limited to, nationally franchised fast food outlets, family-
oriented restaurants, bowling alleys, drug stores, discount stores, grocery
stores and convenience stores; provided, that such person shall not sell or
deliver wine or alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing wine or alcoholic liquor
when he or she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control
of any member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West
Virginia Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an
investigation or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol
beverage control statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years, for the purpose of purchasing
wine or other alcoholic liquors from a licensee, shall misrepresent his or her
age, or for such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is
false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to
purchase wine or other alcoholic liquors.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish wine or other
alcoholic liquors from any source to anyone under the age of 21 years to whom
they are not related by blood or marriage.
(W. Va. Code § 60-8-20a) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE FROM RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is 18 or over but under the age of 21 years shall
purchase, consume, sell, serve or possess alcoholic liquor. Any person who is
under 18 years who purchases, consumes, sells, serves or possesses alcoholic
liquor is guilty of a status offense, as that term is defined in W. Va. Code §
49-1-206, and, upon adjudication therefor, shall be referred to the Department
of Health and Human Resources for services, as provided in W. Va. Code § 49-3-
101.
      (2)   Nothing is this section, nor any rule or regulation of the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner, shall prevent or be deemed to prohibit any
person who is at least 18 years of age from serving in the lawful employment of
a licensee which includes the sale and serving of alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (A) shall prohibit a person who is at
least 18 years of age from purchasing or possessing alcoholic liquor when he or
she is acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any
member of a state, federal or local law enforcement agency or the West Virginia
Alcohol Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation
or other activity relating to the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall, for the purpose of
purchasing liquor from a retail licensee, misrepresent his or her age, or for
such purpose present or offer any written evidence of age which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own, or illegally attempt to purchase
liquor from a retail licensee.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly buy for, give to or furnish to anyone under
the age of 21 to whom he or she is not related by blood or marriage any liquor
from whatever source.
   (D)   No person while on the premises of a retail outlet shall consume
liquor or break the seal on any package or bottle of liquor.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3A-24) Penalty, see §
111.99
IMPOSING TAX
§ 111.25 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code § 8-13-
7 and other applicable provisions of law
(Ord. passed 12-10-1979)
§ 111.26 PURPOSE, FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined and found that intoxicating liquor is
sold and purchased at a store located within the corporate limits of the town
under the authority of the state’s Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, and
which purchases may be subjected to a municipal tax of 3% of the purchase price
and added to and collected with the purchase price by the said Commissioner and
remitted to the municipality.
   (B)   The additional revenue generated by such tax is necessary to the town
to provide for police and other municipal services for the protection of the
welfare safety and morals of the citizens of the town and public generally.
(Ord. passed 12-10-1979)
§ 111.27 LEVY AND IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   It is hereby declared the tax of 3% of the purchase price is hereby levied
and imposed upon all purchases of intoxicating liquors from the Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner within the corporate limits of the town and
levied upon the purchaser and added to and collected with the price of purchase
by the Commissioner and remitted to the town as provided by the provisions of
W. Va. Code § 8-13-7.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 12-10-1979)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 111.40 MANUFACTURE AND TRANSPORT OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, within the
corporate limits of the town to:
   (A)   Manufacture or sell, without a state license therefore, any alcoholic
liquor;
   (B)   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor without a
state license therefor;
   (C)   Transport in and upon any highway, street, alley or other public way
within the town, in his or her possession or in his or her baggage, alcoholic
liquor, lawfully acquired, in a quantity in excess of one gallon;
   (D)   Appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition;
   (E)   Drink alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle upon any highway, street,
alley or other public way, or in any public garage, within said corporate
limits of the town;
   (F)   Drink alcoholic liquor in any public place;
   (G)   Tender or offer a drink of alcoholic liquor to another person in a
public place;
   (H)   Possess any alcoholic liquor, in any quantity, which was manufactured
or acquired in violation of the provisions of Chapter Sixty of the 1949
Michie’s Code of West Virginia;
   (I)   Sell, barter, trade, give or dispose or attempt to sell, barter,
trade, give or dispose of alcoholic liquors to any person who is:
      (1)   Less than 21 years of age;
      (2)   An habitual drunkard;
      (3)   Intoxicated or is obviously in an intoxicated condition;
      (4)   Addicted to the use of narcotic drugs; and
      (5)   Mentally incompetent.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1955) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation holding a license
to sell non-intoxicating beer from the state with the premises for which said
license is granted lying within the corporate limits of the town to:
   (A)   Sell, give or dispose or permit his or her agents, servants or
employees to sell, give or dispose, in or on any licensed premises or in any
rooms directly connected therewith, nonintoxicating beer between the hours of
midnight and 7:00 a.m. the following morning on week days or before 1:00 p.m.
in the afternoon of any Sunday;
   (B)   To sell, furnish or give or permit his or her agents, servants or
employees to sell, furnish or give any non-intoxicating beer to any person
visibly or noticeably intoxicated, or toll any insane persons, or to any
habitual drunkard, or to any person under the age of 18 years;
   (C)   To permit in his or her premises any lewd, immoral or improper
entertainment, conduct or practice;
   (D)   To obstruct the view of the interior of his or her premises by
enclosure, lattice, drapes or any means which would prevent plain view of the
patrons occupying such premises. The interior of such premises shall be
adequately lighted at all times;
   (E)   To manufacture, import, sell, trade, barter, possess or acquiesce in
the sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic liquors on the premises
covered by such license or on premises directly or indirectly used in
connection therewith;
   (F)   To permit any loud, boisterous or disorderly conduct of any kind upon
his or her premises or to permit the use of loud, musical instruments if either
or any of the same may disturb the peace and quietude of the town. No juke box
or other musical instruments of like character shall be played or operated
between the hours of midnight and 7:00 a.m. the following morning on week days
or before 1:00 a.m in the afternoon of any Sunday; and
   (G)   To permit any act to be done upon the licensed premises, the
commission of which constitutes a crime under the laws of the state or of the
town.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1955) Penalty, see §
111.99
ANNUAL FEE FOR PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 111.55 FEES.
   (A)   A licensee who has obtained a state license pursuant to W. Va. Code
Chapter 60, Article 7, as amended, shall pay an annual license fee, or partial
license fee, as the case may be, as follows:
 
For a licensee having 100 members or less                     $500
For a licensee having more than 100, but less than 300 member $750
For a licensee having 300 or more, but less than 600          $1,000
For a licensee having 600 or more members                     $1,500
 
   (B)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1 of any years,
and to expire on June 30 of such year, shall be one-half of those hereinabove
set forth.
   (C)   (1)   All such fees shall be paid in the office of Town Recorder on or
before June 30 for the ensuing fiscal year, whereupon a license shall be issued
by the Town Recorder.
      (2)   Said license shall be on such form or forms as prescribed by said
Recorder.
   (D)   In the event that any such license provided from the state, or any
agency thereof is revoked; then in such event, any license provided by reason
of this section will be likewise revoked by said Recorder without the necessity
of further proceedings hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
111.05(A),
111.12(B) or
111.13(B) shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not more than 72
hours, or both, or, in lieu of such fine and imprisonment, may, for the first
offense, be placed on probation for not more than one year.
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
111.05(B),
111.12(C) or
111.13(D) shall be fined not more than $100, or imprisoned for not more than
ten days, or both.
(W. Va. Code §§ 11-16-19, 60-3-22a, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
111.06(A)(1) shall be sentenced by a judicial officer in accordance with the
following options:
      (1)   Upon first offense, a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100.
If the individual, prior to conviction, agrees to voluntarily attend an alcohol
education program of not more than six hours duration at the nearest community
mental health-mental retardation center, the judicial officer may delay
sentencing until the program is completed and upon completion may dismiss the
charges;
      (2)   Upon conviction for a second offense, a fine of not less than $5
nor more than $100 and not more than 60 days in jail or completion of not less
than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental
health-mental retardation center;
      (3)   (a)   Upon third and subsequent convictions, a fine of not less
than $5 nor more than $100 and not less than five nor more than 30 days in jail
or a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100 and completion of not less
than five hours of alcoholism counseling at the nearest community mental
health-mental retardation center: provided, that three convictions for public
intoxication within the preceding six months is considered evidence of
alcoholism.
         (b)   For the educational counseling programs described in this
division (D)(3) the community mental health-mental retardation center may
charge each participant its usual and customary fee and shall certify in
writing to the referring judicial officer the completion or failure to complete
the prescribed program for each individual; and
      (4)   A person charged with a violation of §
111.06(A)(1) who is an alcoholic shall be found not guilty by reason of
addiction and proper disposition made pursuant to W. Va. Code Chapter 27,
Article 5 or Chapter 27, Article 6A.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
111.06(A)(2) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100; and upon a
second or subsequent conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (F)   Whoever violates §
111.06(A)(3) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
   (G)   Whoever violates §
111.06(A)(4) or (A)(5) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense, he or she is guilty of a
felony and, shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 60-6-9)
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates §
111.08(A) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 or shall be confined in
jail, or, in the case of a juvenile, a detention facility, for a period not to
exceed 72 hours, or both fined and confined or, in lieu of such fine and
confinement, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a period
not to exceed one year.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
111.08(B) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100 or shall be confined in
jail, or in the case of a juvenile, a juvenile detention facility, for a period
not to exceed 72 hours, or both such fine and confinement or, in lieu of such
fine and confinement, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a
period not exceeding one year.
      (3)   Whoever violates §
111.08(C) shall be fined an amount not to exceed $100 or shall be confined in
jail for a period not to exceed ten days, or both such fine and confinement.
   (I)   Whoever violates §
111.09 shall be fined not less than $500 or more than $1,000, or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12)
   (J)   Whoever violates §
111.10(A) or (B) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than
30 days, or both, and in addition may, for the first offense be placed on
probation for a period not to exceed one year.
   (K)   Whoever violates §
111.10(C) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-7-12a)
   (L)   Whoever violates §§
111.12(A) or 111.13(A) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more
than 72 hours, or both, or in lieu thereof, may, for the first offense, be
placed on probation for a period not to exceed one year.
(W. Va. Code § 11-16-19, 60-8-20a, 60-3A-24)
   (M)   Whoever violates §
111.13(C) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than ten
days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 60-3A-24)
(Prior Code, § 521.99)
   (N)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of §§
111.40 and
111.41 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished for each offense
by a fine of not less than $10 nor more
than $500, or imprisoned in the bounty jail for not less than five days nor
more than 30 days, or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. passed 9-7-1955)
CHAPTER 112: HAWKERS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITATION
Section
Peddlers
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Exemptions; exemption receipt
   
112.04   License fees; display
   
112.05   Violations
Vendor Prohibition
   
112.20   Short title
   
112.21   Purposes and findings
   
112.22   Determinations
   
112.23   Violations
Abusive Solicitation
   
112.35   Short title
   
112.36   Purpose
   
112.37   Definitions
   
112.38   Locations
   
112.39   Exemption
   
112.40   Car stop donations
 
   
112.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS
§ 112.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Peddlers Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER or PEDDLER. Any person who shall carry goods, wares or merchandise
from place to place, either in person or by agent or employee, and sell, for
delivery at the same time, any such goods, wares or merchandise to any
purchaser, at wholesale or retail, and any person who shall solicit for the
purpose of rendering any service, shall be deemed a hawker or peddler under
this subchapter.
   SALE. Includes both sales for money payment or for barter, and offers to
make any such sale and offers to render any service or the rendering of any
service.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS; EXEMPTION RECEIPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any person who
sells any goods, wares or merchandise to be delivered in the future, or to any
of the following who offer immediate delivery of the goods, wares or
merchandise being sold:
      (1)   Any person engaged in the maintenance or operation of a retail
merchandise store to exchange goods, wares or merchandise from such store for
agricultural, horticultural, or grazing products or to resell any such products
received in due course of such business, nor to any other retail business
concern, established and operating continuously for one year or more within
this town in the sale of any product or products over regular routes;
      (2)   Any wholesaler or jobber selling soft drinks or nonintoxicating
beer for which he or she is duly licensed by this town;
      (3)   Any person who sells petroleum products, ice, wood, meat, milk, ice
cream, bread, cakes, pies, and other bakery products, butter and eggs,
manufactured, grown, or produced by any such person and not purchased by him or
her for resale;
      (4)   Any sales by societies, groups or organizations acting for
charitable, religious or benevolent purposes;
      (5)   Any agent or salesman selling manufactured products, except green
groceries and canned or bottled fruit products, produced by his or her
employer, and who sells such items to retail dealers for the purpose of resale;
      (6)   Any person having a stock of goods or merchandise, or manufacturing
or processing plant kept or operating at a fixed situs in the town, and
declared for taxation in the county where located, and using a vehicle over a
fixed route for the purpose of selling or distributing at wholesale his or her
merchandise, stock of goods or plant products; or
      (7)   Any sale of goods held within the yard of a private property owner
located within the town.
   (B)   Any person exempt from license as provided in this section shall
obtain from the town a license receipt, without cost, showing that he or she is
so exempt, which shall be effective for the period as provided for annual
licenses in this chapter; but to obtain such license receipt, he or she shall
make an affidavit and produce such other evidence as to the fact entitling him
or her to such exemption as the town, in its discretion, may require, which
shall be on a form to be prescribed by the Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEES; DISPLAY.
   (A)   The annual license fee to act as a hawker or peddler is based upon the
following:
      (1)   If the person licensed travels without a vehicle, the fee shall be
$10;
      (2)   If the person travels with a motor vehicle of not more than one-
half-ton capacity, the fee is $15;
      (3)   If he or she travels with a motor vehicle of more than one-half-ton
capacity, but not exceeding one-ton capacity, the fee is $50;
      (4)   If he or she travels with a motor vehicle of more than one-ton
capacity, but not exceeding two-tons-capacity, the fee is $100; and
      (5)   If he or she travels with a motor vehicle of more than two-ton
capacity, the fee is $150, plus $100 for each additional ton or fraction of a
ton over two-ton capacity.
   (B)   (1)   The person licensed shall pay at the same rate for each and
every motor vehicle so used.
      (2)   Such person shall carry his or her license in some conspicuous
place in his or her vehicle or about his or her person.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
§ 112.05 VIOLATIONS.
   A person who violates the payment of the above for a hawker/peddler license,
shall be removed from the premises where he or she is attempting to sell by the
town’s Police Department.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2010)
VENDOR PROHIBITION
§ 112.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Vendor Prohibition
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2014)
§ 112.21 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a procedure followed
by the town for the prohibition of hawkers, peddlers and vendors on the rights-
of-way of State Route 10, except for those rights-of-way abutting private
property.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2014)
§ 112.22 DETERMINATIONS.
   The Town Council hereby implements the following procedures for the
prohibition of hawkers, peddlers and vendors.
   (A)   Effective July 1, 2014, there shall be no hawkers or peddlers or
vendors on any right-of-way of State Route 10 within the town, except those
rights-of-way which adjoin privately owned property.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 2014, no hawker or peddler or vendor licenses shall
be issued by the town and any ordinance of the town which currently allows such
hawker or peddler or vendor licenses to be issued is hereby repealed.
   (C)   No right-of-way on State Route 10, within the town, that adjoins
privately owned property will be effected by this subchapter, other than that
the following requirements must be met for a hawker or peddler or vendor to
transact business on a right-of-way that adjoins privately owned property:
      (1)   Any hawkers/peddlers/vendors who transact business on a right-of-
way that adjoins privately owned property must purchase a business license from
the town effective for the time period that the business is being transacted;
      (2)   Any hawkers/peddlers/vendors who transact business on a right-of-
way that adjoins privately owned property must have written permission from the
property owner to be transacting business on that right-of-way; and
      (3)   Any hawkers/peddlers/vendors who transact business on a right-of-
way that adjoins privately owned property must follow the set back ordinance of
the town.
   (D)   This subchapter will not effect the rights-of-way on Route 971 or
Route 85.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2014)
§ 112.23 VIOLATIONS.
   Any hawkers/peddlers/vendors who do not comply with this prohibition
ordinance will not be allowed to transact business within the town on the
rights-of-way of State Route 10 that adjoin either private property or non-
private property.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2014)
ABUSIVE SOLICITATION
§ 112.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Abusive Solicitation
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2015)
§ 112.36 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to impose reasonable place and manner
limitations on solicitation, as defined herein, in order to protect the safety
of the general public against abusive solicitation while respecting the
constitutional rights of free speech.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2015)
§ 112.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUSIVE SOLICITATION. Doing one or more of the following while engaging in
solicitation or immediately thereafter:
      (1)   Coming closer than three feet to the person solicited;
      (2)   Blocking or impending the passage of the person solicited;
      (3)   Following the person solicited by proceeding behind, ahead or
alongside of him or her after the person declines to make a donation;
      (4)   Threatening the person solicited with physical harm or gesture;
      (5)   Abusing the person solicited with words which are offensive and
inherently likely to provoke an immediate violent reaction;
      (6)   Touching the solicited person without the solicited person’s
consent; or
      (7)   Engaging in solicitation activity in any prohibited places
specified in §
112.38.
   DONATION. A gift of money or other item of value and shall also include the
purchase of an item for an amount far exceeding its value under circumstances
where a reasonable person would understand that the purchase is in substance a
gift.
   SOLICITATION. Any request made in person seeking an immediate donation of
money or other item of value. A person shall be deemed to be in the act of
SOLICITATION when he or she passively displays a sign or gives any other
indication that he or she is seeking donations without addressing his or her
solicitation to any specific person, other than in response to an inquiry by
that person.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2015)
§ 112.38 LOCATIONS.
   Solicitations shall be prohibited when the person solicited is in the
following locations:
   (A)   A vehicle on public streets or alley ways, except those who obtain a
permit per §
112.40;
   (B)   Public parking lots or structures;
   (C)   Outdoor dining areas of restaurants or other dining establishments
serving food for immediate consumption; or
   (D)   Within 50 feet of an automated teller machine.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.39 EXEMPTION.
   Exempt from this subchapter is any instance of charitable solicitation,
which shall be defined as any group or individual seeking solicitations by
permit from the town.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2015)
§ 112.40 CAR STOP DONATIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Car
Stop for Donations Ordinance”.
   (B)   Declaration of car stops for donations as a public nuisance and safety
hazard. The town hereby finds and declares that maintenance of car stops for
donations constitutes a public nuisance and a safety hazard, the abatement of
which shall be provided as set forth herein.
   (C)   Car stop for donations prohibited except under certain permitted
times.
      (1)   There will be a permitting system utilized by the town, with a
permit application, which should require the name of the organization that
wants to make the car stop, what the money will be used for, and show proof of
charitable status.
      (2)   The permit application will have to be approved by the Town
Recorder, who will be the licensing officer.
      (3)   Any organization can request the scheduling of a car stop up to six
months in advance.
      (4)   The only times possible for such car stops is on Saturdays, from
12:00 to 5:00 p.m.
      (5)   The only location designated for such stops is in front of Burke
and Herbert Bank.
      (6)   There is a limit of one stop per organization per calendar month.
Unless the stop is performed, it does not count as the one scheduled stop per
month.
      (7)   There are to be no requests for donations on the sidewalk.
      (8)   Anyone must be 18 years of age. No children can request donations,
and no children are allowed in the highway while donations are being requested.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2013; Ord. passed 2- -2025) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who engages in abusive solicitation as defined in §
112.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction shall be fined an
amount not to exceed $500 or community service for a period not to exceed one
month, or both.
   (C)   Any person who is found guilty of violating §
112.40 will be removed by the town’s Police Department, and the donations will
be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2013; Ord. passed 10-20-2015)
CHAPTER 113: GAMING DEVICES
Section
   
113.01   Prohibition
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PROHIBITION.
   Any person who shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an A,
B, C, E or O table, or faro bank, or keno table, or any other gaming table or
device that might come under any denomination for which has no name, whether
the gaming table, bank or device be played with cards, dice or otherwise, or
shall be a partner or concerned in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such
table, bank or gaming device of any character, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Such tables, faro bank, or gaming device, and all money staked or
exhibited to allure persons to bid at such table, or upon such gaming devices,
may be seized by order of the Mayor under a warrant issued by said Mayor and
the money so seized shall be forfeited to the town and paid into the treasury
of the town, and the table, faro bank or gaming device shall be burned.
(Ord. eff. 1-7-1957) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
113.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be
confined in jail not less than ten nor more than 30 days and be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500.
   (B)   If any person knowingly permit a gaming table, bank or device such as
mentioned in §
113.01, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his or her operation, he or
she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be confined
in jail not more than 30 days and be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$500.
   (C)   If any person shall act as a doorkeeper, guard or watch, or employ
another person to act as such, for a keeper or an exhibitor of any such gaming
table, bank or device, or shall resist, or by any means or device prevent,
hinder or delay the lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor or the seizure of
the table, bank or device, or any exhibits staked thereat, or shall unlawfully
take the same from the person seizing it, he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be confined in jail not more than 30
days and be fined not exceeding $500.
   (D)   If any person bet or play at any such gaming table, bank or device as
is mentioned in §
113.01, or if, at any hotel or tavern, or other public place, or place of
public resort, he or she play at any game except bowls, chess or backgammon,
draughts, or a licensed game, or bet on the sides of those who play in any
game, whether the game be permitted or licensed or not, he or she shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $5
nor more than $100, and shall, if required by the court, give security for his
or her good behavior for one year, or, in default thereof, may be imprisoned in
the county jail not more than 30 days.
   (E)   If any person at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or
other thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or
other things of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game, he
or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined
not less than $5 nor more than $300, and, shall, if required by the court, give
security for his or her good behavior for one year, and in default of the
payment of such fine and the cost and the execution of such bond, if such bond
be required, shall be imprisoned in the county jail not less than ten nor more
than 30 days.
   (F)   If the keeper of a hotel or tavern permit unlawful gaming at his or
her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor or other place appurtenant thereto
or held therein, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $20 nor more than $100, and, shall forfeit
his or her license, and shall give security for his or her good behavior for
one year or, in default of such security, be imprisoned in the county jail not
more than 30 days.
   (G)   In a prosecution under the proceeding section if the gambling be
proved, it shall be presumed it was permitted by the keeper of the hotel,
unless it appear that he or she did not know of or suspect such gambling, or
that he or she endeavored to prevent it and gave information of it, with the
names of the players, to the Mayor of the town or the Chief of Police.
(Ord. eff. 1-7-1957)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCES
      
132.   GAMBLING
      
133.   INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
      
134.   MINORS
      
135.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
      
137.   RAILROADS
      
138.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Refusal to aid officer
   
130.02   Obstructing or giving false information to an officer; fleeing
   
130.03   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
130.04   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
130.05   Attempts
   
130.06   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
130.07   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
130.08   Concealing evidence
   
130.09   Failure to testify
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse or neglect to assist him or her in the execution of his or her office in
a criminal case, in the preservation of the peace or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-14) (Prior Code, § 501.01)
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO AN OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (A)   A person who by threats, menaces, acts or otherwise forcibly or
illegally hinders or obstructs or attempts to hinder or obstruct a law
enforcement officer, probation officer, parole officer, courthouse security
officer, correctional officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or
Assistant Fire Marshal acting in his or her official capacity is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500 or confined in jail not more than one year, or both fined and
confined.
   (B)   A person who, with intent to impede or obstruct a law enforcement
officer, the State Fire Marshal or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal
in the conduct of an investigation of a misdemeanor or felony offense,
knowingly and willfully makes a materially false statement is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $200 or confined in jail for five days, or both fined and confined.
The provisions of this section do not apply to statements made by a spouse,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, sibling, half-sibling, child, stepchild or
grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the person under
investigation. Statements made by the person under investigation may not be
used as the basis for prosecution under this division (B). For purposes of this
division (B), LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER does not include a watchman, a member of
the West Virginia State Police or college security personnel who is not a
certified law enforcement officer. A criminal charge under this division (B)
relating to the investigation of a misdemeanor offense may not be used to seek
or support a secured bond or pre-trial incarceration.
   (C)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from a law enforcement officer, probation
officer, parole officer, courthouse security officer, correctional officer, the
State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal acting in
his or her official capacity who is attempting to make a lawful arrest of or to
lawfully detain the person, and who knows or reasonably believes that the
officer is attempting to arrest or lawfully detain him or her, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500 or confined in jail not more than one year, or both fined and
confined.
   (D)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from
a law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting in his
or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible
signal directing the person to stop is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 and
shall be confined in jail not more than one year.
   (E)   A person who intentionally flees or attempts to flee in a vehicle from
a law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting in his
or her official capacity after the officer has given a clear visual or audible
signal directing the person to stop, and who causes damage to the real or
personal property of a person during or resulting from his or her flight, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $1,000 nor more than $3,000 and shall be confined in jail for not less
than six months nor more than one year.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, the term VEHICLE includes any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle or snowmobile as those
terms are defined in W. Va. Code § 17A-1-1, whether or not it is being operated
on a public highway at the time and whether or not it is licensed by the state.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, the terms FLEE, FLEEING and FLIGHT do
not include a person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing
the pursuing law enforcement officer to maintain appropriate surveillance, for
the purpose of complying with the officer’s direction to stop.
   (H)   (1)   No person, with the intent to purposefully deprive another
person of emergency services, may interfere with or prevent another person from
making an emergency communication, which a reasonable person would consider
necessary under the circumstances, to law enforcement, fire or emergency
medical services personnel.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (H), the term INTERFERE WITH OR
PREVENT includes, but is not limited to, seizing, concealing, obstructing
access to or disabling or disconnecting a telephone, telephone line, or
equipment or other communication device.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (H), the term EMERGENCY
COMMUNICATION means communication to transmit warnings or other information
pertaining to a crime, fire, accident, power outage, disaster, or risk of
injury or damage to a person or property.
      (4)   A person who violates this division (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for a period of not
less than one day nor more than one year or shall be fined not less than $250
nor more than $2,000 or both fined and confined.
      (5)   A person who is convicted of a second offense under this division
(H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined
in jail for not less than three months nor more than one year or fined not less
than $500 nor more than $3,000, or both fined and confined.
      (6)   A person who is convicted of a third or subsequent offense under
this division (H) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be confined in jail not less than six months nor more than one year or
fined not less than $500 nor more than $4,000, or both fined and confined.
      (7)   In determining the number of prior convictions for purposes of
imposing punishment under this division (H), the court shall disregard all such
prior convictions occurring more than ten years prior to the offense in
question.
   (I)   (1)   A person is guilty of filing a false complaint against a law
enforcement officer when, knowing the information reported is false or
baseless, he or she:
         (a)   Initiates a false complaint of improper action of a law
enforcement officer relating to an incident or other circumstance;
         (b)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with conduct of law
enforcement officers which did not occur, does not in fact exist; or
         (c)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur.
      (2)   Any person who violates this division (I) is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000
or confined in jail not more than six months, or both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17) (Prior Code, § 501.02)
§ 130.03 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed
any false information, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, railroad car,
airplane or other place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being made
or to be made to so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive device.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of division (A) of this section for a second
offense or whose violation of division (A) results in another suffering serious
bodily injury shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17) (Prior Code, § 501.04)
§ 130.04 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official or be under the order or
direction of any such person.
      (2)   No person not a law enforcement officer or law enforcement official
shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or the badge or other
insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to deceive another
person.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, the terms LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W. Va. Code § 30-
29-1 except that such terms shall not include members of the Department of
Homeland Security and shall not include individuals hired by non-public
entities for the provision of security services.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any
of the duties, functions or powers of a municipal officer.
      (2)   No person not a member of the Fire Department, for the purpose of
such false representation, shall wear a uniform or part thereof similar to the
uniform worn by a member of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 501.05)
§ 130.05 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense, but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99 if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W. Va. Code § 61-11-8) (Prior Code, § 501.06)
§ 130.06 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for the
following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person
being cited will appear to answer the charge:
   (A)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided, that the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself, herself or others; and
   (B)   (1)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of
investigating whether such person has committed or attempted to commit
shoplifting, pursuant to §
136.01 of this code.
      (2)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
      (3)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall be issued. When a physical arrest is
made and a citation is issued in relation to the same offense, the officer
shall mark on the citation in the place specified for court appearance date the
word “arrested” in lieu of the date of court appearance.
(W. Va. Code § 62-1-5(a)) (Prior Code, § 501.07)
§ 130.07 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when
knowing the information reported, conveyed or circulated is false or baseless,
he or she:
      (1)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other
emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles or other emergency apparatus might be summoned; or
      (2)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official
agency or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies
involving danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness or other
emergency in which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will result
or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue
vehicles or other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur,
does not in fact exist; or
      (3)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged
occurrence of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an
allegedly impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact
about to occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident
or to the alleged implication of some person therein; or
      (4)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm
system or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue
vehicles or other emergency vehicles.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
emergency drill.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-20) (Prior Code, § 501.08)
§ 130.08 CONCEALING EVIDENCE.
   No person knowing of the commission of an offense shall take any money, or
reward or engagement therefor upon any agreement or undertaking, expressed or
implied to compound or conceal such offense, or not to prosecute therefor, or
not to give evidence thereof.
(Prior Code, § 501.09)
§ 130.09 FAILURE TO TESTIFY.
   No person summoned or ordered to attend as a witness before any court shall
refuse or fail to attend, or attending refuse to testify or produce any paper
or other matter of evidence. In addition to any other penalty under this code,
he or she shall be imprisoned during his or her failure or refusal to so
testify or produce such paper or other matter of evidence, as for contempt.
(Prior Code, § 501.10)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this Title XIII - General Offenses
Code for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
130.01 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-14)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
130.02(B) shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than five
days, or both.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
130.02(D) shall be fined not more than $1,000 and shall be imprisoned not more
than 30 days.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
130.02(E) shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000 and shall be
imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
   (F)   Whoever violates §
130.02(H) shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $2,000 or imprisoned
not less than one day nor more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
(W. Va. Code § 61-5-17)
   (G)   (1)   Except as provided by the provisions of division (G)(2) of this
section, any person who violates the provisions of §
130.03 shall be fined for a first offense not more than $100 or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, or both; and for a second and each subsequent offense
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days, or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.03 with the intent to cause injury to the person of another, to cause
destruction of the property of another or to divert the attention of law
enforcement or fire personnel to help effectuate the commission of another
crime shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates §
130.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-17)
   (I)   Whoever violates §
130.04(A) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or confined
in jail for not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
(W. Va. Code § 61-1-9)
(Prior Code, § 501.99)
CHAPTER 131: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCES
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Loitering on school property
   
131.03   Begging or soliciting funds
   
131.04   Curfew
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
131.06Encouraging violations of law
   
131.07   Noise disturbances
   
131.08   Public intoxication
   
131.09   Loitering at swimming pool and ball park
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall, in a public place, any state or municipal office or
office building or any other property owned, leased, occupied or controlled by
the state or municipality, a mobile home park, a public parking area, a common
area of an apartment building or dormitory, or a common area of a privately
owned commercial shopping center, mall or other group of commercial retail
establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent, profane, indecent or
boisterous conduct or language or by the making of unreasonably loud noise that
is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another person, and who persists in
such conduct after being requested to desist by a law enforcement officer
acting in his or her lawful capacity; provided, that nothing in this division
(A) should be construed as a deterrence to the lawful and orderly public right
to demonstrate in support or protest of public policy issues.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
         (a)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A privately-owned residential housing area or
subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes and
wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for purposes
of ingress and egress, parking, recreation and other like residential purposes.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An area, whether publicly or privately owned or
maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-1b) (Prior Code, § 509.01)
§ 131.02 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person, not a student in regular attendance, shall loiter in or about any
school, school building or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-14a) (Prior Code, § 509.02)
§ 131.03 BEGGING OR SOLICITING FUNDS.
   No person shall beg or solicit for any organizations on the streets or
within town at any time for money, alms or otherwise, without a permit first
authorized by the Town Council. The Town Recorder shall make a record of the
permit. The Car Stop for Donations Ordinance sets up the permit in §
112.40.
(Prior Code, § 509.03)
§ 131.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Curfew Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purposes and findings.
      (1)   The Town Council has determined that large numbers of juveniles
have been congregating in the town causing general disturbances to residents,
and contribution to an excessive number of incidents of drug and alcohol
related crimes, thefts, possible homicides and assaults, including a high
percentage of crimes committed by and against juveniles.
      (2)   The Town Council finds and determines that special and extenuating
circumstances presently exist within this town that call for special regulation
of minors within the town in order to protect them from each other and from
other persons on the street during the nocturnal hours, and to aid in crime
prevention, to promote parental supervision and authority over minors and to
decrease juvenile crime rates.
      (3)   In accordance with the prevailing community standards, this section
serves to regulate the conduct of juveniles on streets during nocturnal hours,
and those hours prohibited by the town and West Virginia Compulsory School
Attendance Law, being W. Va. Code Chapter 18, Article 8, to be effectively and
consistently enforced for the protection of the juveniles in the town from each
other and from other persons on the streets during nocturnal hours, for the
enforcement of parental control of, authority over, and the responsibility for
their children, for the protection of the public from nocturnal mischief by
juveniles, for the reduction in the incidents of juvenile criminal activity,
for the furtherance of family responsibility and for the public good, safety
and welfare.
      (4)   After review and evaluation of this section the Council finds that
there is justification for the purposes and findings herein to adopt this
section as well as to coincide with the West Virginia Compulsory School
Attendance Law.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular and words in the singular number include the plural. The word “shall”
is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      MINOR or JUVENILE. Any unemancipated person under the age of 18 years or,
in equivalent phrasing often herein employed, any person 17 or less years of
age.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. Refers to the Police Department Headquarters located
on Route 10, Cook Parkway, Oceana, West Virginia.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors)
totaling four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using
the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going
home. To implement that thought with additional precision and precaution,
numerous exemptions are expressly defined in division (E) of this section so
that this is not a mere prohibitory or presence type.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatsoever nature, open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of
time, whether Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Savings Time, generally
observed at that hour by the public in the town, prima facie the time when
observed in the town’s administrative offices and Police Department.
      TOWN. The Town of Oceana, West Virginia with administrative offices
located on Route 10, Cook Parkway, P.O. Box 190, Oceana, West Virginia 24870.
      YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth, to
(but not including the day of) the next, making it clear that 17 or less years
of age is herein treated as equivalent to the phrase “under 18 years of age”,
unless specifically defined differently herein.
   (D)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under 18 years of age to remain
in or upon any public street, highway, park, vacant lot or other public place
within the town during the period ending at 6:00 a.m. and beginning at:
         (a)   12:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday mornings; and
         (b)   10:00 p.m. on Sunday night through Thursday night.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any compulsory school age child, meaning a
child who has attained or will attain the age of six years on or before
September 1 of the calendar year and who has not attained the age of 16 years
on or before September 1 of the calendar year to remain in or upon any public
street, highway, park, vacant lot or other place within the town during the
following period: 7:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday during the
school term in which said compulsory school age child is to be enrolled in a
public or private legitimate non-public school, as required by the West
Virginia Compulsory School Attendance Law, W. Va. Code § 18-8-1(4) and W. Va.
Code § 18-8-1a.
      (3)   It shall further be unlawful for a parent of a minor to knowingly
permit or by inefficient control to allow such minor to be or remain upon any
town street under circumstances not constituting an exception to, or otherwise
beyond the scope or, this section.
      (4)   The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that
parent’s legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep neglectful or
careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test.
      (5)   It shall, a fortiori, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such minor child.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew:
         (a)   At any time, if a minor is accompanied by his or her parent;
         (b)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such
minor to take said parent’s place in accompanying said minor for a designated
period of time and purpose within a specified area;
         (c)   Until the hour of 12:30 a.m. if the minor is on an errand as
directed by his or her parent;
         (d)   If the minor is legally employed, for the period from 45 minutes
before or 45 minutes after work, while going directly between his or her home
and place of employment. This exception shall also apply if the minor is in a
public place during curfew hours in the course of his or her employment;
         (e)   When returning home by a direct route from (and within 30
minutes of the termination of) a school activity or an activity of a religious
or other voluntary association or a place of public entertainment, such as a
movie, play or sporting event. This exception will not apply beyond 1:30 a.m.
if the event is not commercial in nature or does not have a fixed, public known
time at which it will or does end the sponsoring organization must register the
event with the Chief of Police of the town’s Police Department (or his or her
assigned representative) at least 24 hours in advance, informing the Police
Department of the time such event is scheduled to begin, the place at which it
shall be held, the time at which it shall end and the name of the sponsoring
organization;
         (f)   In the case of reasonable necessity, but only after such minor’s
parent has communicated to the Police Department personnel the facts
establishing such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose including place or origin and
destination. A copy of such communication, or the police record thereof, duly
certified by the Chief of Police to be correct, an appropriate notation of the
time it was received and of the names and addresses of such parent and minor
shall constitute evidence of qualification under this exception;
         (g)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly, such minor shall evidence the bona fides of such
exercise and provide notice to town officials by first delivering to the Police
Department a written communication, signed by such minor, with his or her home
address and telephone number, addressed to the Mayor of the town specifying
when, where and in what manner said minor will be on the streets at night
(during hours when this section is still otherwise applicable to said minor in
the exercise of a First Amendment right specified in such communication); and
         (h)   When a minor is, with parental consent in a motor vehicle
engaged in bona fide travel through the town, particularly on State Routes 10,
85, and 971 and all access toads to these state routes. This also exempts all
travel beginning or ending in the town.
      (2)   Each of the foregoing exceptions, and their several limitations,
such as provisions for notification, are severable, as hereinafter provided by
here re-emphasized.
   (F)   Violations.
      (1)   A police officer of the town who has probable cause to believe that
a minor is in violation of this section shall:
         (a)   Ascertain the name and address of the minor;
         (b)   Issue the minor a written warning that the minor is in violation
of this section; and
         (c)   Order the minor to go promptly home by a direct route; and call
the minor’s parent or legal guardian within 24 hours and direct the minor has
been cited for a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a police
officer who has probable cause to believe that a minor is in violation of this
section, shall transport the minor to the Police Department, if:
         (a)   The minor has received one previous written warning for
violation of this section; or
         (b)   Reasonable grounds exists to believe the minor has engaged in
delinquent conduct.
      (3)   (a)   If a minor has received one previous written warning for
violation of this section, then a police officer of the town who has probable
cause to believe that a minor is in violation of this section shall issue a
citation to that minor.
         (b)   If a minor has received two previous written warnings for
violation of this section, then a police officer of the town who has probable
cause to believe that a minor is in violation of this town shall issue a
citation to the parents of that minor.
      (4)   Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
more than two times shall be referred to the juvenile justice system of the
state and in accordance with the directives of the juvenile justice system
court of the county or such other court as shall have jurisdiction of said
minor.
(Prior Code, § 509.04) (Ord. passed 11-27-1996; Ord. passed 11-18-2004)
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   On any street, highway, public building, in or on a public or
private conveyance, or public place, engage in conduct having a direct tendency
to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom, individually, such
conduct is directed;
      (2)   Willfully, or being intoxicated, whether willfully or not, disrupt
any meeting of the governing body of any political subdivision of this state or
a division or agency thereof, or of any school, literary society or place of
religious worship, or any other meeting open to the public, if such disruption
prevents or interferes with the orderly conduct of such meeting or has a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom,
individually, such disruption is directed;
      (3)   Engage in fighting, or threaten to harm persons or property
unlawfully;
      (4)   Make offensively coarse utterance, gesture or display, or
communicate unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, which by
its very utterance or usage inflicts injury or tends to incite an immediate
breach of the peace;
      (5)   Insult, taunt or challenge another under circumstances in which
such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (6)   Hinder or prevent the movement of persons or vehicles on a public
street, road, highway right-of-way or to, from, within or upon public or
private property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, by any act
which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose;
      (7)   Create a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to
persons or property; or
      (8)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon the property of any
other person, except this section shall not apply to the use of restrooms and/
or bathrooms.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing described herein shall be interpreted or construed to
prevent any constitutionally protected activity including, but not necessarily
limited to, exercise of one’s constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of
speech or assembly.
      (2)   No person may be convicted under this section when his or her sole
intent for engaging in the activities for which he or she was arrested was to
exercise one or more of the rights guaranteed to him or her under the
Constitution of the United States or the state’s Constitution or to exercise
any other rights guaranteed to that person by law.
(Prior Code, § 509.05)
§ 131.06 ENCOURAGING VIOLATIONS OF LAW.
   No person by words or otherwise shall advise, encourage or incite anyone to
the violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance of the town, nor
shall advise or encourage any disorderly or boisterous conduct within the town.
(Prior Code, § 509.06)
§ 131.07 NOISE DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   Prohibited generally. It shall be a misdemeanor and a public nuisance
for any person to willfully make, permit, continue or cause to be made,
permitted or continued any noise disturbance.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. Subject to the exceptions provided in division
(C) of this section, any of the following acts, or the causing or permitting
thereof, among others, is declared to be a noise disturbance constituting a
misdemeanor and a public nuisance, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to
be exclusive nor to limit the scope or application of the general prohibitions
as provided in division (A) of this section:
      (1)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
amplifier, television, record, tape or compact disc player, drum, musical
instrument or similar device:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner
as to permit sound to be heard across a residential real property boundary; or
         (b)   When the sound source is located within a motor vehicle in or
upon public right-of-way or public property and the sound can be heard more
than 50 feet from its source.
      (2)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, whistling or
singing between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. so as to create a noise
disturbance on a public right-of-way or public property or at any time or place
in such a manner as to permit sound to be heard across a residential real
property boundary, or to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons in any office or hotel or motel.
   (C)   Exceptions. Divisions (A) and (B) shall have no application to any
sound generated by any of the following:
      (1)   Sound which is necessary of the protection of preservation of
property or the health, safety, life or limb of any person;
      (2)   Radios, sirens, horns and bells on police, fire or other emergency
response vehicles;
      (3)   Parades, fireworks, school-related activities and other special
events or activities for which a permit has been issued by the town, within
such hours as may be imposed as a condition for the issuance of the permit;
      (4)   Activities on or in municipal and school athletic facilities and on
or in publicly owned property and facilities, provided that such activity has
been authorized by the owner of such property or facilities or its agent;
      (5)   Fire alarms and burglar alarms, prior to the giving of notice and a
reasonable opportunity for the owner or tenant in possession of the premises
served by any such alarm to turn off the alarm;
      (6)   Religious services, religious events or religious activities,
including, but not limited to, music, bells, chimes and organs which are a part
of such service, event or activity;
      (7)   Locomotives and other railroad equipment and aircraft;
      (8)   The striking of clocks; and
      (9)   Any other noise resulting from activities permitted by law or for
which a license or permit has been granted by the town or the state.
   (D)   Additional remedy injunction for noise violations. As an additional
remedy, making, permitting, or continuing any noise disturbance in violation of
any provision hereof or which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace of
residents in the area shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance
and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 509.07) (Ord. passed 12-13-2007)
§ 131.08 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   No person shall be intoxicated or drunk within the town in any public place
or resort.
(Prior Code, § 509.08)
§ 131.09 LOITERING AT SWIMMING POOL AND BALL PARK.
   (A)   No person shall sit, in or otherwise occupy a motor vehicle parked or
stationed on the area outside of the ballpark and the municipal swimming pool
adjacent thereto after the hour of 10:00 p.m. on any day excepting only when
athletic events or civic events are in progress inside the ballpark or special
supervised parties organized have permitted use of the swimming pool; provided
that persons residing in the area affected may continue to park their
unoccupied motor vehicles and school buses in locations adjacent to the
athletic field and municipal swimming pool.
   (B)   The prohibition set forth in division (A) of this section shall be
applicable within one-half hour after the completion of any athletic or civic
events or supervised swimming party on those particular nights when such usages
are made of the public facilities.
   (C)   No person shall loiter upon or about the above described area abutting
the athletic field and municipal swimming pool on or after 9:30 p.m. to 7:00
a.m. on any day or night. LOITERING means walking about or sitting upon the
ground or paved surface except in connection with appearance at an athletic,
civic or swimming event or in connection with the lawful parking of vehicles as
provided in division (A) of this section.
   (D)   Any person who is convicted of violation of this section may be
imprisoned not to exceed five days in the county jail or fined not to exceed
$25 or both imprisoned and fined. Juveniles charged with violation of this
section shall be delivered to the Wyoming County Juvenile Officer for such
action as he or she deems pertinent under the existing circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 509.09)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for the general penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
131.01 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 24 hours.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-1b)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
131.02 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense such person
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code § 61-6-14a)
(Prior Code, § 509.99)
CHAPTER 132: GAMBLING
Section
   
132.01   Keeping or exhibiting gambling apparatus
   
132.02   Permitting gambling apparatus on premises
   
132.03   Acting as lookout or guard for keeper of gambling apparatus
   
132.04   Playing on gambling apparatus; hotels, public places
   
132.05   Making wager for value or furnishing money to another for wager
   
132.06   Permitting gambling at public places
   
132.07   Cheating or fraudulent actions while gambling or making a wager
   
132.08   Poolrooms and pool tickets
   
132.09   Lotteries and raffles
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 KEEPING OR EXHIBITING GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall keep or exhibit a gaming table, commonly called an A, B, C
or E, O table, faro bank, keno table, or any slot machine, multiple coin
console machine, multiple coin console slot machine or device in the nature of
a slot machine, or any other gaming table or device of like kind, under any
denomination or which has no name, whether the game, table, bank, machine or
device is played with cards, dice or otherwise, or be a partner, or concerned
in interest, in keeping or exhibiting such table, bank, machine or gaming
device of any character. Any such table, faro bank, machine or gaming device,
and all money staked or exhibited to allure persons to bet at such table or
upon such gaming device, may be seized by order of the Police Court and the
money so seized shall be forfeited to the municipality and paid into the
municipal treasury and the table, faro bank, machine or gaming device shall be
completely destroyed. However, the provisions of this section shall not extend
to coin-operated nonpayout machines with free play features or to automatic
weighing, measuring, musical and vending machines which are so constructed as
to give a certain uniform and fair return in value or services for each coin
deposited therein and in which there is no element of chance.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-1) (Prior Code, § 513.01)
§ 132.02 PERMITTING GAMBLING APPARATUS ON PREMISES.
   No person shall knowingly permit a gaming table, bank or device, as
mentioned in §
132.01, to be kept or exhibited on any premises in his or her occupation.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-2) (Prior Code, § 513.02)
§ 132.03 ACTING AS LOOKOUT OR GUARD FOR KEEPER OF GAMBLING APPARATUS.
   No person shall act as doorkeeper, guard or watch, or employ another person
to act as such, for a keeper or exhibitor of any gaming table, bank or device
as mentioned in §
132.01, nor resist, nor by any means or device, prevent, hinder or delay the
lawful arrest of such keeper or exhibitor, or the seizure of the table, bank or
device, or money exhibited or staked thereat, nor unlawfully take the same from
the person seizing it.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-3) (Prior Code, § 513.03)
§ 132.04 PLAYING ON GAMBLING APPARATUS; HOTELS, PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall bet or play at any gaming table, bank or device as mentioned
in §
132.01, or, at any hotel or tavern, other public place or place of public
resort, play at any game except bowling, chess or backgammon, draughts or a
licensed game, or bet on the side of those who play at any game, whether or not
the game is permitted or licensed.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-4) (Prior Code, § 513.04)
§ 132.05 MAKING WAGER FOR VALUE OR FURNISHING MONEY TO ANOTHER FOR WAGER.
   No person shall, at any place, public or private, bet or wage money or other
thing of value on any game of chance, or knowingly furnish any money or other
thing of value to any other person to bet or wage on any such game.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-5) (Prior Code, § 513.05)
§ 132.06 PERMITTING GAMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES.
   No keeper of a hotel, tavern or other public place shall permit unlawful
gaming at his or her house, or at any outhouse, booth, arbor or other place
appurtenant thereto.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-6) (Prior Code, § 513.06)
§ 132.07 CHEATING OR FRAUDULENT ACTIONS WHILE GAMBLING OR MAKING A WAGER.
   No person playing at any game or making a wager, or having a share in any
stake or wager, or betting on the hands or sides of others playing at any game
or making a wager, shall cheat, or by fraudulent means win or acquire for
himself, herself, or another, money or any other valuable thing.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-9) (Prior Code, § 513.07)
§ 132.08 POOLROOMS AND POOL TICKETS.
   POOLROOM, wherever used in this section, means any room where any pool
ticket, chance voucher or certificate is sold entitling or purporting to
entitle the holder or promisee thereof, or any other person, to money or other
thing of value, contingent upon the result of any horse race, prizefight, game
of chance, game of skill or science or other sport or contest. No person shall
set up or promote, or be connected with or interested in the management or
operation of any poolroom. The buying, selling or transferring of tickets or
chances in any lottery is hereby prohibited.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-10) (Prior Code, § 513.08)
§ 132.09 LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall set up, promote
or be concerned in managing or drawing a lottery or raffle for money or other
thing of value; knowingly permit such lottery in any house under his or her
control; knowingly permit money or other property to be raffled for in such
house or to be won therein by throwing or using dice or by any other game of
chance; knowingly permit the sale in such house of any chance or ticket, or
share of a ticket in a lottery, or any writing, certificate, bill, token or
other device purporting or intended to guarantee or assure to any person or to
entitle him or her to a prize, or a share of or interest in a prize to be drawn
in a lottery.
   (B)   No person shall for himself or herself or any other person, buy, sell,
transfer or have in his or her possession for the purpose of sale or with
intent to exchange, negotiate or transfer, or aid in selling, exchanging,
negotiating or transferring a chance or ticket, or a share of a ticket, in a
lottery or any such writing, certificate, bill, token or device. However, this
section shall not be deemed to apply to that certain type or form of lottery or
raffle designated and familiarly known as “policy” or “numbers”.
(W. Va. Code § 61-10-11) (Prior Code, § 513.09)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for general penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
132.03 or
132.06 shall be fined not more than $100.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
132.05 shall be fined not more than $300.
(Prior Code, § 513.99)
CHAPTER 133: INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
Section
   
133.01   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging in prostitution,
lewdness or assignation
   
133.02   Detention of person in place of prostitution
   
133.03   Pandering
   
133.04   Pimping
   
133.05   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
133.06   Indecent exposure
   
133.07   Invasion of privacy by looking
   
133.08   Preparation, distribution or exhibition of obscene matter to minors
   133.09   Sale or display of obscene matter
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 OPERATING A PLACE FOR OR PERMITTING OR ENGAGING IN PROSTITUTION,
LEWDNESS OR ASSIGNATION.
   (A)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain or operate any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or part thereof, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or
part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to be used for
the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or assignation, or let, sublet or rent
any such place, premises or conveyance to another with knowledge or good reason
to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to use such place, premises or
conveyance for prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or offer, or offer to
secure another for the purpose of prostitution or for any other lewd or
indecent act; or receive or offer or agree to receive any person into any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or vehicle,
trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation, or permit any person to remain there for such purpose; or for
another or others, direct, take or transport, or offer or agree to take or
transport, or aid or assist in transporting any person to any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer or other
conveyance, or to any other person with knowledge or having reasonable cause to
believe that the purpose of such directing, taking or transporting is
prostitution, lewdness or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing
of any acts herein prohibited. Whoever violates this division (A) shall, for a
first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness or assignation,
or solicit, induce, entice or procure another to commit an act of prostitution,
lewdness or assignation; or reside in, enter or remain in any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, or enter or remain in any
vehicle, trailer or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness
or assignation; or aid, abet or participate in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) shall, for a first or second
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
   (C)   (1)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting,
subletting or renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other
structure which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness or
assignation, shall be void from and after the date any person who is a party to
such an agreement shall be convicted of an offense hereunder.
      (2)   TOURIST CAMP includes any temporary or permanent buildings, tents,
cabins or structures, or trailers or other vehicles which are maintained,
offered or used for dwelling or sleeping quarters for pay.
   (D)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-5) (Prior Code, § 517.01)
§ 133.02 DETENTION OF PERSON IN PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall by any means keep, hold, detain or restrain any person
in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or
allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain or restrain or
attempt to keep, hold, detain or restrain, in any house of prostitution or
other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any person by any
means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or indirectly, to
pay, liquidate or cancel any debt, dues or obligations incurred or said to have
been incurred by such person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-6) (Prior Code, § 517.02)
§ 133.03 PANDERING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of prostitution,
or by promises, threats, violence or by any device or scheme, cause, induce,
persuade or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house of prostitution,
or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution for a person. No
person shall, by promises, threats, violence or any device or scheme cause,
induce, persuade or encourage an inmate of a house of prostitution to remain
therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice, or by duress of person
or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or authority, procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to enter any place in which
prostitution is encouraged or allowed within this municipality, or to come into
or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution, or shall procure
any person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within this municipality
or to come into or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution; or
shall receive or give or agree to receive or give any money or thing of value
for procuring or attempting to procure any person to become an inmate of a
house of ill fame within this municipality, or to come into or leave this
municipality for the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of this municipality, and the offense shall in such case be
deemed and alleged to have been committed and the offender tried and punished
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-7) (Prior Code, § 517.03)
§ 133.04 PIMPING.
   (A)   No person knowing another person to be a prostitute, shall live or
derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution. A
prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution hereunder to testify
for or against the accused as to any transaction or conversation with the
accused, or by the accused with another person or persons in the presence of
the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the accused before or
after the violation of any of the provisions of this section, whether called as
a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its dissolution.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-8) (Prior Code, § 517.04)
§ 133.05 OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (A)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion or proposal which is obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (C)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made, or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-16) (Prior Code, § 517.06)
§ 133.06 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus or the
sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure by
another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under circumstances
in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm;
provided, that it is not considered indecent exposure for a mother to breast
feed a child in any location, public or private.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8-9) (Prior Code, § 517.07)
§ 133.07 INVASION OF PRIVACY BY LOOKING.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door or other aperture of any building, structure or other enclosure of
any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure or enclosure be permanently situated or
transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
(Prior Code, § 517.08)
§ 133.08 SALE OR DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIVIDUAL. Any human being regardless of age.
      KNOWINGLY. To have knowledge of or to be aware of the content or
character of obscene matter.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription or
mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines or materials.
      OBSCENE. Matter which the average individual applying contemporary
community standards would find:
         (a)   Taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest;
         (b)   Depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; and
         (c)   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value, and which either:
            1.   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, masochism; or
            2.   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display sack, window, showcase, display
case or similar public places so that material can be purchased or viewed by
individuals.
   (B)   Individual relief. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction to issue
an injunction to enforce the purposes of this section upon petition by the
attorney for the municipality or a representative thereof or any citizen of the
municipality who can show a good faith and valid reason for making such
application. No bond shall be required unless for good cause shown.
   (C)   Activities prohibited. No person shall knowingly send or cause to be
sent or cause to be brought into the municipality for sale or public display,
or prepare, sell or make a public display, or in the municipality offer to
prepare, sell or make a public display, or have in his or her possession with
the intent to sell or make a public display of any obscene matter to any
individual.
   (D)   Employees not prosecuted. No employee shall be guilty of a violation
of this section when such employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, usher, or
when such employee prepares, sells or makes a public display of obscene matter
while acting within the scope of his or her regular employment, unless such
employee has a proprietary interest in such obscene matter or is a shareholder
or officer of a corporation which has a proprietary interest in such obscene
matter.
   (E)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the Constitution or laws of this
state or of these United States.
(W. Va. Code § 8-12-5B) (Prior Code, § 517.10)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
133.01(A) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
133.01(B) shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both, and for a second offense shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, any
person who violates the provisions of §
133.06 shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days, or fined not more than
$250 or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
133.06 by intentionally exposing himself or herself to another person and the
exposure was done for the purpose of sexual gratification, shall be fined not
more than $500, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both. For a
second offense, the person shall be fined not more than $1,000 and confined in
jail for 30 days. For a third or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
133.08 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense such person
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both.
(Prior Code, § 517.99)
CHAPTER 134: MINORS
Section
   
134.01   Contributing to delinquency or neglect of minor
   
134.02   Cruelty to children
   
134.03   Parental liability for acts of children
   
134.04   Abandoned airtight containers
   
134.05   Social host
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OR NEGLECT OF MINOR.
   (A)   No person 18 years of age or older shall knowingly contribute to or
encourage the delinquency of a child.
   (B)   As used in this section, DELINQUENCY means the violation or attempted
violation of any federal or state statute, county or municipal ordinance, or a
court order, or the habitual or continual refusal to comply, without just
cause, with the lawful supervision or direction of a parent, guardian or
custodian.
   (C)   In addition to any penalty provided under §
130.99 and any restitution which may be ordered by the court pursuant to W. Va.
Code § 61-11A-5, the court may order any person convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section to pay all or any portion of the cost of medical,
psychological or psychiatric treatment provided the child resulting from the
acts for which the person is convicted.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any parent, guardian or custodian who
fails or refuses, or allows another person to fail or refuse, to supply a child
under the care, custody or control of the parent, guardian or custodian with
necessary medical care, when medical care conflicts with the tenets and
practices of a recognized religious denomination or order of which parent,
guardian or custodian is an adherent or member.
   (E)   It is not an essential element of the offense created by this section
that the minor actually be delinquent.
   (F)   Upon conviction, the court may suspend the sentence of a person found
guilty under this section. A suspended sentence may be subjected to the
following terms and conditions:
      (1)   That offender pay for any and all treatment, support and
maintenance while the child is in the custody of the state or person that the
court determines reasonable and necessary for the welfare of the child;
      (2)   That the offender post a sufficient bond to secure the payment for
all sums ordered to be paid under this section, as long as the bond does not
exceed $5,000; and
      (3)   That the offender participate in any program or training that will
assist the child in correcting the delinquent behavior or, in the case of
neglect, that will assist the offender in correcting his or her behavior that
led to violation of this section.
   (G)   (1)   The penalty of a bond given upon suspension of a sentence which
becomes forfeited is recoverable without a separate suit. The court may cause a
citation or a summons to issue to the principal and surety, requiring that they
appear at a time named by the court, not less than ten days, from the issuance
of the summons, and show cause why a judgment should not be entered for the
penalty of the bond and execution issued against the property of the principal
and the surety.
      (2)   Any money collected or paid upon an execution, or upon the bond,
shall be deposited with the Clerk of the Court in which the bond was given. The
money shall be applied first to the payment of all court costs and then to the
treatment, care or maintenance of the child who was at issue when the offender
was convicted of this section.
   (H)   If the guilty person had custody of the child prior to conviction, the
court or judge may, on suspending sentence, permit the child to remain in the
custody of the person, and make it a condition of suspending sentence that the
person provides whatever treatment and care may be required for the welfare of
the child, and shall do whatever may be calculated to secure obedience to the
law or to remove the cause of the delinquency.
(W. Va. Code § 61-8D-10) (Prior Code, § 525.01)
§ 134.02 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon, any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody or control of any minor child, shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the need
for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
(W. Va. Code Chapter 61, Article 8D) (Prior Code, § 525.02)
§ 134.03 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   (A)   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
      (1)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
      (2)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of
another, whether the property be real, personal, or mixed;
      (3)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
      (4)   The willful taking, stealing and carrying away of the property of
another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT OR PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
   (C)   (1)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall
include, but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county
commission and board of education, or other political subdivision of this state
or any person or organization of any kind or character.
      (2)   The action may be brought in magistrate or another court of
competent jurisdiction. Recovery hereunder shall be limited to the actual
damages, based upon direct out-of-pocket loss, taxable court costs, and
interest from date of judgment.
      (3)   The right of action and remedy granted herein shall be in addition
to and not exclusive of any rights of action and remedies therefor against a
parent or parents for the tortious acts of his, her or their children
heretofore existing under the provisions of any law, statutory or otherwise, or
now so existing independently of the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code § 55-7A-2) (Prior Code, § 525.03)
§ 134.04 ABANDONED AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance or other
airtight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-26) (Prior Code, § 525.04)
§ 134.05 SOCIAL HOST.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any liquid substance that is obtained by any of the
following methods:
         (a)   By the fermentation of barley, malt, hops, similar products or
substitutes and containing any amount of ethyl alcohol, and commonly referred
to as “beer” or “nonintoxicating beer”;
         (b)   By the fermentation of the natural content of fruits or other
agricultural products and containing any amount of ethyl alcohol, and commonly
referred to as “wine”; or
         (c)   By distillation and mixed with potable water and other
substances in solution and containing any amount of ethyl alcohol, and commonly
referred to as “liquor” or “spirits”.
      CONTRIBUTE TO A SOCIAL EVENT. To provide real property, space, area,
personal property, money, credit, financing, supervision, food, drinks,
decorations, alibi, alcoholic beverages, illegal substances, needles, drug
paraphernalia, or any portion thereof, for a gathering of two or more persons.
      ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES. Any substance in any form that consists of any amount
of the following, but does not include that which was obtained by the possessor
through a valid prescription:
         (a)   Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V drug as defined in W. Va. Code §§
60A-2-204 et seq.; or
         (b)   Counterfeit schedule I, II, III, IV or V drug regardless of its
composition.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. A person who has not yet reached the age of 21 years.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally contribute to a
social event where not all persons in attendance are related by blood or
marriage to each other and underage persons consume alcoholic beverages, and
the person knew or reasonably should have known that underage persons would be
consuming alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally contribute to a
social event where underage persons consume illegal substances and the person
knew or reasonable should have known that underage persons would be consuming
illegal substances.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person 21 years of age or more who observes
underage consumption of alcoholic beverages or illegal substances to fail to
take the following actions:
         (a)   If underage consumption of alcoholic beverages, the person must
immediately verbally demand the underage person to stop and then immediately
contact the underage person’s parent or guardian and report the situation; and
         (b)   If underage consumption of illegal substances, the person must
immediately verbally demand the underage person to stop and then immediately
contact 911 or the local law enforcement agency and report the situation.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any provision of
division (B) of this section.
      (2)   The penalty for each violation is as follows:
         (a)   For a first offense, a fine not more than $100;
         (b)   For a second offense, a fine not less than $100 nor more than
$300; and
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine not less than $300 nor
more than $1,000.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2016)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
134.04 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(Prior Code, § 525.99)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Assault and battery
   
135.02   Assault and battery on school employees
   
135.03   Prohibiting open containers to be carried upon town streets
   
135.04   Controlled substances
   
135.05   Drug paraphernalia
 
   
135.99   Penalty
§ 135.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act that places another in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
   (B)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature to the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-9) (Prior Code, § 529.01)
§ 135.02 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No person shall commit an assault:
      (1)   By unlawfully attempting to commit a violent injury to the person
of a school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or
her duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment or if the
motive for the assault is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to
supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-
1 or 18A-5-1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully committing an act which places a school employee in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury while the
employee is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or
from his or her place of employment or if the motive for the assault is
retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline
one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code §§ 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
   (B)   No person shall commit a battery:
      (1)   By unlawfully and intentionally making physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with the person of a school employee while he or
she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or from
his or her place of employment or if the motive for the battery is retaliation
for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline one or more
pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code § 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a school
employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is
commuting to or from his or her place of employment or if the motive for the
battery is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or
discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code § 18A-5-1 or 18A-5-1a.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, SCHOOL EMPLOYEE means a person
employed by a county board of education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis or otherwise. For the purposes of this section, a school
employee includes a student teacher.
(W. Va. Code § 61-2-15) (Prior Code, § 529.02)
§ 135.03 PROHIBITING OPEN CONTAINERS TO BE CARRIED UPON TOWN STREETS.
   The Town Council has determined and found that open containers of alcoholic
beverages have been carried and exhibited on the public streets, sidewalks and
other public places in the town and in the presence of children and
pedestrians, and said containers disposed of and thrown upon said streets,
sidewalks, public places and adjoining private property, and such conduct is
detrimental to the welfare, safety and morals of the children and pedestrians
using said streets, sidewalks and public places. It is hereby declared illegal
for any person to carry or exhibit upon a public street, sidewalk or in any
public place within the town an open can, bottle or other container of any
alcoholic beverage or to deposit the same in any street, sidewalk or any public
place or upon private property within the town other than in a receptacle for
the disposal of refuse.
(Ord. passed 4-5-1979)
§ 135.04 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, knowingly or intentionally to possess a
controlled substance in the town unless the substance was obtained directly
from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a practitioner while
acting in the course of his or her professional practice.
   (B)   Penalties.
 
                    Fine
Relating to Marijuana Less Than 15 grams Misdemeanor
   First convictio$100 to $1,000
   Second convicti$500 to $1,000
Relating to Prescription Medication Misdemeanor
   First convictio$300 to $1,000
   Second convicti$500 to $1,000
 
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 135.05 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, produce or market for
sale any items, effect, paraphernalia, accessory or thing which is designed or
marketed for use with CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES as the same is defined in W. Va.
Code Chapter 60A.
   (B)   (1)   As used in this section, PARAPHERNALIA shall be defined as any
legitimate equipment, product or material that is modified for making, using or
concealing illegal drugs such as cocaine, cocaine based derivative, heroin,
marijuana and methamphetamine and includes certain pipes, smoking masks, bongs,
cocaine freebase kits, marijuana grow kits, roach clips, and items such as
hollowed out cosmetic cases or fake pagers used to conceal illegal drugs and
dealer-specific products used for preparing illegal drugs for distribution at
the street level such as scales, vials, and baggies but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, any container with
drug residue (e.g., dinner plates, spoons), or punctured metal bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetor tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Chambers pipes;
         (g)   Carburetor pipes;
         (h)   Electric pipes;
         (i)   Air-driven pipes;
         (j)   Chillums;
         (k)   Bongs;
         (l)   Ice pipes or chillers;
         (m)   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials; and
         (n)   Needles without prescriptions.
      (2)   Drug paraphernalia does not include any items traditionally used
with tobacco such as pipes and rolling papers.
   (C)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this section, and to this end the provisions of
this section are hereby declared to be severable.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of this section is, for the first
offense, guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $500. For the second offense, is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000. For third or
subsequent offenses, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $2,000.
(Ord. passed 8-14-2014)
§ 135.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
135.01(A) or
135.02(A) shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 529.99)
   (C)   Any persons or person in violation of §
135.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 4-5-1979)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
136.01   Shoplifting
   
136.02   Trespass
   
136.03   Petit larceny
   
136.04   Dealing with stolen goods
   
136.05   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
136.06   Tampering with and theft of utilities
   
136.07   Damaging fences
   
136.08   Obstruction of streams and watercourses
   
136.09   Political signs on public property
   
136.10   Public records
   
136.11   Littering
   
136.12   Graffiti
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARD-NOT-PRESENT CREDIT or DEBIT TRANSACTION. A credit or debit sale of
merchandise by telephone, mail order, internet or other means that does not
require the cardholder’s signature or physical presentation of the credit or
debit card to the merchant.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents or other agents.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuffs, wares or personal property or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held or offered
for sale, or a shopping cart.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of the merchandise,
or in the event of altering, transferring or removing a price marking or
causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail
value of the merchandise, as defined in division (B) of this section, the
difference between the merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the
altered price.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-6)
   (B)   Shoplifting defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of SHOPLIFTING if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         (a)   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         (b)   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         (c)   Alters, transfers or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         (d)   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         (e)   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         (f)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment; or
         (g)   Repudiates a card-not-present credit or debit transaction after
having taken delivery of merchandise ordered from the merchant and does not
return the merchandise or attempt to make other arrangements with the vendor.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-1)
   (C)   Breach of peace; detention. An act of shoplifting as defined herein,
is hereby declared to constitute a breach of peace and any owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, or any law enforcement officer who
has reasonable ground to believe that a person has committed shoplifting, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time
not to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of investigating whether or not such
person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting. Such reasonable
detention shall not constitute an arrest nor shall it render the owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, liable to the person detained.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-4)
   (D)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         (a)   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         (b)   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         (c)   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-2)
   (E)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         (a)   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         (b)   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
         (c)   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not
including the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile
establishment or any merchant in connection with the apprehension and
processing of the suspect; and
         (d)   In all cases, for a penalty to be paid to the mercantile
establishment in the amount of $50 or double the value of the merchandise
whichever is higher.
      (2)   Costs and attorney fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party under
this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by division (F) of this section is not entitled to recover the
penalty imposed by this section.
      (4)   Right to demand payment. The fact that a mercantile establishment
may bring an action against an individual as provided in this section does not
limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in writing, that a
person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this section remit such
damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal action.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-5)
   (F)   Penalty. A person convicted of shoplifting shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
         (a)   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more than $250.
         (b)   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$500, and such fine shall not be suspended; or the person shall be confined in
jail not more than 30 days, or both.
      (2)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
         (a)   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500
the person is guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than $100,
nor more than $500 and such fine shall not be suspended; or the person shall be
confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both.
         (b)   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, shall be fined not less than $500 and shall be
confined in jail not more than 30 days.
      (3)   Mandatory penalty.
         (a)   In addition to the fines and imprisonment imposed by this
section, in all cases of conviction for the offense of shoplifting, the court
shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the mercantile establishment
involved in the amount of $50, or double the value of the merchandise involved,
whichever is higher.
         (b)   The mercantile establishment shall be entitled to collect such
mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil judgment. This penalty shall be in
addition to the mercantile establishment’s rights to recover the stolen
merchandise.
      (4)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior shoplifting
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3A-3)
(Prior Code, § 533.01)
§ 136.02 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, railroad car, railroad engine,
trailer, aircraft or sleeping car, and “to enter a conveyance” includes taking
apart any portion of the conveyance.
         CULTIVATED LAND. That land which has been cleared of its natural
vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture or
trees or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
         FENCED LAND. That land which has been enclosed by a fence of
substantial construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron,
steel, barbed wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three
feet in height. For the purpose of this definition, it shall not be necessary
to fence any boundary or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by
water and is posted with signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
         IN THE COURSE OF COMMITTING. An act is committed IN THE COURSE OF
COMMITTING if it occurs in an attempt to commit the offense or in flight after
the attempt or commission.
         POSTED LAND.
            1.   Land that has:
               a.   Signs placed not more than 500 feet apart, along and at
each corner of the boundaries of the land. The signs shall be reasonably
maintained, with letters of not less than two inches in height, and the words
“no trespassing”. The signs shall be placed along the boundary line and at all
roads, driveways and gates of entry onto the posted land so as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line; or
               b.   Boundaries marked with a clearly visible purple painted
marking, consisting of one vertical line no less than eight inches in length
and two inches in width, and the bottom of the mark not less than three nor
more than six feet from the ground or normal water surface. Such marks shall be
affixed to immovable, permanent objects that are no more than 100 feet apart
and readily visible to any person approaching the property. Signs shall also be
posted at all roads, driveways or gates of entry onto the posted land so as to
be clearly noticeable from outside the boundary line.
            2.   It is not necessary to give notice by posting on any enclosed
land or place not exceeding five acres in area on which there is a dwelling
house or property that by its nature and use is obviously private in order to
obtain the benefits of this section pertaining to trespass on enclosed lands.
         STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent,
which has a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
         TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in or under the
property of another, but shall not include the following:
            1.   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions or by the
officers, agencies or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law;
            2.   The exercise of rights in, under or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement whether by written or prescriptive right;
            3.   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be trespass unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry;
            4.   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under or upon such property; and
            5.   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
      (2)   Where lands are posted, cultivated or fenced as described herein,
then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be considered as
enclosed and posted.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-1)
   (B)   Trespass in structure or conveyance. Any person who knowingly enters
in, upon or under a structure or conveyance without being authorized, licensed
or invited, or having been authorized, licensed or invited is requested to
depart by the owner, tenant or the agent of such owner or tenant, and refuses
to do so, shall be fined not more than $100. If the offender is armed with a
firearm or other dangerous weapon while in the structure or conveyance, with
the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being in such
structure or conveyance at the time the offender knowingly trespasses, such
offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be
subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99(A).
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-2)
   (C)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
      (1)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing or cultivation,
shall be fined as follows.
         (a)   First offense conviction. Upon a first trespassing conviction
pursuant to division (A) of this section, the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
         (b)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second trespassing conviction
pursuant to division (A) of this section, the person shall be fined not less
than $500 nor more than $1,000.
         (c)   Third offense conviction. Upon a third and subsequent
trespassing conviction pursuant to division (A) of this section, the person
shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
      (2)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally communicated
to him or her by the owner, tenant or agent of such owner or tenant, or if the
offender opens any door, fence or gate, and thereby exposes animals, crops or
other property to waste, destruction or freedom, or causes any damage to
property by such trespassing on property other than a structure or conveyance,
he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
130.99(A).
      (3)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being
during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other than
a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of W. Va. Code § 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or fined not more
than $100, or both.
      (4)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the amount of twice
the amount of such damage, provided, that the provisions of this section shall
not apply in a labor dispute.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3B-3)
(Prior Code, § 533.02)
§ 136.03 PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny as defined in W. Va. Code § 61-3-13
within the town.
(Prior Code, § 533.03)
§ 136.04 DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-18) (Prior Code, § 533.04)
§ 136.05 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (B)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-30) (Prior Code, § 533.05)
§ 136.06 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire or other conductor of gas, water or
electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, or water or
any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to supply
gas, water or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner, orifice or any other
device, by or at which gas, water or electric energy is consumed, around or
without passing through the meter provided for measuring and registering the
quantity of gas, water or electric energy consumed, or in any other manner so
as to evade payment therefor, and no person, with like intent, shall injure or
alter any gas, water or electric meter, or obstruct its action.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-44)
   (B)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor or other instrument
with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas or electric energy, without the
knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor. (W.
Va. Code § 61-3-45)
   (C)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (D)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for distribution of
television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound or other transmission.
(Prior Code, § 533.06)
§ 136.07 DAMAGING FENCES.
   No person shall, without the consent of the owner or occupier thereof, enter
into the enclosed lands of another and do any damage, or shall without such
consent pull down in whole or in part, or injure, any fence of another, or
without permission open and leave open the gate or drawbars of another. Such
person shall be liable to the party injured for the damages sustained by such
injury. It shall be no defense to any prosecution or suit under this section
that such fence was not a lawful fence.
(Prior Code, § 533.07)
§ 136.08 OBSTRUCTION OF STREAMS AND WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   No person shall erect any building, wall, bridge, foundation or
abutment in, through, and across any stream of flowing water or natural
watercourse, or established drain or deflect or change any such
stream of flowing water or natural watercourse, or established drain or deflect
or change any such stream or watercourse from an existing or natural position
by any such building, foundation, wall or other structure, or any way dam or
obstruct any stream or natural watercourse within the town without first
securing the consent of the Town Council. Such consent shall be either in
writing or by entry upon the minutes of any regular meeting and the Town
Council shall not consider any application to accomplish any of such things
until the person desiring to change, obstruct, dam or bridge any such stream or
watercourse shall have first submitted such application in writing together
with a blueprint or plan of such proposed changes or constructions. The Town
Council may exercise its discretion in granting or refusing any buildings,
walls, foundations and bridges or for the doing of any other thing, any such
construction or act which interferes in any way with the existing bed or course
of any stream or other watercourse, or may postpone its decision for any
reasonable time to permit investigation by the Town Engineer or other official.
   (B)   This section is enacted for the common benefit of all of the people of
the town for the purpose of protection against future floods and damage to
public and private property which are caused or may be caused by the changing
or obstructing of the natural or existing course of any stream or watercourse
within the town.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty under this code, the town or any
private property owner may
recover of and from a convicted violator the reasonable value of the damage to
his or its property including both the real estate and personal property which
shall be proved to be a result of such violation.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Council may from time to time ascertain wither or not
any exiting building, wall or other structure or the operation of any business
within the town obstructs, dams, or interferes with the bed or natural course
or the normal flowing of any stream of water in or about the town so as to
endanger life, property, or the public health.
      (2)   If any such building or other structure after due investigation is
found to do so, the Town Council shall notify in writing the person owning or
controlling such building or other structure or alter and change or cease the
operation of such business in such manner.
   (E)   Each owner or operator shall be given a reasonable time after such
notice to comply with the provisions thereof. If any owner or operator shall
fail refuse, or neglect to remove, alter or change such obstruction of such
streams, the town may by mandatory injunction compel the removal of the
operation
thereof or the change in such operation.
   (F)   In the event the town shall remove or change such obstructions, the
cost thereof may be collected from the owner or operator of such obstruction
who shall have failed, refused or neglected to comply with the notice given by
the Town Council.
   (G) For the purpose of this section, all such buildings or other structures
and all operations of business that shall obstruct, deflect or interfere with
the natural or normal bed, current, flow or course of any stream in or about
the town shall be deemed a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 533.08)
§ 136.09 POLITICAL SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall place any political sign on any public property.
(Prior Code, § 533.09)
§ 136.10 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   No person shall steal, fraudulently secrete or destroy a public record.
(Prior Code, § 533.10)
§ 136.11 LITTERING.
   (A)   It has been determined that this section applies to all individuals
that litter within the town limits.
   (B)   The Council agrees to ensure that any and all motorized vehicle
traffic by users through the town be properly licensed, if required, in
accordance with all local, state and federal rules and regulations.
   (C)   W. Va. Code §§ 8-12-5, 17C-14-14 and 7-1-3ff and W. Va. Code Chapter
22, Article 15 shall be and are adopted for all purposes to prevent littering.
   (D)   The town adopts these additional rules concerning littering:
      (1)   To prevent by proper penalties the throwing, depositing or
permitting to remain on any street, avenue, road, alley, way, sidewalk, square
or other public place any glass, scrap iron, nails, tacks, wire, other litter
or any offensive matter or anything likely to injure the feet of individuals or
animals or the tires of vehicles;
      (2)   To prohibit the accumulation and require the disposal of garbage,
refuse, debris, wastes, ashes, trash and other similar accumulations whether on
private or public property; provided, that, in the event the municipality
annexes an area which has been receiving solid waste collection services from a
certificated solid waste motor carrier, the municipality and the solid waste
motor carrier may negotiate an agreement for continuation of the private solid
waste motor carrier services for a period of time, not to exceed three years,
during which time the certificated solid waste motor carrier may continue to
provide exclusive solid waste collection services in the annexed territory;
      (3)   To construct, establish, acquire, equip, maintain and operate
incinerator plants and equipment and all other facilities for the efficient
removal and destruction of garbage, refuse, wastes, ashes, trash and other
similar matters; and
      (4)   To provide for the elimination of hazards to public health and
safety and to abate or cause to be abated anything which in the opinion of a
majority of the governing body is a public nuisance.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped or thrown, any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state or within 100 feet of
the waters of this state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (F)   The Commissioner shall assess points against the driver’s license of
any driver of a motor vehicle or other conveyance found guilty of violating
this section upon receiving notice from a Circuit Clerk, magistrate court or
municipal court of this state of the conviction. Circuit Clerks, magistrate
courts and municipal courts of this state shall promptly notify the
Commissioner of the convictions.
   (G)   In addition to any penalty imposed for littering under the provisions
of W. Va. Code Chapter 20, Article 7, any driver of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance convicted of violating this section shall have three points assessed
against his or her driver’s license.
   (H)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it can not be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
   (I)   If any litter is placed, deposited, dumped, discharged, thrown or
caused to be placed, deposited, dumped or thrown from a motor vehicle, boat,
airplane or other conveyance, it is prima facie evidence that the owner or the
operator of the motor vehicle, boat, airplane or other conveyance intended to
violate the provisions of this section.
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section by placing,
depositing, dumping or throwing or causing to be placed, deposited, dumped or
thrown any litter, not collected for commercial purposes, in an amount not
exceeding 100 pounds in weight or 27 cubic feet in size, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, he or she is subject to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $1,000, or in the discretion of the court, sentenced to
perform community service by cleaning up litter from any public highway, road,
street, alley or any other public park or public property, or waters of the
state, as designated by the court, for not less that eight nor more than 16
hours, or both.
   (K)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section by placing,
depositing, dumping or throwing or causing to be placed, deposited, dumped or
thrown any litter, not collected for commercial purposes, in an amount greater
than 100 pounds in weight or 27 cubic feet in size, but less than 500 pounds in
weight or 216 cubic feet in size is guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction he
or she is subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $2,000, or in
the discretion of the court, maybe sentenced to perform community service by
cleaning up litter from any public highway, road, street, alley or any other
public park or public property, or waters of the state, as designated by the
court, for not less than 16 nor more than 32 hours, or both.
   (L)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section by placing,
depositing, dumping or throwing or causing to be placed, deposited, dumped or
thrown any litter in an amount greater than 500 pounds in weight or 216 cubic
feet in size or any amount which had been collected for commercial purposes, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction the person is subject to a fine not
less than $2,500 or not more than $25,000, or confinement in a county or
regional jail for not more than one year or both. In addition, the violator may
be guilty of creating or contributing to an open dump as defined in W. Va. Code
§ 22-15-2 and subject to the enforcement provisions of W. Va. Code § 22-15-15.
   (M)   Any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of this
section is subject to double the authorized range of fines and community
service for the division violated.
   (N)   The sentence of litter cleanup shall be verified by conservation
officers from the Division of Natural Resources or environmental inspectors
from the Division of Environmental Protection. Any defendant receiving the
sentence of litter cleanup shall provide within a time to be set by the court
written acknowledgment from a conservation officer or environmental inspector
that the sentence has been completed and the litter has been disposed of
lawfully.
   (O)   Any person who has been found by the court to have willfully failed to
comply with the terms of a litter cleanup sentence imposed by the court
pursuant to this section is subject to, at the discretion of the court, double
the amount of the original fines and community service penalties.
   (P)   Any indication of ownership found in litter shall be prima facie
evidence that the person identified violated the provisions of this section;
provided, that no inference may be drawn solely from the presence of any logo,
trademark, trade name or other similar mass reproduced things of identifying
character appearing on the found litter.
   (Q)   (1)   Every person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to disposing
of litter in violation of division (E) of this section shall pay a civil
penalty in the sum of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000 as costs for
cleanup, investigation and prosecution of the case, in addition to any other
court costs that the court is otherwise required by law to impose upon a
convicted person.
      (2)   The Clerk of the Circuit Court, magistrate court or municipal court
in which these additional costs are imposed shall, on or before the last day of
each month, transmit 50% of a civil penalty received pursuant to this section
to the State Treasurer for deposit in the state treasury to the credit of a
Special Revenue Fund to be known as the Litter Control Fund which is hereby
continued. Expenditures for purposes set forth in this section are not
authorized from collections but are to be made only in accordance with
appropriation and in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 12,
Article 3 and upon fulfillment of the provisions set forth in W. Va. Code
Chapter 5A, Article 2. Amounts collected which are found from time to time to
exceed the funds needed for the purposes set forth in this section may be
transferred to other accounts or funds and designated for other purposes by
appropriation of the legislature.
   (R)   (1)   The remaining 50% of each civil penalty collected pursuant to
this section shall be transmitted to the county or regional solid waste
authority in the county where the litter violation occurred.
      (2)   Moneys shall be expended by the county or regional solid waste
authority for the purpose of litter prevention, cleanup and enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 533.11) (Ord. passed 2-9-2006)
§ 136.12 GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Graffiti Ordinance”.
   (B)   Declaration of graffiti as a public nuisance. The town hereby finds
and declares that maintenance of graffiti on public and private properties
within public view is obnoxious and constitutes a public nuisance, the
abatement of which shall be provided as set forth herein.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEFACEMENT. The intentional altering of the physical shape or physical
appearance of property.
      GRAFFITI. Any painting, marking, symbol design, inscription or other
defacement which is written, sprayed, pointed scratched, etched, engraved,
placed with an indelible marker or otherwise applied to the real or personal
property of another without prior consent of person in possession thereof.
      INDELIBLE MARKER. Any marker, pen, or similar implement which contains a
fluid which is not soluble in water and has a flat, pointed or angled writing
surface of a width of one-half inch or greater.
   (D)   Graffiti prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall permit any graffiti which is within public view on
any building, structure, tree, shrub, sidewalk or curb owned or possessed by
such a person.
      (2)   No person shall cause any graffiti to be placed upon any public or
private property, including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, trees,
shrubs, sidewalks, curbs, streets, signs, mailboxes, lamp posts, fences,
viaducts and train trestles.
      (3)   No person shall cause the defacement of public or private property,
including, but not limited to, buildings, structures, trees, shrubs, sidewalks,
curbs, streets, signs, mailboxes, lamp posts, fences, viaducts and train
trestles.
   (E)   Notice to owner or possessor of property. Whenever the Mayor, or his
or her designee, determines that graffiti is being maintained upon any building
or structure within the town which has been unoccupied for a period of more
than 30 days in violation of this section, the Mayor or his or her designee,
shall send written notice and order to the owner or possessor of the premises
of such condition and shall require that the graffiti be removed. The notice
and order shall state that the owner must remove the graffiti or consent to its
removal by the town within 30 days from the date the notice was mailed;
provided, the owner or possessor of premises may within ten days of being
served with such notice and order, apply to the Mayor for a public hearing on
the matter, in which case the terms of such notice and order shall be stayed
pending the resolution of the public hearing.
   (F)   Removal. If the property owner and possessor fail to remove the
graffiti as ordered by the Mayor, he or she or his or her designee shall have
the following authority to cause its removal.
      (1)   Property owners’ consent to remove. Whenever the Mayor or his or
her designee determines that graffiti on property which is within public view
the Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to provide for and use public
funds, if necessary, to remove graffiti upon the following conditions.
         (a)   Public property. Whenever the Mayor or his or her designee
determines that graffiti exists on property owned by the town, it shall be
removed as soon as possible. When the property is owned by a public entity
other than the town, the removal of the graffiti is authorized after securing
written consent of the public agency having jurisdiction over the property.
         (b)   Private property.
            1.   Where the subject property is privately owned, the removal of
graffiti is authorized after the Mayor or his or her designee secures the
written consent of owner of the property and the owner executes a release and
waiver approved as to form by the Town Attorney.
            2.   The town will assess the cost of the abatement of the property
owner, which if ignored will become a lien against the property.
         (c)   Removal of graffiti area. The graffiti shall be removed as
authorized herein, but the removal shall not involve the painting or repair of
a more extensive area than necessary for such removal.
      (2)   Removal by town without consent of property owner. The Mayor may
abate any graffiti without the consent of the property owner, maintained
contrary to the provisions of this section only after the following has
occurred:
         (a)   The Mayor has determined that graffiti within public view exists
on particular premises within the town;
         (b)   A notice of such condition has been sent to the property owner;
and
         (c)   The property owner has failed to either remove the graffiti,
request a public hearing, request a review of order pursuant to state law or
consent to its removal by the town within the time period specified in the
notice.
      (3)   Remedies. The remedies provided in this section and chapter are in
addition to other remedies and penalties available under the laws of the town,
the state and the United States.
   (G)   Penalty. Any person who is found guilty of violating any section of
this section may be fined up to $500 per day of occurrences.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2013)
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
136.05(B) shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 533.99)
CHAPTER 137: RAILROADS
Section
   
137.01   Obstructing railroad crossings
   
137.02   Trespassing
 
   
137.99   Penalty
§ 137.01 OBSTRUCTING RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARRIER, RAILROAD or RAILROAD COMPANY. A common carrier by railroad.
      TRAIN or TRAINS. Engines, cars and any type of railroad equipment or
rolling stock, or any part thereof, capable of blocking any crossing of a
railroad track or tracks and any public street, road or highway.
   (B)   Blocking of crossing prohibited; time limit.
      (1)   No railroad company, except in an emergency, shall order, allow or
permit the operation of or operate its system so that a train blocks the
passage of vehicular traffic over the railroad crossing of any public street,
road or highway for a period longer than ten minutes. This division (B) does
not apply to an obstruction of any such street, road or highway caused by a
continuously moving train or caused by circumstances wholly beyond the control
of the railroad, but does apply to all other obstructions as aforesaid,
including, but not limited to, those caused by a stopped train or a train
engaged in switching, loading or unloading operations.
      (2)   Upon receiving notification from a law enforcement officer, member
of a fire department, operator of an emergency medical vehicle, or a member of
an emergency services provider that emergency circumstances require the
immediate clearing of a public highway railroad grade crossing, the members of
the train crew of the train, railroad car or equipment, or engine blocking such
crossing shall immediately notify the appropriate railroad dispatcher of the
pending emergency situation. Upon receipt of notice of such emergency
circumstances by the train crew or dispatcher, the railroad shall immediately
clear the crossing, consistent with the safe operation of the train.
   (C)   Responsibility of railroad company. The railroad company shall be
solely responsible for the acts of its agents and employees in violating any
provision of this section.
   (D)   Presumption. There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a train is
operated by the carrier whose marks, numbers, signs and symbols of
identification appear on the engine or caboose of such train.
   (E)   Service of process. Process issuing for a violation of this section
may be served upon the engineer or conductor of the train causing a violation
of the provisions of this section or any other officer, agent or attorney-in-
fact of the railroad company authorized by law to receive service of summons or
other process issuing against such railroad company.
(W. Va. Code § Art. 31-2A) (Prior Code, § 541.01)
§ 137.02 TRESPASSING.
   No person not a passenger or employee, shall be found trespassing upon any
railroad or traction car or train of any railroad, by jumping on or off any car
or train in motion, on its arrival at or departure from any station or depot of
such railroad, or on the passage of any such car or train over any part of such
railroad; nor shall any person drive any horse or any horse-drawn or motor-
driven vehicle across or upon any railroad track or bridge, except at public or
private crossings.
(W. Va. Code § 61-3-43) (Prior Code, § 541.02)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99 for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Any railroad company, carrier or railroad violating the provisions of
§
137.01(B)(1) shall be fined not less than $150; upon a second conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
less than $250; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the same
crossing within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined not less
than $350.
   (C)   Any railroad company, carrier or railroad violating the provisions of
§
137.01(B)(2) shall be fined not less than $1,000; upon a second conviction
occurring at the same crossing within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
less than $2,500; and upon a third or subsequent conviction occurring at the
same crossing within one year after the first conviction, shall be fined not
less than $5,000.
(W. Va. Code § 31-2A-6)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
137.02 shall be fined not more than $25 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both.
(Prior Code, § 541.99)
CHAPTER 138: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
138.01   License required for carrying weapons
   
138.02   Breach of peace
   
138.03   Display of deadly weapons; reporting purchases
   
138.04   Fireworks sale, possession and discharge
   
138.05   Discharging firearms
   
138.06   Throwing or shooting missiles
   
138.07   Air rifles
 
   
138.99   Penalty
§ 138.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR CARRYING WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person without a state license, or as may otherwise be lawfully
authorized, shall carry about his or her person any revolver or pistol, dirk,
bowie knife, switchblade knife, sling shot, razor, billy, metallic or other
false knuckles, karate stick by whatever name known, or other dangerous or
deadly weapon of like kind or character.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-1) (Prior Code, § 545.01)
§ 138.02 BREACH OF PEACE.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (B) of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $5,000 or shall be confined in the county jail for not more than
one year, or both fined and confined, except that where the person violating
division (B) is other than a natural person, the person shall be fined not more
than $10,000.
   (B)   A person may not knowingly sell, rent, give or lend, or, where the
person is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
knowingly sell, rent, give or lend, any deadly weapon other than a firearm to a
person prohibited from possessing a deadly weapon other than a firearm by any
provision of this chapter.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-10) (Prior Code, § 545.02)
§ 138.03 DISPLAY OF DEADLY WEAPONS; REPORTING PURCHASES.
   No person shall place or keep on public display for rent or sale to passers-
by on a street, road or alley, any revolver, pistol, dirk, bowie knife, sling
shot or any other dangerous weapon of like kind or character, any machine gun,
submachine gun or high-powered rifle, any gun of similar kind or character or
any ammunition for the same. All dealers licensed to .sell any of the foregoing
arms or weapons shall take the name, address, age and general appearance of the
purchaser, as well as the maker of the gun, manufacturer’s serial number and
the caliber and report the same at once in writing to the Police Chief. (W. Va.
Code § 61-7-9) (Prior Code, § 545.03)
§ 138.04 FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION AND DISCHARGE.
   (A)   FIREWORKS means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, or other fireworks of like
construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable compound,
or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, except that
the term FIREWORKS shall not include:
      (1)   Model rockets and model rocket engines, designed, sold and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable acro models and shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
manufactured in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation
regulations for packing and shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and
toy paper or plastic caps manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of
which shall be permitted at all times. Each package containing toy paper or
plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum
explosive content per cap;
      (2)   The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered
fireworks and require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to
sell, as provided in W. Va. Code § 11-12-86:
         (a)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols, provided
that the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed twenty-five hundredths
of a grain for each cap;
         (b)   Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a
pyrotechnic mixture that produce a large snake-like ash when burning;
         (c)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke; and
         (d)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to
surprise the user and which include:
            1.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item
containing not in excess of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive
mixture. A string protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device,
expelling paper streamers and producing a small report;
            2.   A string popper which is a small tube containing not in excess
of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture with string
protruding from both ends. The strings are pulled to activate the friction-
sensitive mixture, producing a small report; and
            3.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small paper wrapped item
containing no more than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture
coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
         (e)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition. These items must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item.
         (f)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and
sometimes a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or
explode, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the
air and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not
more than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided, that
sparklers and sparkler devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to
anyone below the age of 16 years old.
(W. Va. Code § 29-3E-2)
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks, provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the State Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs, and
the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided hereinafter. Every such
display shall be handled by a competent operator licensed or certified as to
competency by the State Fire Marshal and shall be of such composition,
character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the Fire
Chief, after proper inspection, and of the Police Chief shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. After such privilege shall have
been granted, the sale, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted hereunder
shall be transferable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum not less
than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this section and
W. Va. Code Chapter 29, Article 3E and the regulations of the State Fire
Commission, provided, that the municipality shall not be required to file such
bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm or
corporation or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character and
form as the State Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the protection of
the public.
(W. Va. Code §§ 29-3E-4 and 29-3E-5)
(Prior Code, § 545.04)
§ 138.05 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol or other firearm within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 545.05)
§ 138.06 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw, shoot or propel an arrow, missile, pellet, stone,
metal or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to persons or
property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of another, or from
any private property into or onto any public place or the property of another.
This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or instruction nor
when otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Prior Code, § 545.06)
§ 138.07 AIR RIFLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
corporate limits of the town to fire or discharge any air rifle, air gun, sling
shot, or any other similar weapons within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $5 nor
more than $100 and may be confined in jail not less than five nor more than 30
days or both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the trial
officer.
(Prior Code, § 545.07) (Ord. passed 2-4-1957)
  
§ 138.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   See §
130.99(A) for general code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (B)   Any person:
      (1)   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction of a
felony crime of violence against the person of another or of a felony sexual
offense; or
      (2)   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction of a
felony controlled substance offense involving a Schedule I controlled substance
other than marijuana, a Schedule II or a Schedule III controlled substance as
such are defined in W. Va. Code §§ 60A-2-204, 60A-2-205 and 60A-2-206, and who
possesses a firearm shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code § 61-7-7) (Prior Code, § 545.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
153.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Construction
   
150.001   Permit required
   
150.002   Submission of plans
   
150.003   Sidewalks
Vacant and Uninhabitable Structure Registration
   
150.015   Adoption
   
150.016   Purpose
   
150.017   Definitions
   
150.018   Applicability
   
150.019   Exemptions
   
150.020   Registration information
   
150.021   Fees
   
150.022   Publication
   
150.023   Changes in ownership
   
150.024   Inspections
   
150.025   Uninhabitable structure inspections, monitoring and corrective action
   
150.026   Right of appeal for vacant structure designation
   
150.027   Right of appeal for uninhabitable structure designation
   
150.028   Nonpayment of fees/liens
   
150.029   Vacant structure security and maintenance regulations
   
150.030   Relation to other codes and laws
Safe Structures and Sites
   
150.045   Authority
   
150.046   Effective date
   
150.047   Title
   
150.048   Purpose
   
150.049   Jurisdiction
   
150.050   Severability
   
150.051   Definitions
   
150.052   Enforcement agency; membership
   
150.053   Enforcement agency; meetings
   
150.054   Enforcement agency rules for conducting investigations
   
150.055   Institution of proceeding before the town
   
150.056   Service of a copy of the enforcement agency petition/complaint upon
the property owner
   
150.057   Failure of the property owner to request a hearing before the town
upon the petition; complaint of the enforcement agency
   
150.058   Setting a date and time for a hearing on the petition; complaint of
the enforcement agency when requested by the property owner
   
150.059   Hearing before the town
   
150.060   Findings of fact, determination, conclusion of law; orders
   
150.061   Appeals
   
150.062   Procedures for contracting with vendors
Building Fees
   
150.075   Fees
 
   
150.999   Penalty
CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.001 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   In order to provide for a uniform plan for the laying, construction
and maintenance of sidewalks within the town, this subchapter is hereby enacted
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring or planning to construct,
lay, relay, repair or replace any sidewalk now in existence or to be
constructed, laid, relaid, repaired or replaced in the future within the
corporite limits of the town and abutting upon any highway, street, alley or
other public way within said town shall before any work is undertaken in
connection with such construction, laying, relaying, repairing or replacing of
said sidewalk shall first obtain from the Town Council or from its delegated
officer, a permit thereof.
(Ord. passed - -1955)
§ 150.002 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   Before such permit shall be granted plans and specifications, of a detailed
nature, for such proposed work shall be submitted to the Town Council, or its
delegated officer, for inspection and approval. Such plans must show the
height, elevation, width, thickness and grade of said proposed sidewalk
together with the forms to be used in its construction, the base material upon
which said sidewalk is to be laid, the mixture and composition of the concrete
from which the sidewalk is to be constructed, the proposed treatment that said
concrete shall receive in the curing stage, and any and all other matters
deemed pertinent and necessary to the Town Council or to the delegated officer
of said Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -1955)
§ 150.003 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Before any such permit is granted by the Town Council or its delegated
officer for any sidewalk within the corporate limits of town abutting on any
state highway it shall first be ascertained from the State Road Commission by
the property owner or person, firm or corporation undertaking the work of
constructing, repairing, replacing, laying or relaying of any sidewalk the
grade and elevation of the state highway upon which said sidewalk abuts or will
abut and any sidewalk so abutting upon said state highway shall conform with
the said grade and elevation of said state highway. After said permit is
granted such sidewalk work shall be undertaken and completed in conformity, in
every respect, with the plans and specifications as approved by the Town
Council or its delegated officer.
   (B)   Any sidewalk constructed, repaired, laid, relaid or replaced from and
after the enactment of this subchapter which shall not conform with the plans
and specifications as approved or which shall be constructed, repaired, laid,
relaid or replaced with a permit therefore first being obtained shall be at the
expense of the property owner of the property on which said sidewalk is located
or at the expense of the person, firm or corporation under whose direction such
sidewalk was constructed, laid, relaid, repaired or replaced.
(Ord. passed - -1955)
VACANT AND UNINHABITABLE STRUCTURE REGISTRATION
§ 150.015 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby established a vacant structure registration program and also
an uninhabitable structure registration program for the town.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.016 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town has determined that uninspected and unmonitored vacant
structures:
      (1)   Present a fire hazard;
      (2)   Are often utilized by vagrants and transients (including drug
abusers and traffickers) as dangerous and unsafe temporary shelters;
      (3)   Detract from private and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or
maintain surrounding structures; and
      (4)   Require additional regulation and services to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   Owners of vacant structures shall register such vacant structures with
the town, make payment of a fee as set forth herein, and otherwise conform to
the requirements of this vacant structure code. Vacant structures which are
also determined to be uninhabitable structures, in violation of the
International Property Maintenance Code, and unsafe for occupancy shall be
fined a separate and additional fee.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter that, through a registration,
inspection and monitoring process, and other improved public safety efforts,
vacant structures will be kept weather-tight and secure from trespassers, will
provide safe entry to police officers and firefighters in times of emergency,
will not impede private and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain
surrounding properties, and will not otherwise present a public hazard.
   (D)   It is the town’s further intent for the provisions of this subchapter
to streamline and consolidate the existing procedure (that is, complaint,
research, notification, inspection, orders, fines, liens, appeals and lien
enforcement) by placing the responsibility to register and maintain a vacant
structure on the owner of such structure before a condition of the structure
falls into disrepair or otherwise necessarily warrants a complaint.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.017 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVELY MARKETED. A property is being ACTIVELY MARKETED when its owner is,
in good faith, doing those things and performing those activities standard and
effective in the industry necessary to sell or lease a structure, including,
but not limited to, using the services of a realtor licensed in the state, or
advertising the availability of the structure for sale or lease.
   BOARDED. Vacant structure shall be deemed to be BOARDED if in place of one
or more exterior doors, other than a storm door, or of one or more windows,
there is a sheet or sheets of plywood or similar material covering the space
for such door or window.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The building inspector is the designated code
enforcement officer according to W. Va. Code § 8-12-16a(b), appointed by the
Mayor, authorized to designate structures as uninhabitable, and in violation of
the International Property Maintenance Code.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS. The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, windows, doors, roof and other parts of the exterior of the
structure and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof,
electrical and plumbing systems, water supply system, sewer system, and
sidewalk, driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced by
the building inspector in connection with codes adopted by the town as well as
all applicable local, state and federal laws.
   MULTI-UNIT STRUCTURE. A commercial or residential structure or structure
with two or more separate living or working spaces/units constructed in a
manner that would enable each separate working or living unit/space to be
occupied by, or held out for rent or lease to, two or more unrelated persons or
entities.
   OCCUPY/OCCUPIED/OCCUPIES. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be
OCCUPIED if one or more persons actually conducts a lawful business or lawfully
resides in the structure as the licensed business occupant, or as the legal or
equitable owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis,
or any combination of the same. For purposes of this section, evidence offered
to prove that a structure is so OCCUPIED may include, but shall not be limited
to, the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U.S. postal
service; proof of continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water and sewer
services; a valid town business license, or the most recent, federal, state or
town income tax statements indicating that the subject property is the official
business or residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy.
   OPEN. A vacant structure shall be deemed to be OPEN if any means of ingress/
egress lacks a properly functioning lock to secure it, or if one or more
windows is broken or not capable of being locked and secured from intrusion, or
any combination of the same.
   OWNER/PROPERTY OWNER. A person who individually or jointly with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to the property, with or without actual possession
of the property;
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of the property as owner or agent of
the owner;
      (3)   Is an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the owner;
      (4)   Is the agent of the owner for the purpose of managing, controlling
or collecting rents; or
      (5)   Is entitled to control or direct the management or disposition of
the property.
   SINGLE-UNIT STRUCTURE. A commercial or residential structure or structure
that is not a multi- unit structure.
   UNINHABITABLE STRUCTURE. A building or other structure that is not capable
or fit for occupancy because it violates this code of ordinances or the
International Property Maintenance Code to such an extent as to make it unsafe
for human occupancy for residency or business purposes.
   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRY. The property registry created pursuant to this
subchapter.
   VACANT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A single-unit structure where no person or persons actually,
currently occupies, conducts a lawfully licensed business, or lawfully resides,
dwells or lives in any part of the structure as the legal or equitable owner
(s), or tenant(s), on a permanent, non-transient basis for a period of six
months in any calendar year. A multi-unit structure where no person or persons
actually, currently occupies, conducts a lawfully licensed business, or
lawfully resides, dwells or lives in each unit/space as the legal or equitable
owner(s), or tenant(s), on a permanent, non-transient basis for a period of six
months in any calendar year.
      (2)   A structure or structure shall not be deemed vacant and subject to
the registration, the registration fee and other provisions provided herein if:
         (a)   The exterior maintenance and major systems of the structure and
the surrounding real property thereof are not in violation of the International
Property Maintenance Code or Health and Sanitation Code; and
         (b)   There is proof that all essential utility services including,
but not limited to, water, electric and gas, if applicable, are active,
uninterrupted and capable of being used without any action being taken by any
utility company.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.018 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as provided in §
150.019, this subchapter is applicable to all vacant structures and vacant and
uninhabitable structures and their owners. It is the obligation of the owner of
any property qualifying as a vacant structure to register the same with the
building inspector. Registration shall be required for all vacant structures,
whether vacant and secure, vacant and open, or vacant and boarded, and shall be
required on or before 30 days after a structure qualifies as a vacant
structure, subject to the exemptions contained herein. In no instance shall the
registration of a vacant structure and the payment of registration fees be
construed to exonerate the owner, agent or responsible party for compliance
with any other International Property Maintenance Code or Housing Code
requirement.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.019 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the requirements of this subchapter:
   (A)   Any structure owned by town, state or federal government, or any of
their respective agencies or political subdivisions;
   (B)   A new structure under construction or property that is undergoing, in
the reasonable discretion of the building inspector, an active renovation or
rehabilitation;
   (C)   A multi-unit structure with a vacancy rate that does not exceed 85%;
   (D)   Any property being actively marketed; provided, however, this
exemption shall only be available for up to 18 months for each structure
otherwise meeting the vacant structure designation, unless the owner provides
justification satisfactory to the building inspector supporting an extension of
the exemption beyond 18 months; or
   (E)   Any accessory use, as defined in the town’s zoning regulations, as
codified in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances, such as a garage or shed subservient to
an occupied principal use on the same lot.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.020 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Generally. Owners of a vacant structure shall register each vacant
structure on a form supplied by the town. The registration form shall require,
but is not limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The street address of the vacant structure;
      (2)   The type of vacant structure;
      (3)   The square footage of each vacant structure;
      (4)   The name, residence address, telephone number, e-mail address,
mobile telephone number, and facsimile number of all owners of the vacant
structure;
      (5)   The name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of the
person authorized to make or order repairs or services for the vacant
structure, if in violation of town or state codes, if the person is not the
owner;
      (6)   If an owner resides or is domiciled outside the town, the name,
address and telephone number of a person located within the town who is
designated to accept all legal notices of fees due or services of process with
respect to the vacant structure;
      (7)   If the owner is a corporation or a limited liability company, the
name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of an officer of the corporation
or limited liability company who is designated to accept all legal notices of
fees due or services of process with respect to the vacant structure;
      (8)   If the owner is an estate, the name, address and telephone number
of the executor of the estate;
      (9)   If the owner is a trust, the name, address and telephone number of
the trustee(s) designated to accept all legal notices of fees due or services
of process with respect to the vacant structure;
      (10)   If the owner is a partnership, the names, addresses and telephone
number of all partners with an interest of 10% or greater; and
      (11)   If the owner is any other form of unincorporated association, the
names addresses and telephone numbers of all principals with an interest of 10%
or greater.
   (B)   Amending information. If the registration information collected in
accordance with this section changes or becomes inaccurate during the course of
any calendar year, it is the responsibility of the owner, responsible party or
agent for the same to contact the building inspector within 30 days of the
occurrence of such change and advise the department of those changes in
writing.
   (C)   Failure to register.
      (1)   If an owner of a vacant structure has failed to register in
compliance with division (A) of this section, the building inspector may post a
notice on the subject structure directing the owner to either:
         (a)   Register the structure in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter; or
         (b)   Provide the building inspector with evidence demonstrating that
the structure is not a vacant structure as defined by this subchapter.
      (2)   In addition to posting the aforementioned notice on the structure
itself, the building inspector shall, via registered mail or via regular mail
if registered mail is unsuccessful, send a copy of the same notice to the
record owner of the property according to the tax or other public records
maintained by the assessor or sheriff of the county. If, within 30 days of
posting and mailing, the owner has neither registered the property in the
vacant property registration created by this subchapter nor demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the building inspector that the property is not a vacant
structure, then the building inspector shall add the structure to the vacant
property registry. Upon registration by the building inspector, the owner shall
be notified of the registration and billed by the town, if applicable and at
the appropriate rate.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.021 FEES.
   (A)   Vacant structure fee. There shall be a fee for each vacant structure
subject to registration on the vacant property registry. The registration fee
(s) as required by this subchapter shall be billed by the town and shall be
paid by the last day of the month when the property has been registered. The
fees shall be remitted to the town as determined by the following:
      (1)   No fee for a property that is on the vacant property registry for
less than one year;
      (2)   A $200 fee for a vacant structure that is on the vacant property
registry for at least one year but less than two consecutive years;
      (3)   A $400 fee for a vacant structure that is on the vacant property
registry for at least two consecutive years but less than three years;
      (4)   A $600 fee for a vacant structure that is on the vacant property
registry for at least three consecutive years but less than four years;
      (5)   A $800 fee for a vacant structure that is on the vacant property
registry for at least four consecutive years but less than five years; and
      (6)   A $1,600 fee for a vacant structure that is on the vacant property
registry for at least five years, plus an additional $300 for each year in
excess of five years.
   (B)   Uninhabitable structure fee. If a vacant structure is also
uninhabitable such that it is in violation of the International Property
Maintenance Code and unsafe for occupancy, there shall be a separate and
additional fee added to the above vacant structure fee, in the amount of $100
per calendar year and continuing each year thereafter until the owner shall
apply for and be granted an exemption, or otherwise present proof to the
building inspector that the real property no longer contains an uninhabitable
structure.
   (C)   Year; defined. For the purposes of this section, a year is 365 days.
   (D)   One-time waiver of registration fee. The building inspector may, on a
case-by-case basis and for good cause shown, grant a one-time waiver of the
registration fee, or an extension of a waiver for up to 90 days from the date
of the current billing statement upon written application of the owner and upon
review and advice of the Mayor; if the owner:
      (1)   Demonstrates with satisfactory proof that he or she is in the
process of demolition, rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant
building; and
      (2)   Objectively demonstrates a reasonable anticipated length of time
for the demolition, rehabilitation or other substantial repair of the vacant
building;
      (3)   Provides satisfactory proof he or she was actively attempting to
sell or lease the property during the vacancy period; or
      (4)   Provides satisfactory proof, to be evaluated on a case-by-case
basis, that the vacancy is temporary and may be due to illness of the owner,
active military service, or some other reasonable explanation believed to be
short term in nature.
   (E)   Dedicated account. All fees collected pursuant to this subchapter
shall be deposited into a separate, dedicated account and shall only be used
to:
      (1)   Repair, close or demolish a vacant structure as authorized in W.
Va. Code § 8-12-16;
      (2)   Improve public safety efforts, especially for police and fire
personnel, who most often contend with the dangerous situations manifested in
vacant properties; and
      (3)   Implement, monitor, and administer this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.022 PUBLICATION.
   The town may, from time to time and in its reasonable discretion, publish or
disclose certain information contained in the vacant property registry,
including, but not limited to:
   (A)   General demographic information about vacant structures registered on
the vacant property registry;
   (B)   The address of vacant structures on the vacant property registry;
   (C)   The owners of each vacant structure;
   (D)   The amount of time any vacant structure has been on the vacant
property registry; and
   (E)   The amount of any delinquent fees due under this subchapter, or
otherwise due to the town (e.g., refuse or utility fees) for any vacant
structure.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.023 CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP.
   A change in ownership of a vacant structure shall not remove the vacant
structure from the vacant properties registry or from the requirements of this
subchapter. Fees arising under §
150.021 shall continue to accrue at the applicable rate until the structure
either no longer constitutes a vacant structure or qualifies for an exemption
under §
150.019, all transfers of ownership notwithstanding.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.024 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The building inspector shall conduct inspections of structures on the
vacant property registry, and, to the extent feasible shall take such
reasonable steps to ensure the structure:
      (1)   Is being kept weather-tight and secure from trespassers;
      (2)   Provides for safe entry to police officers and firefighters in
times of emergency;
      (3)   Does not impede private and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or
maintain surrounding properties; and
      (4)   Otherwise does not present a public hazard. Inspections shall occur
at the time of registration and at least annually. For the purposes of this
subchapter, an inspection may be, at the discretion of the building inspector,
a visual inspection of the exterior of the vacant structure.
   (B)   Entrance upon property and into structures for the purpose of
conducting inspections shall be made in a manner that minimizes inconvenience
to any person in possession of the property or its owner.
   (C)   If a property owner or the person in possession of a property or
structure refuses to consent to and schedule inspection, the town shall seek a
search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction, which shall include the
town’s Municipal Court, to authorize inspection for determining whether a
vacant structure is:
      (1)   Uninhabitable;
      (2)   Safe for entry by firefighters and police officers in time of
emergency; and
      (3)   A hazard to the public.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.025 UNINHABITABLE STRUCTURE INSPECTIONS, MONITORING AND CORRECTIVE
ACTION.
   (A)   After inspecting properties on the vacant structure registry, if the
building inspector determines the property is uninhabitable and violates the
International Property Maintenance Code:
      (1)   The officer shall post a written notice on the property that shall
include:
         (a)   An explanation of the violation(s);
         (b)   A description of the registration;
         (c)   The date the fee will be assessed;
         (d)   An explanation of how to be removed from the registration;
         (e)   An explanation of the appeals process; and
         (f)   A statement that if the fee is not paid, the property is subject
to forfeiture.
      (2)   Within five business days of the inspection and the posting of the
property, the officer shall, by certified mail, send a copy of the notice that
was posted to the owner(s) of the property at the last known address according
to the county property tax records.
   (B)   Within 45 days of receipt of the notification by the owner(s), the
property owner may:
      (1)   Make and complete any repairs to the property that violate the
applicable International Property Maintenance Code; or
      (2)   Provide written information to the officer showing that repairs are
forthcoming in a reasonable period of time.
   (C)   (1)   After the repairs are made, the owner may request a reinspection
of the property to ensure compliance with the International Property
Maintenance Code.
      (2)   If the officer finds the violations are fixed, the owner is not
subject to the uninhabitable structure fee.
   (D)   The officer may reinspect the property at any time to determine the
progress of repairs.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.026 RIGHT OF APPEAL FOR VACANT STRUCTURE DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Request for reconsideration.
      (1)   The owner shall have the right to request reconsideration by the
building inspector of:
         (a)   The imposition of the registration fees imposed by this
subchapter; and/or
         (b)   The designation of a structure as a vacant structure by filing
an application in writing to the building inspector no later than 15 calendar
days after the date of notification to owner that a property has been placed on
the vacant property registry pursuant to §
150.020.
      (2)   On the request for reconsideration, the owner shall bear the burden
of providing satisfactory proof of occupancy, that the structure in question is
not a vacant structure, or that the structure is exempt from registration.
   (B)   Building inspector’s determination. Within 30 days, or as soon
thereafter as is practicable, after the building inspector receives an
application pursuant to division (A) of this section, the building inspector
will contact the owner and afford the owner the opportunity to appear in person
for reconsideration or waiver of fee. Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as
is practicable, after consideration of all information provided by the owner
and upon advice and consent of the Mayor, the building inspector shall grant or
deny the request in writing and provide the owner with a copy of the decision.
   (C)   Appeal of the building inspector’s decision/review committee. If the
owner filed a request pursuant to division (A) of this section and received an
unfavorable decision from the building inspector, the owner may appeal the
building inspector’s decision to a review by a committee consisting of the
Mayor, Town Recorder, one Council person and one member at-large designated by
the Mayor. An owner appealing the decision of the building inspector shall file
a written appeal with the Town Recorder, indicating the portion of the building
inspector’s decision he or she deems inaccurate or incorrect, within 15 days
after notice of the building inspector’s decision. As soon as is practicable
after receiving the appeal, the review committee shall convene an informal
hearing to hear the dispute and consider the owner’s and building inspector’s
respective positions and arguments. Notice of the informal hearing shall be
provided to the owner, and the owner shall be afforded the opportunity to
appear in person and be heard on the appeal. As soon as practicable after
conclusion of the informal hearing, the review committee shall issue its
findings and conclusions in writing either concurring with or rejecting the
findings and conclusions of the building inspector.
   (D)   Appeal of decision. Any owner may appeal a decision of the review
committee made pursuant to division (C) of this section, within 30 days of the
issuance of such decision to the Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.027 RIGHT OF APPEAL FOR UNINHABITABLE STRUCTURE DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Appeal of the building inspector’s decision/review committee: within
90 days of receipt of the notification that a structure is uninhabitable, the
property owner has the right to appeal the decision of the building inspector
to a review by a committee consisting of the Mayor, Town Recorder, one Council
person and one member at-large designated by the Mayor.
   (B)   If an appeal is not filed within 90 days, the property is registered
and the uninhabitable structure registration fee is assessed to the owner(s) on
the date specified in the notice. The notice of the fee shall be recorded in
the office of the Clerk of the county.
   (C)   If the review committee affirms the registration and assessment of the
uninhabitable structure registration fee, the property owner has the right to
appeal the review committee’s decision to the Circuit Court of the county
within 30 days of the decision. If the decision is not appealed in a timely
manner to the Circuit Court, the property is registered and the fee is assessed
on the date specified in the notice. The notice of the fee shall be recorded in
the office of the Clerk of the county.
   (D)   A fee assessed under this section for an uninhabitable structure shall
be recorded in the same manner as a lien is recorded in the office of the Clerk
of the county.
   (E)   If the uninhabitable structure registration fee is paid, the
municipality shall record a release of the fee in the office of the Clerk of
the county.
   (F)   If an owner fails to pay the uninhabitable structure registration fee,
the building inspector shall annually post the written notice on the property
and send the written notice to the owner(s) by certified mail.
   (G)   If an uninhabitable structure registration fee remains delinquent for
two years from the date it was placed on record in the office of the Clerk of
the county, the municipality may take action to receive the subject property by
means of forfeiture by filing an action in the Circuit Court. Should the
municipality take the steps necessary to receive the subject property, the
municipality then becomes the owner of record and takes the property subject to
all liens and real and personal property taxes.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.028 NONPAYMENT OF FEES/LIENS.
   (A)   Except for those owners who have properly perfected an appeal, if an
owner fails to pay any amount due, said amount shall constitute a debt due and
the town may commence a civil action to collect such unpaid debt. In the event
service is not attained by certified mail, alternative means of service may be
used consistent with the West Virginia Rules of Civil Procedure for service.
   (B)   In lieu of, or in addition to, commencing a civil action as authorized
by §
150.027(A), the town may, in accordance and conjunction with W. Va. Code § 8-
12-16c(d), file a lien for unpaid registration fees against the property where
the vacant structure is situated.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.029 VACANT STRUCTURE SECURITY AND MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a vacant structure to ensure
the following.
   (A)   (1)   Vacant structures shall be secured so as not to be accessible to
unauthorized persons.
      (2)   Securing of vacant structures includes, but is not limited to,
closing and locking windows, doors, walk through sliding and garage gates, and
any other openings that may allow access to the interior of the structure.
      (3)   In the case of broken windows, securing means re-glazing or
boarding the windows.
   (B)   The owner shall inspect the property on a regular basis to determine
if the structure is in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter and
all applicable provisions of the town’s International Property Maintenance
Code.
   (C)   The owner of a vacant structure shall perform or provide for the
performance of periodic maintenance including:
      (1)   Exterior property areas shall be mowed regularly and non-cultivated
gardens maintained at no more than 17 inches of growth. All noxious weeds are
prohibited;
      (2)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components shall be
removed;
      (3)   Unstable or unsound accessory structures shall be razed or
renovated;
      (4)   All loose, deteriorated, missing or broken windows and doors shall
be covered by using wood sheet goods or better, to be cut and neatly fit to the
opening;
      (5)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter or overhang extensions
(masonry or frame) shall be repaired, securely reattached, or removed to
prevent falling; and
      (6)   Regular routine monitoring of the structure shall occur by the
owner to ensure that the structure is kept in compliance with the above items.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
§ 150.030 RELATION TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS.
   (A)   The intent and purpose of this subchapter are separate and distinct
from other parts and sections of the town code of ordinances and the general
laws of the state that may also be applicable.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to the owners of such
vacant structures as set forth herein and are in addition to and not in lieu of
any and all other applicable provisions of this town code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
SAFE STRUCTURES AND SITES
§ 150.045 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted by virtue of the authority granted in W. Va. Code
§ 7-1-3, as amended.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.046 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 30 days after the date on which the
town acts to adopt and the members of the enforcement agency have been selected
and appointed.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.047 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be titled and cited as the “Town of Oceana Safe
Structures and Sites Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.048 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the public safety or welfare of
the town by requiring, as the case may be, the repair, alteration, improvement,
vacating, closing, removal or demolition of dwellings or other buildings, or
any combination thereof, unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation,
defects increasing the hazard of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of
ventilation, light or sanitary facilities or other conditions prevailing in any
dwelling or building, whether used for human habitation or not, which would
cause such dwellings or other buildings to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or
detrimental to the public safety or welfare, whether the result of natural or
human-made force or effect, exclusive of buildings utilized for farm purposes
on land actually being used for farming; and by requiring, as the case may be,
the removal and clean up of any accumulation of refuse or debris, overgrown
vegetation or toxic spillage or toxic seepage located on private lands which is
determined to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous of detrimental to the public
safety or welfare whether the result of natural or human-made force or effect.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.049 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all properties within the town, exclusive of
the incorporated towns and cities, properties of the United States government,
and of the West Virginia state government.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.050 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any chapter, section, division or provision of this subchapter be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of the subchapter as a whole or any part thereof other than
the part of so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.051 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future.
      (2)   The singular includes the plural.
      (3)   The plural includes the singular.
      (4)   The word PERSON includes a corporation, unincorporated association
or partnership, chartered associations, partnerships, natural persons, joint
ventures, joint stock company, club, company, business trust, or the manager,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
      (5)   The term SHALL is mandatory and the term MAY is permissive.
      (6)   The word TOWN shall refer to Town of Oceana, West Virginia.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLIGHTED AREA. An area (other than a slum area) which by reason of the
predominance of defective or inadequate street layout, faulty lot layout in
relation to size, adequacy, accessibility or usefulness, unsanitary or unsafe
conditions, deterioration of site improvement, diversity of ownership, tax or
special assessment delinquency exceeding the fair value of the land, defective
or unusual conditions of title, improper subdivision or obsolete platting, or
the existence of conditions which endanger life or property by fire and other
causes, or any combination of such factors, substantially impairs or arrests
the sound growth of the community, retards the provision of housing
accommodations or constitutes an economic or social liability and is a menace
to the public health, safety, morals or welfare in its present condition and
use.
      BUILDING. Any structure on a parcel of land that has one or more walls.
      COUNCIL. An elected member of the Town of Oceana, West Virginia.
      DEED. A written instrument, signed and delivered by which a person
transfers and conveys title to real estate to another person.
      DISASTER. The occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe
damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-
made cause, including fire, flood, earthquake, wind, snow, storm, chemical or
oil spill or other water or soil contamination, epidemic, air contamination,
blight, drought, infestation or other public calamity requiring emergency
action.
      DEED OF TRUST. A written instrument by which legal title to real estate
is placed in one or more trustees to secure the payment of a sum of money or
the performance of other conditions, which serves the purpose and function of a
mortgage.
      EASEMENT. A lawfully acquired right or privilege to use a parcel of land
or portion thereof for a specified purpose such as a road.
      ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. That agency of the town government charged under W.
Va. Code § 7-1-3ff with the investigation and enforcement of violations of that
statute and this subchapter. Its membership includes: Town Engineer (or other
technically qualified town employee or consulting engineer); town health
officer (or his or her designee); Chief of Police; an appointed Fire Chief; and
two other members at large selected by the town to serve a two-year term. The
Chief of Police is an ex officio member and the official charged with enforcing
the orders of the town.
      FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Areas subject to inundation by the 100-year flood as
determined by the flood insurance study prepared by the Federal Insurance
Administration for the town.
      HISTORIC SITE. Any lot, parcel, historic structure or designated area
which has been listed on the West Virginia or National Register of Historic
Places.
      JUDGMENT LIEN. A claim, encumbrance or charge on property for payment of
some debt, obligation or duty owed to another person as decreed by a court of
law and recorded among the land records of the town.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled by use of internal
combustion engine or by electrical engine which is intended to be driven upon a
highway.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, JUNKED. Any motor vehicle which is discarded, wrecked,
ruined, scrapped or dismantled which would not pass the state’s motor vehicle
inspection laws and which is not serving a reasonable functional use or purpose
and is not inside an enclosed building.
      OWNER. A person who holds legal title to any real estate or personal
property.
      PUBLIC BODY. The state or any municipality, county, township, board,
commission, authority, district or any other subdivision or public body of the
state.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes all lands including improvements and fixtures
thereon and property of any nature appurtenant thereto or used in connection
therewith, and every estate, interest and right, legal or equitable therein
including terms for years.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A right which grants passage across or through a property.
A RIGHT-OF- WAY is also the (usually dimensioned) path along which the right of
passage is granted.
      ROAD. A prepared surface within a right-of-way which is intended for
vehicular use. ROAD does not include shoulders.
      SALVAGE. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper,
rubber, trash, waste, junked, dismantled or wrecked machinery, machine or motor
vehicles or any parts of any junked, dismantled or wrecked machinery, machines
or motor vehicles, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous
materials.
      SALVAGE YARD. Any place which is maintained, operated or used for the
storing, keeping, buying, selling or processing of salvage, or for the
operation and maintenance of a motor vehicle graveyard, and the term shall also
include garbage dumps and sanitary landfills. Any collection of three or more
junked motor vehicles, or combination of ferrous or nonferrous materials
together with one or more junked motor vehicles, or a collection or any salvage
contained in an area more than one quarter acre in size, shall be considered a
salvage yard.
      SLUM AREA. An area in which there is a predominance of buildings or
improvements (or which is predominantly residential in character), and which,
by reason of dilapidation, deterioration, age or obsolescence, inadequate
provision for ventilation light, air, sanitation or open spaces, high density
of population and overcrowding, or the existence of conditions which endanger
life or property by fire and other causes, or any combination of such factors,
is conducive to ill health, transmission of disease, infant mortality, juvenile
delinquency and crime, and is detrimental to the public health, safety, morals
or welfare.
      SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility established, modified or
operated for the purpose of the disposal of solid waste as defined by West
Virginia Department of Natural Resources, Legislative Regulations for Solid
Waste Management, being found in West Virginia Administrative Code Series 47-
38, as amended.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires fixed location
on the ground; or, anything attached to something having such location. A
STRUCTURE does not include fences, individual driveways or retaining walls.
STRUCTURES do include prefabricated buildings even if they are not anchored to
the ground.
      SUBDIVISION. The partition or division of land into two or more lots,
tracts, parcels, plots, sites, areas, units, interests or other division of
land, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of offer, sale, lease,
transfer of ownership, building construction, development, or land use.
SUBDIVISION applies to all forms of development including residential,
commercial and industrial and includes the division of land either by deed,
deed of trust, contract of sale, metes and bounds description, devise,
intestacy, lease, map, plat or other instrument, or by act of construction or
land use. SUBDIVISION includes re-subdivision and, when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the land subdivided.
      TOWN. The Town of Oceana, West Virginia.
      TOWN BOARD OF HEALTH. An agency of local government either created
pursuant to W. Va. Code Chapter 16, Article 2 or W. Va. Code Chapter 16,
Article 1 to oversee the health needs of the citizens of a town in accordance
with law.
      TOWN ENGINEER. The Town Engineer, or other technically qualified town
employee or consulting engineer.
      TOWN HEALTH OFFICER. A physician appointed by the Town Board of Health
pursuant to W. Va. Code § 16-1-2, or a physician appointed by the direction of
the state’s Department of Health pursuant to W. Va. Code § 16-2-1, who is a
member of the enforcement agency.
      TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance which because of its quantity,
concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality
or an increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating or reversible
illness; or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
exclusive of any application of substances for bona fide farming operations.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.052 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY; MEMBERSHIP.
   The enforcement agency shall consist of the following members: Town Engineer
(or other technically qualified town employee or consulting engineer); town
health officer (or his or her designee); a Fire Chief from a town fire company
and two members of the general public. The Chief of Police shall serve as an ex
officio member of the enforcement agency. The town shall select and appoint two
members of the general public to serve two-year terms and shall select and
appoint a Fire Chief from a town fire company to serve a two-year term, and are
subject to reappointment. Members shall serve until their successors have been
duly selected and qualified.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.053 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The members of enforcement agency shall meet at least once a month.
The enforcement agency shall establish and publish a time and location for the
regular monthly meeting. The enforcement agency must post a notice of any other
special meeting at or near the entrance to the Town Hall no less than 48 hours
before such meeting.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the enforcement agency and on the one year
anniversary date thereafter, the members of the enforcement agency shall
appoint: one of its members to serve as its Chairperson, and one of its members
to serve as its Vice-Chairperson and one of its members to serve as its
Secretary. Each member so appointed to the office of Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson or Secretary shall serve a one- year term of office or until
replaced.
   (C)   Three members of the enforcement agency in attendance at the meeting
shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   Meetings of the enforcement agency shall comply with any open meeting
requirements contained in the West Virginia Code and in general be conducted in
accordance with Roberts Rules of Order.
   (E)   At any public meeting, the enforcement agency shall receive complaints
from the general public and/or other individuals or parties concerning
dwellings or other buildings or any combination thereof that may be unfit for
human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazard of fire,
accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities, or any other conditions prevailing in these dwellings or other
buildings whether used for human habitation or not, which would cause such
dwellings or other buildings to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental
to the public safety or welfare whether the result of natural or human-made
force or effect; and complaints concerning accumulation of refuse or debris,
overgrown vegetation or toxic spillage or toxic seepage located on private
lands which may be deemed to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to
the public safety or welfare whether the result of natural or human-made force
or effect.
   (F)   The members of the enforcement agency may, if a quorum is present, by
a majority vote of those present, accept the complaint for investigation by the
enforcement agency.
   (G)   Upon the completion of the investigation of the citizen’s complaint,
and without further public input required, the members of the enforcement
agency, relying upon the investigation report, by a majority vote of those
members present in the public session may:
      (1)   Dismiss the citizen’s complaint;
      (2)   Continue the matter over until a later meeting to permit further
investigation;
      (3)   Adopt an agreement to remedy deficiencies and continue the matter
over until a later meeting to permit the property owner time to remedy
deficiencies in accordance to an agreement between the enforcement agency and
the property owner;
      (4)   Continue the matter over until a later meeting; or
      (5)   Determine that the dwelling, building, accumulation of refuse or
debris, overgrown vegetation, toxic spillage or toxic seepage is unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public safety or welfare and should
be repaired, altered, improved, vacated, removed, closed, cleaned up or
demolished as the case may be and direct the Town Engineer (or other
technically qualified town employee or consulting engineer) to initiate
proceedings before the town by petition/complaint to seek an order of the town;
requiring the property owner to repair, alter, improve, vacate, remove, close,
clean up or demolish the dwelling or building in question within a reasonable
time, or to remove or clean up any accumulation of refuse or debris, overgrown
vegetation or toxic spillage or toxic seepage within a reasonable time; and to
impose daily civil monetary penalties upon the property owner who fails to obey
the order of the town; and if necessary, to request that the town advertise for
and seek a contractor to make the ordered repairs, alterations, improvements,
demolition, removal or clean up; and to institute a civil proceeding in the
town to subject the private land in question to a lien to satisfy; the
contractor’s costs in making the ordered repairs, alterations, improvements,
demolition, removal or clean up; the daily civil monetary penalty imposed;
reasonable attorney fees and court costs expended and to order the private land
in question sold to satisfy this lien; and order and decree that the contractor
may enter upon the private land in question to perform the ordered repairs,
alterations, improvements, demolition, removal or clean up.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.054 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY RULES FOR CONDUCTING INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the members of the enforcement agency voting to accept the
citizen’s complaint and conduct an investigation, the Town Engineer (or other
technically qualified town employee or consulting engineer) shall contact the
following public officials and ascertain the following information, if
available:
      (1)   Sheriff’s tax office to ascertain the property owner’s address, the
tax district, tax map and parcel number for the property in question; its
assessed value for both the lands and buildings; acreage or lot size if known
by the Sheriff’s tax office and the status of taxes paid or due and owing on
this property; any lien information;
      (2)   The town to ascertain any information about judgment liens, tax
liens, mechanics liens or deed of trust liens on the subject property and
obtain a copy of the deed, or other document by which the owner obtained title
to the property in question;
      (3)   Assessor’s office to ascertain lot or parcel size and a copy of a
tax map for the property in question;
      (4)   Town and/or public service district to ascertain the type of water
and sewer system serving the property in question;
      (5)   Town Fire Department(s) and/or E911 communication center to
ascertain the number of fire service or ambulance calls to that property in the
last year;
      (6)   Planning Commission (if any) to ascertain the number of improved
lots in that or nearby subdivisions, location of the property in question
insofar as flood-prone areas, river, streams, ponds, are concerned; the
location of nearby schools, hospitals and residences in the immediate area and
in the watershed area;
      (7)   United States Department of Agriculture to ascertain the types of
farming operations in the area in question and the soil types, if such
determination is necessary; and
      (8)   State police and/or town’s Police Department to ascertain the
nature and number of law enforcement problems originating from the property in
question in the last year.
   (B)   The Town Engineer (or other technically qualified town employee or
consulting engineer) shall deliver notice to the property owner by United
States mail postage prepaid and by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the property owner’s address as ascertained from the Sheriff’s tax office
informing the property owner of the general nature of the complaint and
informing the property owner that the Town Engineer (or other technically
qualified town employee or consulting engineer), the town’s Chief of Police
and/or other members of the enforcement agency will visit the property at a
specific time and date to investigate the allegations set forth in the
complaint. The notice shall inform the property owner that photographs will be
taken of the property in question and/or that soil samples may be taken from
the property in question. However, any such entrance upon the property in
question shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
   (C)   The Town Engineer (or other technically qualified town employee or
consulting engineer) shall whenever possible take written statements from the
complaining party, the property owner, neighbors and other interested persons
and attach these statements to the investigative report.
   (D)   The Town Engineer (or other technically qualified town employee or
consulting engineer) shall at the conclusion of the investigation, prepare a
written investigative report and provide a copy to each member of the
enforcement agency at least three days before the meeting of the enforcement
agency where the investigative report may be considered.
   (E)   The Town Engineer (or other technically qualified town employee or
consulting engineer) may propose an agreement between the property owner and
the enforcement agency whereby the property owner agrees to remedy all
deficiencies to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency within a designated
period of time.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.055 INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDING BEFORE THE TOWN.
   (A)   The Town Engineer (or other technically qualified town employee or
consulting engineer) may file in the office of the town, a petition/complaint
on behalf of the enforcement agency seeking and order of the town requiring the
property owner to repair, alter, improve, vacate, remove, close, clean up or
demolish the dwelling or building in question within a reasonable time; or to
remove or cleanup any accumulation of refuse or debris, overgrown vegetation or
toxic spillage or a reasonable time, and to impose daily civil monetary
penalties upon the property owner who fails to obey the order of the town; and
if necessary, to request that the town advertise for and seek a contractor to
make the ordered repairs, alterations, improvements, demolition, removal or
cleanup; and to institute a civil proceeding in the town to subject the private
land in question to a lien to satisfy; the contractor’s costs in making the
ordered repairs, alterations, improvements, demolition, removal or clean up;
the daily civil monetary penalty imposed; reasonable attorney fees and court
costs expended and to order the private land in question sold to satisfy this
lien; and order and decree that the contractor may enter upon the private land
in question to perform the ordered repairs, alterations, improvements,
demolition, removal or clean up.
   (B)   The petition/complaint shall state the findings and recommendations of
the enforcement agency and inform the property owner that upon being served
with this petition/complaint, unless the owner or owners of the property shall
file with the town at the address of Post Office Box 190, Oceana, West Virginia
24870, a written request for a hearing before the town within 20 days of
receipt of the complaint/petition, an order will be issued by the town
implementing the recommendations of the enforcement agency.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.056 SERVICE OF A COPY OF THE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY PETITION/COMPLAINT UPON
THE PROPERTY OWNER.
   The town shall receive and file the petition/complaint of the enforcement
agency and shall cause a copy thereof to be served upon the property owner in
the manner provided in Rule 4 of the West Virginia Rules of Civil Procedure.
The town shall note on the original petition/complaint the date service was
accomplished if by personal service, and cause the person making personal
service to certify that personal service was performed on that date. A copy of
this return of service shall be provided by the town to the Town Engineer (or
other technically qualified town employee or consulting engineer). If personal
service cannot be accomplished, then service shall be made in accordance with
the remaining provisions in Rule 4 of the West Virginia Rules of Civil
Procedure. In the event it becomes necessary to use subsequent services, the
address of any mailing(s) shall be the address maintained on the tax records by
the tax department in the office of the County Sheriff.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.057 FAILURE OF THE PROPERTY OWNER TO REQUEST A HEARING BEFORE THE TOWN
UPON THE PETITION; COMPLAINT OF THE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   If the property owner or owners shall fail to file with the town,
within 20 days of service of the petition/complaint upon said owner or owners,
a written request for a hearing before the town upon the petition/complaint of
the enforcement agency, the town may enter an order implementing the
determinations and recommendations of the enforcement agency and ordering, as
the case may be, the property owner to repair, alter, improve vacate, remove,
close, clean up or demolish the dwelling or building in question within a
reasonable time or to remove or clean up any accumulation of refuse or debris,
overgrown vegetation or toxic spillage or toxic seepage within a reasonable
time and to impose daily civil monetary penalties on any owner or owners who
fail to obey such an order.
   (B)   The town shall cause an order to be filed and an attested copy of such
order to be served upon the property owner or owners by United State mail
postage prepaid and be certified mail, return receipt requested, at the same
address used by the Sheriff to mail the property owner their tax bill.
   (C)   The town shall note on the file copy of the order the date of the
mailing and the address to which it was mailed.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.058 SETTING A DATE AND TIME FOR A HEARING ON THE PETITION; COMPLAINT OF
THE ENFORCEMENT AGENCY WHEN REQUESTED BY THE PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   After receipt of a written request for a hearing upon the enforcement
agency’s petition/complaint by the property owner, the town at its next regular
or special meeting shall enter an order setting this matter down for hearing at
a particular time and date within 20 days of the receipt of the written
request. In that regards the town shall note the date of the filing of the
written request upon the face of the written request.
   (B)   Upon the entry of the order setting this matter down for hearing, the
town shall file the original order and mail attested copies thereof to the
property owner, United States mail postage prepaid and by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address of the property owner at the return
address specified in the property owner’s written request or the address
utilized by the Sheriff for the property owner’s tax bill. The town shall note
on the filed order the address, date and method of mailing of each attested
copy mailed.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.059 HEARING BEFORE THE TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   The hearing before the town upon the petition/complaint of the
enforcement agency shall be either recorded by electronic device or by court
reporter. The Mayor of the town will call the hearing to order and note on the
record, each member of the Town Council in attendance and whether a quorum
exists to proceed.
      (2)   The Mayor will note on the record of presence or absence of each of
the litigants in person, pro se and or by their respective counsel. Witnesses
will be administered an oath by the Mayor prior to testifying.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor of the town will conduct the hearing and rule on
matters of procedure and law. The West Virginia Rules of Evidence shall not
apply to the proceedings, but each party shall have the right to present
evidence and examine and cross examine all witnesses.
      (2)   Documentary evidence will be marked as exhibits and if relevant and
probative admitted into evidence. The town shall have the right to recess the
hearing and visit the property in question for a view. Facts discerned by town
members on the view are evidence that may be considered. Each party shall have
the right to make an opening and a closing statement.
   (C)   The enforcement agency has the burden of proving its allegations by a
preponderance of the evidence and shall have the duly to go forward with the
evidence.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.060 FINDINGS OF FACT, DETERMINATION, CONCLUSION OF LAW; ORDERS.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the town shall by a majority vote,
make findings of fact, determinations and conclusions of law as to whether a
dwelling or building:
      (1)   Is unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation, whether the
result of natural or human- made force or effect, which would cause the
dwelling or other buildings to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous and/or
detrimental to the public safety or welfare;
      (2)   Has defects that increase the hazard of fire, accidents or other
calamities, whether the result of natural or human-made force or effect, which
would cause the dwelling or other building to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous
or detrimental to the public safety or welfare;
      (3)   Lacks ventilation, light or sanitary facilities whether the result
of natural or human-made force or effect which would cause the dwelling or
other building to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public
safety or welfare; and/or
      (4)   Has other conditions prevailing therein whether used for human
habitation or not, and whether the result of natural or human-made force or
effect, which would cause such dwelling or other building to be unsafe,
unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public safety or welfare.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the town shall, by a majority vote,
make findings of fact, determinations and conclusions of law as to whether:
      (1)   There is an accumulation of refuse and debris on private land
whether the result of natural or human-made force or effect, which would cause
such dwelling or other building to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or
detrimental to the public safety or welfare;
      (2)   There is overgrown vegetation on private lands, whether the result
of natural or human- made force effect, which would cause such dwelling or
other building to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public
safety or welfare;
      (3)   There is a toxic spillage on private lands, whether the result of
natural or human-made force or effect, which would cause such dwelling or other
building to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public
safety or welfare; and/or
      (4)   There is a toxic seepage on private lands, whether the result of
natural or human-made force or effect, which would cause such dwelling or other
building to be unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous or detrimental to the public
safety or welfare.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.061 APPEALS.
   Appeals from the decisions of the town to the Circuit Court shall be in
accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter 58, Article 3, as
amended.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
§ 150.062 PROCEDURES FOR CONTRACTING WITH VENDORS.
   (A)   Upon the failure of the property owner or owners to perform the
ordered duties and obligation as set forth in the order of the town within the
time limitation set by said order, the town may advertise for and seek
contractors to make the ordered repairs, alterations, improvements, demolition,
removal or clean up, and may enter into any contract with any such contractor
to accomplish the ordered repairs, alteration, improvements, demolition removal
or clean up.
   (B)   The town may make this contract contingent upon the order and decree
of the Circuit Court making the contractor’s costs or the contract amount in
making these ordered repairs a lien upon the private land in question and
ordering the private land in question be sold to satisfy this lien, and
ordering that the contractor may enter upon the private land in question to
make these ordered repairs.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2013)
BUILDING FEES
§ 150.075 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be paid for the erection, construction or
improvement of any building within the corporate limits of the town and that a
building permit shall first be obtained along with the rate fees as prescribed
hereinafter before actual construction, alteration or improvement has actually
begun.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, altered or improved within the corporate
limits of the town until the person desiring to erect, improve or alter the
same shall have obtained from the building inspector of said town, permission
in writing to erect, improve or alter the same.
   (C)   Any person desiring to erect, improve or alter any building or any
other type of construction within the corporate limits of the town shall make
an application in writing to the Town Recorder for permission to erect, improve
or alter such building or construction.
   (D)   The applicant shall set forth the size, kind and location of said
building and the purpose for which the same shall be used when completed. The
application shall comply in all respects to the planning and zoning regulations
of the town as codified in Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances and with said
application the applicant shall file complete plan and specification of the
materials to be used, location of flues, water and sewer connections.
   (E)   Such person desiring to erect, improve or alter such building shall
estimate the cost thereof and pay the town a fee for building permit or permits
for said building improvement or alteration the following fees:
 
For the first $1,000 cost thereof or fractional part thereof in excess of    $4
$100
For each additional $1,000 cost of said structure, improvement or alteration $2
 
   (F)   When said building improvement or alteration has been completed and
the cost thereof exceeds the amount estimated in the original application the
owner of said property shall forthwith pay to the said town the difference
based on the aforesaid rates, if said building improvement or alteration shall
cost less than the amount so estimated with the application, a refund shall be
made by said town upon order of the Council, provided the person entitled to
the same shall make an application for the same within six months after work on
said structure improvement or alteration as terminated.
   (G)   A person who desires to erect, alter or improve a building or other
structure that requires a special use permit from the Planning and Zoning
Commissioner shall, in addition to the aforestated fees, pay the cost of
publication that the Planning and Zoning Commission shall order pursuant to the
planning and zoning regulations which shall not in any case be less than $10.
(Ord. passed 9-2-1957)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The failure or refusal of any owner to register a vacant structure as
required by §§
150.015 through
150.030, or failure to comply with any of the terms of §§
150.015 through
150.030 shall constitute a violation punishable upon conviction thereof by a
fine in the amount of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each violation.
It shall be a separate violation for each month that an owner knowingly fails
or refuses to register a vacant structure as required by §§
150.015 through
150.030.
   (C)   (1)   If findings of fact, determinations and conclusion of law are
made in accordance with §§
150.045 through
150.062, the town may by majority vote, order the property owner or owners to
repair, alter, improve, vacate, remove, close, clean up or demolish the
dwelling or building in question within a reasonable time and to impose a daily
civil monetary penalty of $100 upon the property owner or owners jointly and
severally for each day after the time limitation has passed for the ordered
work to be performed and completed to the satisfaction of the town and the
ordered work has not been completed, or for any other failure to obey the order
of the town beyond the time limitation set for that compliance to have
occurred.
      (2)   If findings of fact in accordance with §§
150.045 through
150.062, determinations and conclusions of law are made, the town may, by a
majority vote, order the property owner or owners to remove or clean up any
accumulation of refuse or debris, overgrown vegetation or toxic spillage or
toxic seepage from the private land in question within a reasonable time and to
impose a daily civil monetary penalty of $100 upon the property owner or owners
jointly and severally for each day after the time limitation has passed for the
ordered work to be performed and completed to the satisfaction of the town and
the ordered work has not been completed, or for any other failure to obey the
order of the town beyond the time limitation set for that compliance to have
occurred.
   (D)   Any person who erects, improves or alters a building without first
obtaining a building permit as required and paid the fees therefore as well as
the cost of publication in violation of §
150.075, shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $50 and, at the
discretion of the trial officer be imprisoned not exceeding ten days or both
such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the trial officer.
(Ord. passed 9-2-1957; Ord. passed 9-12-2013; Ord. passed 5-9-2019)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS
Section
Street Repair
   
151.01   Short title
   
151.02   Purposes and findings
   
151.03   Covering, repairing and eliminating openings and damage on streets and
sidewalks
   
151.04   Violations
Obstructions
   
151.15   Authority
   
151.16   Findings and determination
   
151.17   Unlawful use of streets and adjacent property
   
151.18   Regulations inapplicable under Salvage Yards Law
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STREET REPAIR
§ 151.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Street Repair
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 1-22-2015)
§ 151.02 PURPOSES AND FINDINGS.
   The Town Council has determined that there needs to be a procedure followed
by all utility companies when damage occurs to streets and sidewalks as a
result of utility maintenance. Repairs to damaged streets and sidewalks need to
occur within five months of the completion of said maintenance.
(Ord. passed 1-22-2015)
§ 151.03 COVERING, REPAIRING AND ELIMINATING OPENINGS AND DAMAGE ON STREETS AND
SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   All utility companies operating within the town, after completion of
utility maintenance upon a street or sidewalk located in the town limits or at
any other location where water and sewer or other utility repairs are made,
shall have six months from the date of the completion of utility maintenance to
repair any damaged street or sidewalk that is damaged as a result of said
repairs.
   (B)   Any damage to the streets or sidewalks, caused by said utility
maintenance, that may cause harm, injury or affect the structural integrity of
said street or sidewalk must be clearly marked unless guarded by designated
persons or otherwise and must be repaired within the said six-month time frame.
(Ord. passed 1-22-2015)
§ 151.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Any utility company who does not comply with these street repair regulations
is subject to a bill from the town. The town will send a bill for the actual
cost of the repair to the utility if the town chooses to make the repair or
hire the repairs to be completed. If the utility to which the bill is sent is
not paid within 30 days, the town will seek all remedies available by law.
(Ord. passed 1-22-2015)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 151.15 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Chapter
8, Article 4, and other applicable provisions of law.
(Ord. passed - -1965)
§ 151.16 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION.
   It is hereby found, determined and declared that it is deemed essential,
convenient and desirable for the health, welfare, safety and morals of the
inhabitants of the town that the streets, avenues, alleys, lanes, sidewalks,
squares or other public places, and the real property next adjacent thereto, be
kept free from obstructions on or over them, and in good order, free and clean
of any waste, refuse, trash or garbage, including any wrecked or non-operative
vehicles or vehicles without a motor.
(Ord. passed - -1965)
§ 151.17 UNLAWFUL USE OF STREETS AND ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon or park for storage any wrecked or non-
operative vehicle, or vehicle without a motor, upon any street, avenue, alley,
lane, sidewalk, square or other public place, and the real property next
adjacent thereto, within the corporate limits of the town for a period of more
than three days.
(Ord. passed - -1965) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 REGULATIONS INAPPLICABLE UNDER SALVAGE YARDS LAW.
   This subchapter shall not apply to licensed and authorized garages and
dealers conforming with the West Virginia Salvage Yards Law, W. Va. Code
Chapter 17, Article 23, and the applicable ordinances of the town.
(Ord. passed - -1965)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
151.15 through
151.18 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $50 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days
or both such fine and imprisonment for each offense, and each day’s violation
thereof shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -1965)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Intent
   
152.002   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.003   Applicability
Interpretation and Definitions
   
152.015   Interpretation
   
152.016   Definitions
Establishment of the Floodplain Area
   
152.030   Identification
   
152.031   Description of Floodplain Area
   
152.032   Change in designation of area
   
152.033   Elevations prevail
   
152.034   Boundary disputes
Utilization of the Floodplain Area
   
152.045   Floodway (F1)
   
152.046   Floodway Fringe (F2) and Approximated Floodplain (F4)
   
152.047   AE area without floodway (F3)
   
152.048   Alteration or relocation of a stream
Criteria for Building and Site Plan Approval
   
152.060   General
   
152.061   Basic format
   
152.062   Elevation and flood proofing information
   
152.063   Site plan criteria
   
152.064   Restrictions to subdivision of land in floodplain areas
Specific Requirements
   
152.075   Design and construction standards
Administration
   
152.090   Development permits and site plan approvals required
   
152.091   Approval of permits and plans
   
152.092   Application procedures
   
152.093   Changes
   
152.094   Placards
   
152.095   Start of construction
   
152.096   Stop work orders, inspection and revocations
   
152.097   Certificate of compliance
   
152.098   Fees
Appeals
   
152.110   Appeals
   
152.111   Appeal review criteria
Government Actions
   
152.125   Municipal annexation
   
152.126   Permits for government entities
Severability and Liability
   
152.140   Severability
   
152.141   Liability
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Promote the general health, welfare and safety of the community;
   (B)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate construction practices in
order to prevent or minimize flood damage in the future;
   (C)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting water
supply, sanitary sewage disposal and natural drainage; and
   (D)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the community, its governmental
units and its residents, by preventing the unwise design and construction of
development in areas subject to flooding.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.002 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter supersedes any ordinance currently in effect in flood-prone
areas. Any ordinance, however, shall remain in full force and effect to the
extent that its provisions are more restrictive.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development
or the new construction, substantial improvement, substantial damage, the
placement or relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within
the town, unless a permit application has been completed and a permit has been
obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   In addition, where land is to be subdivided, utilized for a
manufactured home park or subdivision or otherwise developed, a site plan must
be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administration prior to any
development.
   (B)   Provision of all other codes, ordinances and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this chapter
and the community’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from
flooding.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006) Penalty, see §
152.999
INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
§ 152.015 INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following interpretations shall apply.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   The singular includes the plural.
   (C)   The plural includes the singular.
   (D)   The term “shall” or “will” is always mandatory.
   (E)   The word “building” or “structure” shall be construed as if followed
by the phrase “or part thereof”.
   (F)   The word “ordinance” shall refer to the Floodplain Regulations, this
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. This does not include a gas or liquid storage tank.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood, which has been selected to serve as the basis upon
which the floodplain management provisions of this and other ordinances have
been prepared; for purposes of this chapter, the 100-year flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the entire development,
including the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a structure, is in
compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   CONTRACTOR.
      (1)   A person who in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road,
railroad, structure or excavation associated with a project, development or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of the
undertaking is $1,000 or more.
      (2)   CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who performs management
and counseling services on a construction project for a professional fee.
      (3)   CONTRACTOR does not include:
         (a)   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
         (b)   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
         (c)   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and who
functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board, whose
primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development, management and
maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional capacity and any
employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or her employment,
performs any work which may be considered to be performing contracting work;
         (d)   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W. Va.
Code § 19-16A-7 to engage in the application of pesticides for hire, unless the
operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on property treated
for insect pests; or
         (e)   A corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship whose primary
purpose is to prepare construction plans and specifications used by the
contractors defined in division (2)(c) of this definition and who employs full
time a registered architect licensed to practice in this state or a registered
professional engineer licensed to practice in this state. Employees of such
corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship shall also be exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
(W. Va. Code § 21-9-2)
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOODPLAIN.
      (1)   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and
      (2)   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The town shall appoint a Floodplain Administrator.
The Floodplain Administrator may also be identified as the FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing the
water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights of any given
flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at stream
crossings, and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME DEALER. A business licensed to sell manufactured
homes in the state as set forth in state law.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURING HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the state as set forth in state law.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the State Board of
Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land surveying as
defined in state law.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood resistant materials
as defined in the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) and usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction as herein
defined commenced on or after March 15, 1984 and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   ONE-HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING.
      (1)   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code Chapter
30, Article 13, the adequate performance of which requires engineering
education, training and experience in the application of special knowledge of
the mathematical, physical and engineering sciences to such services or
creative work as consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning and design
of engineering works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching
of advanced engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the
review of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance and operation of engineered
projects.
      (2)   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a registered professional
engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a registered
professional engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code Chapter
30, Article 13 or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who
performs any engineering service or work or any other service designated by the
practitioner which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or
offer to practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code
Chapter 30, Article 13.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of a
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. Base flood waters will not inundate the land
or damage structures to be removed from the special flood hazard area and that
any subsurface waters related to the base flood will not damage existing or
proposed buildings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered or
licensed as a registered professional engineer by the West Virginia State Board
of Registration for Professional Engineers as required under W. Va. Code
Chapter 30, Article 13 et seq.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or, if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impacts of the noncompliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   The definition for START OF CONSTRUCTION is to be used only when
calculating the starting time of the six-month expiration of a permit.
      (2)   The date the permit was issued, including permits for substantial
improvement or substantial damage, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond initial excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Although a permit must be obtained prior to
beginning, permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways, nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For an
alteration, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The West Virginia Division of Homeland Security
and Emergency Management.
   STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code § 7-1-3u, any watercourse, whether natural
or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of their size,
through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of its
volume.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.
      (1)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or exceed
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means cumulative flood-related damages
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each flood event equals or exceeds 25%
of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. See
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures, which have incurred “substantial
damage”, as defined herein regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (3)   (a)   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that
would constitute a substantial improvement as defined above, must comply with
all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure.
         (b)   Documentation that a specific ordinance requirement will cause
removal of the structure from the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Inventory of Historic places must be obtained from the Secretary of the
Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any exemption from this
chapter’s requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
      (4)   For the purpose of this definition IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure.
   TOP OF BANK.
      (1)   The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of a
stream indicate the TOP OF BANK. In the field a professional familiar with
fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF BANK.
      (2)   When a professional is not employed, the top of the bank will be
considered to be the top of the first significant slope landward of the waters
edge when it is followed by at least 50 feet of relatively flat land.
   VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully compliant
with all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA
§ 152.030 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The identified floodplain area shall be those areas of the town which
are subject to the 100-year flood, as shown on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) and described in the flood insurance study (FIS) prepared for the Town
of Oceana by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) dated May 16, 2006
or the most recent revision thereof.
   (B)   The identified floodplain area shall also be those areas of the town
which have been identified as flood hazard areas by the town by use of historic
or other technical data and shown on the town’s “local flood hazards map”.
These areas shall be designated as appropriate with the level of technical data
described below and shall be managed accordingly.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.031 DESCRIPTION OF FLOODPLAIN AREA.
   (A)   The identified floodplain shall consist of the following four specific
areas.
      (1)   The Floodway area (F1) shall be those areas identified as such in
the FIS and as shown on the floodway map or FIRM.
      (2)   The Floodway Fringe area (F2) shall be those areas for which
specific 100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but which lie
beyond the floodway area. The areas are shown on the floodway map or FIRM.
      (3)   The AE Area without Floodway (F3) shall be those areas identified
as an AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-
year flood elevations have been provided but no floodway has been delineated.
      (4)   The Approximated Floodplain Area (F4) shall be those areas
identified as an A Zone on the FIRM or floodway map included in the FIS
prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year flood elevations have been provided.
   (B)   For these areas, elevation and floodway information from other
federal, state or other acceptable source shall be used when available. Where
other acceptable information is not available the Floodplain Administrator may
require the applicant to determine the elevation with hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering or other techniques. Only professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications shall undertake hydrologic and hydraulic analyses.
The responsible professional shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study
shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing
a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computation and the like, used to determine base flood elevations and floodways
shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by
the town.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.032 CHANGE IN DESIGNATION OF AREA.
   (A)   The delineation of the identified floodplain area may be revised by
the town where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or more detailed
studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, a River
Basin Commission or other qualified agency or individual document the necessity
for such changes. However, prior to any such change, approval must be obtained
from the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   (B)   The town may identify and regulate new flood hazard or ponding areas.
These areas may be delineated using locally derived technical information such
as flood of record, historic high water marks and/or topographic data.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.033 ELEVATIONS PREVAIL.
   (A)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to a proposed building site that
is within an identified flood hazard area is at or above the base flood
elevation specified in the flood insurance study, the structure shall not be
required to conform to the flood prevention design and construction standards
or flood-related development codes in §
152.075.
   (B)   Topographic data certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough review by
the Floodplain Administrator. The applicant is advised to apply for a letter of
map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA to have the special flood hazard area
designation removed from the parcel or structure.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.034 BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   Should a dispute concerning any district boundary arise, an initial
determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator and any party
aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the town. The burden of proof shall be
on the appellant/applicant.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
UTILIZATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN AREA
§ 152.045 FLOODWAY (F1).
   (A)   Within any floodway area (F1), no encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, substantial damage or other development
shall be permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
or through equal or less volume replacement that the proposed encroachment will
not result in any increase in the base flood elevation.
   (B)   The Floodway shall be preserved to the greatest extent possible to
carry the discharge of the base flood. Because floodways present increased risk
to human life and property because of their relatively faster and deeper
flowing waters:
      (1)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued; and
      (2)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative the applicant
shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum necessary to
accomplish the project.
   (C)   All permitted uses, activities and development shall be undertaken in
strict compliance with the flood proofing and related provisions contained
herein, and in all other applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.046 FLOODWAY FRINGE (F2) AND APPROXIMATED FLOODPLAIN (F4).
   (A)   In the Floodway Fringe (F2) and Approximated Floodplain (F4), any
development and/or use of land shall be permitted provided that all such uses,
activities and/or development shall be undertaken in strict compliance with the
flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and in all other
applicable codes, ordinances and regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the Approximated
Floodplain area (F4) and which are greater than ten lots or two acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data.
      (1)   This data may be available from an authoritative source, such as
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource
Conservation Service or state and local water resource department.
      (2)   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a flood insurance study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
   (C)   All new or improved structures located in the Approximated Floodplain
(F4) shall be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade
unless base flood elevation data has been obtained from an authoritative source
or developed by a qualified professional using a detailed methodology as
described above.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.047 AE AREA WITHOUT FLOODWAY (F3).
   Within any AE area without floodway, no new construction or development
shall be allowed unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the elevation of the 100-year flood more than
one foot at any point. This requirement can be satisfied by utilization of the
floodway area where determined.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.048 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF A STREAM.
   (A)   Whenever a developer intends to alter (including placement of bridges,
culverts or other stream crossings) or relocate a stream within the floodplain
area, the developer shall notify in writing, by certified mail, the Town of
Oceana, Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office at Building 1
Room EB-80, 1900 Kanawha Blvd., Charleston, West Virginia 25305-0360 and any
adjacent communities of all such intended activities prior to the alteration or
relocation of the stream, and shall submit copies of such notification to the
Federal Insurance Administration c/o FEMA Region III, One Independence Mall,
Sixth Floor, 615 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106-4404. All
applicants proposing to alter or relocate a stream must obtain all required
permits as set forth in the town stream alteration/stream crossing
administrative procedures. The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of
all necessary permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or
state law requires approval prior to issuing the local permit.
   (B)   The developer shall also assure the town in writing that the carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of stream will be maintained.
The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to demonstrate that the
altered or relocated portion of stream will provide equal or greater conveyance
than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are
required, they shall only be undertaken by professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted professional practice. The resultant study
shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing
a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator may require the use of certain “best
practice” techniques in the construction of bridges, culverts or stream
alterations to prevent localizing flooding caused by blockages. These
techniques may include, but are not limited to, wing walls, trash grates or
requiring openings to be of sufficient size to pass debris and carry future
increases in flood heights.
   (D)   The developer is required to provide the community a legal agreement
detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed on altered
or relocated watercourses including culverts and bridges. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to transfer this agreement to the new owner
when the land associated with the watercourse alteration is transferred. A copy
of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (E)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
CRITERIA FOR BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL
§ 152.060 GENERAL.
   Permits are required in order to determine whether all new construction or
substantial improvements are:
   (A)   Located in the identified floodplain or floodway;
   (B)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) or the most
recent revision thereof;
   (D)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
   (E)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.061 BASIC FORMAT.
   The basic format of the permit shall include the following:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant;
   (B)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed construction is to
occur;
   (C)   Name, address and valid state license number of contractor(s), or
affidavit stating that work is being performed by individuals exempt from
contractor licensing as set forth in W. Va. Code Title 28, Series 2, § 3.9(b)
of the West Virginia Code of state regulations or the most recent revision
thereof.
   (D)   Site location including tax map and parcel number; and
   (E)   A standard site plan showing the exact size and location of the
proposed development, adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow as
well as any existing buildings or structures.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.062 ELEVATION AND FLOOD PROOFING INFORMATION.
   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation requirements
contained herein. Flood insurance rates can be lowered significantly by
increasing the elevation of the lowest floor above the freeboard height
required by this chapter. Depending on the type of structure involved, the
following information shall also be included in the application for work within
the floodplain area.
   (A)   For structures to be elevated one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (1)   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its relation
to the lot where it is to be constructed;
      (2)   A determination of elevations of the existing ground, proposed
finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered professional
engineer, surveyor or architect;
      (3)   Plans showing the method of elevating the proposed structure
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare these plans;
      (4)   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
      (5)   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements of
the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, the
applicant shall submit an elevation certificate listing the “as built” height
of the lowest floor. This elevation certificate shall be completed by a
registered professional engineer, surveyor or architect.
      (6)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the community determines that the area below the first floor could be
converted to a nonconforming use (generally applies to areas below base flood
elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement shall state:
         (a)   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access or for allowable storage as
detailed in this chapter; and
         (b)   The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the
existence of this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
transfer the agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature, a
copy of all new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   For structures to be flood proofed to one foot above the base flood
elevation (nonresidential structures only).
      (1)   All applicants are encouraged to exceed the minimum flood proofing
requirements contained herein.
      (2)   Flood insurance rates can be lowered significantly by increasing
the level of flood proofing above the height required by this chapter. In order
to obtain an “elevation credited” flood insurance rate on dry flood proofed
buildings, flood proofing must extend one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   Plans showing details of all flood proofing measures, prepared
by a registered professional engineer or architect, showing the size of the
proposed structure and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         (b)   A determination of elevations of existing ground, proposed
finished ground, lowest floor, and flood proofing limits; certified by a
registered professional engineer, surveyor or architect;
         (c)   A flood proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer or architect who
prepared the plans in division (B)(1) of this section, stating the structure in
question, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities is designed
so that:
            1.   Below the base flood elevation the structure is water-tight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact, and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures, and other factors associated with the base flood.
   (C)   For structures constructed of flood resistant materials - used solely
for parking of vehicles, or storage, (appurtenant structures only).
      (1)   Plans showing details of all flood proofing measures and showing
the size of the proposed structure and its relation to the lot where it is to
be constructed;
      (2)   A completed elevation certificate showing elevation of existing
ground, proposed finished ground, and lowest floor; and
      (3)   A certificate must be prepared by the Floodplain Administrator,
that confirms that the structure in question, together with attendant utilities
is designed so that:
         (a)   Flood resistant materials are used from one foot above the base
flood elevation down and that all utilities are located at least one foot above
the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters; and
            4.   a.   The applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement and
notify prospective buyers of the existence of the agreement.
               b.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer
the non-conversion agreement to any new owner at closing via notarized
signature. A copy of the signed agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.063 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   The owner or developer of any proposed development, including subdivisions
and manufactured home parks, shall submit a preliminary site plan to the
Floodplain Administrator that includes the following information:
   (A)   Name of engineer, surveyor or other qualified person responsible for
providing the information required in this section;
   (B)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to the town’s floodplain areas, proposed lots sites
and fills. In addition, it is required that all subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments which are proposed to take place either fully or
partially within the Approximated Floodplain (F4) and which are greater that
ten lots or two acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood
elevation data. If FEMA has completed a flood insurance study (FIS), that data
must be used to substantiate the base flood. Otherwise, the developer may
submit data provided by an authoritative source, such as U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resources Conservation Service,
state and local water resource departments, or technical data developed using
detailed methodologies comparable to those contained in a flood insurance
study. This data shall be prepared and certified by a registered professional
engineer or others of demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the
technical methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts;
   (C)   Where the subdivision and/or development lies partially or completely
in the floodplain areas, the plan map shall include detailed information giving
the location and elevation of proposed roads, public utilities and building
sites. All such maps shall also show contours at intervals of two or five feet
depending upon the slope of the land and identify accurately the boundaries of
the floodplain areas; and
   (D)   (1)   Where the subdivision lies partially in the floodplain area and
all proposed development will take place a significant vertical distance above
the floodplain area, development of detailed base flood elevation data may not
be necessary.
      (2)   In these cases the site plan for the proposed development must
clearly delineate the area to be developed and the location of the floodplain
areas as depicted on the FEMA map. A registered professional engineer, licensed
professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualifications must certify the
site plan.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.064 RESTRICTIONS TO SUBDIVISION OF LAND IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   Subdivision of land in the floodplain area must result in lots that include
a buildable portion outside of the identified flood hazard area and be served
by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not lower than one
foot below the elevation of the line defining the floodplain limits. All new
structures must be sited on the portion of the subdivided lot that is located
outside of the identified flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.075 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In order to prevent excessive damage to buildings, structures and related
utilities and facilities, the following restrictions apply to all development,
subdivision proposals, manufactured home parks, new construction and to
construction of substantial improvements, substantial damage, to existing
structures occurring in the floodplain area.
   (A)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   All new construction, relocation, substantial improvements and
substantial damage of residential structures must have the lowest floor,
including basement, ductwork and utilities, elevated to one foot above the base
flood elevation.
      (2)   All new construction, relocation, substantial improvements and
substantial damage of nonresidential structures must have the lowest floor,
including basement, ductwork and utilities, elevated to one foot above the base
flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities,
be designed so that below the base flood elevation the structure is flood
proofed in accordance with the requirements detailed in this chapter.
      (3)   For all new construction, relocation, substantial improvements and
substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are
usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (B)   Manufactured home placement. The unique characteristics of
manufactured housing installed in flood hazard areas poses an elevated risk of
bodily harm and substantial damage to property.
      (1)   All manufactured homes to be sited within the identified flood
hazard areas of the town shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid
state manufactured home installer’s license.
      (2)   The installer shall use an installation design engineered to
withstand flood hazards specific to each site. The installation design shall
incorporate the following floodplain management requirements.
         (a)   Elevation so that the lowest floor, ductwork and utilities
including HVAC/heat pump are elevated one foot above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Reinforced piers on a permanent foundation or other foundation
elements of at least equivalent strength engineered for use in a flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Secure anchorage to an adequately anchored permanent foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         (d)   Installation designs incorporating dry stacked block shall not
be used in flood hazard areas; and
         (e)   Ground anchors shall not be considered permanent foundation
systems.
      (3)   A contractor possessing a valid state manufactured home installer’s
license shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the
manufactured home has been installed to the standards set forth above.
   (C)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, appurtenant
structures shall be located out of the floodplain area or elevated or
floodproofed to one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply:
         (a)   Structures shall be no more than 800 square feet in size and
valued at less than $10,000;
         (b)   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side;
         (c)   Structures shall be located, oriented and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
         (d)   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
         (e)   Flood resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin
2-93 (FIA-TB-2) shall be used in the construction of the structure from one
foot above the base flood elevation down;
         (f)   Machinery, electric devices or appliances, and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation; and
         (g)   The venting requirements contained in division (A) of this
section are applicable and shall be strictly adhered to.
      (3)   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant stating
that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or attached garage shall
not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that the structure may be
subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood insurance premiums may be
possible, and that a change in use may require full compliance with this
chapter. The applicant agrees to notify prospective buyers of the existence of
this agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement at closing to the new owner via notarized signature, a copy of all
new agreements shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (D)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any floodplain area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (2)   Meet the provision of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready
for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the
site only by quick disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Fill. The town officially recognizes the beneficial functions the
floodplain serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
Placement of fill in the floodplain area is discouraged and should be
minimized. In the floodway, no fill shall be permitted unless it meets the
requirements of §
152.045. All fill placed in the floodplain area shall meet or exceed the
following standards.
      (1)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect adjacent properties. The town may require the applicant to
show through hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques that proposed fill
would not adversely affect adjacent properties. Hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses shall be undertaken only by professional engineers or others of
demonstrated qualifications, who shall certify that the technical methods used
correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resultant study
shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing
a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses,
computations and the like shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a
thorough technical review by the town.
      (2)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
      (3)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in following division (F). For nonresidential structures, fill
shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use. At grade access,
with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the building line shall be
provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a nonresidential structure.
      (4)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted
      (5)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary stability
and resistance to erosion, scouring or settling.
      (6)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (7)   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities during
the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less must be
protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
      (8)   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities during
the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second must be
protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope protection.
      (9)   The applicant must submit any maps, computations or other material
required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the flood
insurance study and/or flood insurance rate maps, when notified by the
Floodplain Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA
for this purpose.
   (F)   Placement of buildings. All buildings and structures shall be
constructed and placed on the lot so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the
flow of water and shall be designed to have a minimum obstruction effect upon
the flow and height of floodwater.
      (1)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
      (2)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately on
the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
   (G)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All buildings and structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with accepted engineering practices to prevent flotation, collapse and lateral
movement, thus reducing the threat to life and property and decreasing the
possibility of the blockage of bridge openings and other restricted sections of
the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes and storage tanks located at or below
the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist flotation.
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored in compliance with the
requirements of 42 CSR Series 19, Sections 10A and 10B as authorized by W. Va.
Code § 21-9-4. This anchoring shall be adequate to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include but are not limited to
the over-the-top and frame ties, attached to foundation elements, such as the
following:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners
of the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side for manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long;
         (b)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with
five additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes
less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly
anchored. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (H)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   (a)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank or 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses.
         (b)   To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall be maintained in
this area.
         (c)   Where natural vegetation does not exist along the watercourse
and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be given to
planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks and enhance aquatic
resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this division (H).
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator may consider an appeal to the flood
protection setback requirement if the applicant demonstrates that it is
impossible to allow any development without encroachment into the flood
protection setback area.
      (4)   The appeal conditions shall be the minimum necessary and shall be
made only after due consideration is given to varying other siting standards,
such as side, front and back lot line setbacks.
   (I)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
   (J)   Utility and facility requirements. All new or replacement water
systems whether public or private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems. All new or replacement sanitary
disposal systems, whether public or private, shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into floodwaters. All other new or replacement public and/or private
utilities and facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (K)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazard.
   (L)   Backflow preventers. Back flow prevention valves should be used for
all enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
floodplain.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.090 DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND SITE PLAN APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, business or
corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any development or the new
construction, substantial improvement, substantial damage, the placement or
relocation of any structure (including manufactured homes) within the town,
unless a permit application and standard site plan has been completed, and a
permit has been obtained from the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   In addition, where land that is either partially or fully in the
regulatory floodplain is to be subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home
park or subdivision or otherwise developed, a detailed site plan must be
submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any
development.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 APPROVAL OF PERMITS AND PLANS.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed; all permit applications and plans in order to determine whether
proposed building sites are reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of the state and all other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require copies of all necessary
permits from those governmental agencies from which federal or state law
requires approval.
   (D)   The town shall keep on file in perpetuity all information supplied to
the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.092 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Application for a permit and/or site plan approvals shall be made, in
writing, on the forms supplied by the town, and shall include all information
stipulated under §§
152.060 through
152.064.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.093 CHANGES.
   After the issuance of a permit or site plan approval by the Floodplain
Administrator, no changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit
or any of the plans, specification or other documents submitted with the
application without the written consent or approval of the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.094 PLACARDS.
   In addition to the permit, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a
placard, which shall be prominently displayed on the premises during the time
construction is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the permit,
the date of its issuance and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.095 START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Work on the proposed construction shall begin within six months after the
date of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire unless a time
extension is granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Administrator. All work on
the proposed construction must be completed within 12 months of permit
issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time extension is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.096 STOP WORK ORDERS, INSPECTION AND REVOCATIONS.
   (A)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a
stop work order notice for any development found ongoing without having
obtained a permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator to
the penalties described in §
152.999.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a
stop work order notice for any development found noncompliant with the
provisions of this law and/or the conditions of the permit. Disregard of a stop
work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in §
152.999.
   (B)   Inspections and revocations.
      (1)   During the construction period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized official may inspect the premises to determine that the work
is progressing in compliance with the information provided on the permit
application and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
      (2)   If the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does not
comply with the permit application or any applicable laws and ordinances or
that there has been false statement or misrepresentation by any applicant, the
Floodplain Administrator shall issue a stop work order notice revoke the permit
and request a temporary injunction.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.097 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to occupy, or to permit
the use or occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or
enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance has been
issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the building or land
conforms to the requirements of this local law.
   (B)   In areas of flood hazard it shall be unlawful to install a permanent
utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part thereof
hereafter created, erected or rebuilt until a certificate of compliance has
been issued by the local Floodplain Administrator stating that the development
conforms to the requirements of this local law.
   (C)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the Floodplain
Administrator upon satisfactory completion of all development in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections
conducted as prescribed in this chapter or local administrative procedures, and
any finished construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood proofing
certificate or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of permit approval.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.098 FEES.
   A floodplain determination fee of $5, payable to the Town of Oceana shall be
assessed on all proposed development. Application for a permit for proposed
development determined to be occurring in a flood hazard area regulated by this
chapter shall be accompanied by a fee, payable to the Town of Oceana, based
upon the estimated cost of the proposed construction as determined by the
Floodplain Administrator at the following rate: $4 for first $1,000, $2 per
additional $1,000.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
APPEALS
§ 152.110 APPEALS.
   Whenever any person is aggrieved by a decision of the Floodplain
Administrator with respect to the provision of this chapter, it is the right of
that person to appeal to the town which shall be known as the appeals
authority. Such appeal must be filed, in writing, within 30 days after
notification of the decision. Upon receipt of such appeal, the appeals
authority shall set a time and place not less than ten nor more than 60 days
for the purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be given to all parties at which time they may appear and be
heard. The determination by the appeals authority shall be final in all cases.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.111 APPEAL REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   All appeals contesting only the permit fee, the cumulative substantial
damage requirement, the flood protection setback requirement or the freeboard
requirements may be handled at the discretion of the appeals authority.
   (B)   All decisions on appeals to all other provisions of this chapter shall
adhere to the following criteria:
      (1)   Affirmative decisions shall only be issued by the appeals authority
upon: a showing of good and sufficient cause; a determination that failure to
grant the appeal would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a
determination that the granting of an appeal will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense,
create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict
with existing locals laws or ordinance;
      (2)   An affirmative decision shall be issued only upon determination
that it is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. Financial hardship, as a sole criterion, shall not be considered
sufficient justification to grant an appeal;
      (3)   An affirmative decision shall be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure;
      (4)   The appeals authority shall notify the applicant in writing over
the signature of a community official that the issuance of a decision to allow
construction of a structure below the base flood elevation will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance; and such construction below the
base flood elevation increases risk to life and property. Such notifications
shall be maintained with a record of all decisions as required in this division
(B)(4) of this section; and
      (5)   The appeals authority shall:
         (a)   Maintain a record of all decisions including justification for
their issuance; and
         (b)   Report such decisions issued in its biannual report to the
Federal Insurance Administration.
   (C)   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for any construction,
development, use or activity within any floodway area that would cause any
increase in the base flood elevation.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
GOVERNMENT ACTIONS
§ 152.125 MUNICIPAL ANNEXATION.
   (A)   The county floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets the requirements for participation in the national flood insurance
program.
   (B)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any are containing identified flood
hazards.
   (C)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the floodplain boundaries,
base flood elevation and location of the floodway where determined.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.126 PERMITS FOR GOVERNMENT ENTITIES.
   Unless specifically exempted by law, all cities, villages, towns, public
utilities, counties and state agencies are required to comply with this chapter
and obtain all necessary permits.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
SEVERABILITY AND LIABILITY
§ 152.140 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatever, such decision shall
not affect the remaining portions of this chapter which shall remain in full
force and effect and for this purpose the provisions of this chapter are hereby
declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.141 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision or development
plan in an identified flood-prone area, shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind by the town, or by any official or employee
thereof of the practicability or safety of the proposed use, and shall create
no liability upon the town.
   (B)   The town urges all applicants proposing development in or near a flood
hazard area to locate all development as far away from and as high above all
flooding sources as possible.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the requirements or
provisions of this chapter or direction of the Floodplain Administrator or any
other authorized employee of the community shall be unlawful and shall be
referred to the prosecuting attorney who shall expeditiously prosecute all such
violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, pay a fine to the town of not
less than $50 or more than $500 plus cost of prosecution. In default of such
payment such person shall be imprisoned for a period not to exceed ten days.
Each day during which any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute
a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all other actions are
hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper enforcement of
this chapter. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any violation of, or
noncompliance with, this chapter shall not excuse the violation or
noncompliance with the ordinance or permit it to continue; and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or noncompliance within
a reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, altered
or relocated in noncompliance with this chapter may be declared by the town to
be a public nuisance and abatable as such.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2006)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Establishment of districts
   
153.03   Effect of establishment of districts
   
153.04   Regulations for Residential Districts
   
153.05   Regulations for Mobile Home Districts
   
153.06   Regulations for Commercial Districts
   
153.07   Regulations for property maintenance
   
153.08   General provisions and exceptions
   
153.09   Nonconforming uses
   
153.10   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
153.11   Adjustments and appeals
   
153.12   Special use permit
   
153.13   Amendment
   
153.14   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Mobile Home District Boundaries
   
Appendix B:   Property Maintenance Complaint Form
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. A division in a house or building, consisting of one or more
rooms, which is designated for, intended for, or occupied by one or more
persons, for living purposes.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. See JUNKYARD.
   BLOCKS. That property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets and railroad rights-of-way or
un-subdivided acreage.
   BUILDING ACCESSORY. A subordinate structure, use of which is incidental to
that of a main building.
   COUNCIL. The elective legislative body of the Town of Oceana.
   COURT AND AREA-WAYS. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, which is
bounded on two or more sides by a building or buildings, including the open
space in a house court or court apartment providing access to the units
thereof.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single,
non-profit housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel,
club, fraternity or sorority house. A FAMILY shall be deemed to include
necessary servants.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for only the storage of self-
propelled vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises, except those herein defined as a private or
storage garage, used for the storage of care of self-propelled vehicles or
where any such vehicles are equipped for operation or repair, or kept for hire
or sale.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any premises, except those herein defined as a private
garage, used exclusively for the storage of self-propelled vehicles.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the average level of the
highest and lowest point of the portion of the lot covered by the building to
the ceiling of the topmost story.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof. Clinics, hospitals, barber shops, beauty shops and
animal hospitals shall not be deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof containing six or more guest rooms
used, designed or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied by six or more transient guests for compensation, whether
the compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   JUNKYARD. The use of any land for the storage or keeping of junk, including
scrap metals, wood and other substances, or for the dismantling or wrecking of
automobiles, or other vehicles or machines.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, or by a dwelling group and its accessory buildings, together with
such open spaces as are required under the provisions of this chapter, having
not less than the minimum area required by this chapter for a building site in
the district in which such land is situated, and fronting on a street or alley.
   LOT, AREA OF. The total horizontal area included within lot lines, including
one-half of the width, but not to exceed ten feet, of any alley or portion
thereof, abutting any such lot line.
   LOT CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two or more streets, or
bounded on two or more adjacent sides by street lines.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its
rear line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Ordinarily, that line of a lot which is generally opposite
the lot line along the frontage of said lot. In cases in which this definition
is not applicable the Planning and Zoning Commission shall designate the REAR
LOT LINE.
   MAYOR. The elected Mayor of the Town of Oceana or to his or her authorized
representative.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed or intended for human occupancy,
including, but not limited to, the following structures.
      (1)   FACTORY-BUILT HOME. Any dwelling commonly referred to as a mobile
home, house trailer, or recreational or camping or travel trailer.
      (2)   FOLD-DOWN CAMPING TRAILER. Any vehicle consisting of a portable
unit mounted on wheels and constructed with collapsible partial sidewalls which
fold for towing by another vehicle and unfold at the camp site to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use.
      (3)   HOUSE TRAILER. Any trailer designed or intended for human occupancy
and commonly referred to as a mobile home or house trailer, and including
recreational and camping and travel trailers when used on a non-recreational
basis.
      (4)   MOBILE HOME. Any transportable structure wholly or in substantial
part made in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly on a
building site and designed for long-term residential use as a dwelling.
      (5)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any internally propelled vehicle mounted on
wheels and designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping or travel use.
      (6)   TRAILER. Any vehicle mounted on wheels and designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use.
      (7)   TRAVEL TRAILER. Any vehicle mounted on wheels and designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use of
such size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when
towed by a motor vehicle
   MOBILE HOME DISTRICT. One or more parcels of land under single or common
ownership upon which two or more mobile homes are located on a continual, non-
recreational basis together with any structure, equipment, road or facility
intended for use incidental to the occupancy of the mobile homes; provided,
that this definition excludes premises used solely for storage or display of
uninhabited mobile homes offered for sale on the open market.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use that does not conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is situated.
   SIGN. Any thing, consisting of any material, conveying any information to
the public, including, but not limited to, placards, paintings and statuary,
whether indoors or outdoors.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A story with at least two opposite exterior sides meeting a
sloping roof not more than two feet above the floor of such story.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected, the use of which required
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, plots, sites or other divisions of land for any purpose, whether for
immediate or future use. This term includes re-subdivision.
   TOWN. The Town of Oceana, West Virginia.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental and necessary to the principal use of a lot
or building located on the same lot.
   YARD. An open space other than a court on the same lot with a building,
which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except
as otherwise provided in §
153.09. In measuring a yard, as hereinafter provided, the line of a building
shall be deemed to mean a line parallel to the nearest lot line drawn through
the point of a building, or the point of a dwelling group, nearest to such lot
line, exclusive of the respective architectural features enumerated in §
153.09 as not to be considered in measuring yard dimensions or as being
permitted to extend into any front, side or rear yard, respectively; and the
measurement shall be taken from the line of the building to the nearest lot
line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the lot to the rear
line of the lot.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter the town is divided into the following
use districts: Residential; Mobile Home; and Commercial.
   (B)   Any land which may be added to the town in the future shall be placed
in the Residential District until special action of the Town Council as
hereinafter provided shall definitely assign such land to another use district.
   (C)   To more clearly set forth the boundaries of the original use districts
the same are hereby described as follows.
      (1)   Commercial. All property in the Town of Oceana abutting on West
Virginia Route 10 and extending back from the right-of-way of said Route 10 for
a distance of 100 feet. Property on West Virginia Routes 85 and 971, extending
back from the right-of-way of said West Virginia Routes 85 and 971 for a
distance of 100 feet may be designated as Commercial or Residential by the
property owner.
      (2)   Mobile home. All property bounded as described within Appendix A
“Mobile Home District Boundaries” attached hereto and incorporated herein.
      (3)   Residential. All other property not included in the Commercial
District and Mobile Home District as stated above shall be considered as
residential property.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-14-2018)
§ 153.03 EFFECT OF ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided:
   (A)   No building shall be erected and no existing building shall be moved,
altered, added to-or enlarged, nor shall any land, building or premises be
used, designed or intended to be used for any purpose or in any matter other
than as included above the uses hereinafter listed as permitted in the district
in which such building, land or premises is located;
   (B)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to
exceed in height the limit hereinafter designated for the district in which
such building, land or premises is located;
   (C)   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be
altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open space surrounding any building
be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity to the yard,
building site area and building location regulations hereinafter designated for
the district in which such building or open space is located; and
   (D)   (1)   Any yard or other open space provided by any building for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be considered as
providing a yard or open space for any building and any yard or open space on
one lot shall be considered as providing a yard or open space for a building or
any other lot insofar and only insofar as that all of said lots provided the
yard or open space or any building or part of any building erected or placed
upon any said lot or any part of any building erected or placed upon any said
lot is owned by one and the same party to the effect that in compliance with
yard requirements a person may own two or more lots together and to place a
building across the dividing lines between said lots and in such cases of the
said two or more lots owned by one and the same party and individual lot if
more than one adjoining, adjacent and contiguous lots are owned by one and the
same party and used by said party for the purpose of one resident or one
business establishment.
      (2)   In any other event no yard or other open space provided by any
building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall
be considered if providing a yard or open space for any other building and no
yard or other open space on one lot shall be considered as providing a yard or
open space providing a building or any other lot.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.04 REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Use regulations. In the Residential District, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, no building or land shall be used and no building
shall hereinafter be erected or structurally altered except for one or more of
the following cases:
      (1)   One- or two-family dwellings and their accessory buildings,
apartments;
      (2)   Farming or truck gardening; plant nurseries or greenhouses;
      (3)   Parks and playgrounds; golf courses or golf clubs;
      (4)   Churches, libraries, museums, schools, memorial buildings,
including name plates and bulletin boards placed in back of the prescribed set
back lines;
      (5)   Boarding and lodging houses;
      (6)   Home occupations;
      (7)   The following uses, but only upon securing a special use permit as
provided in §
153.12:
         (a)   Hospitals, clinics and other buildings used for the treatment of
human ailment;
         (b)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
         (c)   Radio or television broadcasting stations; and
         (d)   Clubs, lodges, fraternities and sorority houses.
      (8)   Any other use requires approval by a majority vote of the Town
Council upon application for a special use permit; and
      (9)   Any previously established business that exists in an area which is
zoned residential can stay located in that area which is zoned residential;
however, no new business can exist from this day forward in an area which zoned
is residential.
   (B)   Mobile homes. Nothing defined herein as a mobile home shall be
permitted in the Residential District, except as a nonconforming use pursuant
to §
153.09 and except under a special use permit pursuant to §
153.12. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, no mobile home shall be
used for residential purposes in the Commercial District.
   (C)   Height regulations. In the Residential District no building shall
hereafter be erected or structurally altered to exceed 40 feet or three stories
in height.
   (D)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Building site regulations. In the Residential District every
building designed for the housing of one or two families together with its
accessory buildings, shall be located on a building site in one ownership
having an area of at least 3,000 square feet. Every building designed for more
than two families shall be located on a building site in one ownership having
not less than 1,800 square feet per family.
      (2)   Front yard requirements. No portion of a house shall be built
closer than 20 feet to the front line on the lot, exclusive of porches, eaves
and the like.
      (3)   Side yard requirements.
         (a)   Each lot in a Residential District shall have its side yards one
on each side of the building. For every dwelling hereinafter erected or
structurally altered which does not exceed two stories, each side yard shall
have a width of not less than five feet; and in the event that one person shall
own two or more lots adjacent and adjoining to each other and shall use both
lots for a single dwelling then the side yard requirements herein imposed shall
apply as to the exterior boundary line of said adjacent and adjoined
combination of lots and shall not apply to each lot individually.
         (b)   On corner lots which abut on two or more streets the side yard
on the street side of such corner lots and which side also abuts on said side
street, shall have a width of 20 feet.
         (c)   In case a dwelling is so located on a lot that the front or rear
thereof faces any side lot line, such dwelling shall not be less than 20 feet
from said line.
      (4)   Rear yard requirements. No portion of any house shall be built
closer than ten feet to the back line of the lot with the exception of porches,
eaves and the like.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 2-8-2007)
§ 153.05 REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally. All regulations set forth in §
153.04 are incorporated herein and apply to all Mobile Home Districts.
   (B)   Placement regulations.
      (1)   Indemnity bond.
         (a)   Ten days before moving any mobile home within the town for the
purpose of placement within the town, the owner of the mobile home shall post
an indemnity bond in the amount of $2,000 with the Town Recorder for the
purpose of indemnifying the town against damage to public property resulting
from movement of the mobile home.
         (b)   The indemnity bond shall be released by the Town Recorder within
30 days after movement of the mobile home is completed.
         (c)   If the town claims damage against the indemnity bond, any money
obtained from the bond shall be applied against repair of the property damage.
         (d)   If the amount of the bond is less than the cost of repairing any
damage to public property resulting from movement of the mobile home, the town
is not thereby precluded from instituting legal action for damages.
      (2)   Permit for placement.
         (a)   Thirty days before placement of any mobile home, the owner of
the mobile home shall submit to the Town Recorder an application for a
placement permit, which application shall provide the following information:
            1.   Metes and bounds description, street address or other
description of the property upon which the mobile home is to be placed;
            2.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the mobile
home;
            3.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
property upon which the mobile home is to be placed;
            4.   Dimensions, model number, style or other description of the
mobile home, which shall include a photograph;
            5.   Name, address and telephone number of the person or entity
moving the mobile home;
            6.   Name, address and telephone number of the person or entity
underwriting the bond for movement of the mobile home; and
            7.   Other information required by the Town Council.
         (b)   The application for placement shall include a non-refundable
placement fee of $50 paid by the owner of the mobile home;
         (c)   The Town Council shall require as prerequisite to the approval
of an application for placement permit an on-site inspection of the mobile home
or of the property upon which the mobile home is to be placed or both;
         (d)   The Building Commissioner shall within ten days of application
approve or reject the application for placement of mobile home, giving written
reasons for rejection and providing procedure for appeal, or directing the Town
Recorder to issue a permit;
         (e)   Appeal to Town Council shall be heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of Town Council or may at the discretion of the Mayor be
heard at a special meeting prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting. Upon
appeal, the Town Council may override the decision of the Building Commissioner
by a majority vote;
         (f)   The permit shall be at least eight and one-half by11 inches in
size and shall set forth the information required in the application, and may
consist of the application marked “Permit Approved”;
         (g)   Fifteen days before placement of any mobile home, the permit
shall be posted upon the property upon which the mobile home is to be placed;
         (h)   Through the fifth business day before the day of placement of
the mobile home, and not including the day of placement, any citizen of the
town may submit a written protest and request for public hearing;
         (i)   Upon written request for public hearing, the Town Council shall
convene for the purpose of conducting the public hearing at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of Town Council, or may at the discretion of the Mayor
convene for a special meeting prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting;
both proponents and opponents of the placement of the mobile home shall be
afforded equal opportunity to be heard; the Town Council shall vote upon and
shall issue its ruling by majority vote immediately upon completion of the
public hearing.
      (3)   Structural requirements. Any mobile home hereafter placed within
the town shall have the following structural elements:
         (a)   Masonry foundation;
         (b)   Steps to each entryway; and
         (c)   Underpinning or skirting of wood, plywood, masonite, fiberboard,
wood or polyvinyl chloride latticework, or other material specifically approved
by Town Council, excluding corrugated plastic, cloth, sheet vinyl or paper,
which shall enclose the entire perimeter of the mobile home.
      (4)   Specifications.
         (a)   The minimum size of an individual mobile home site or lot within
a Mobile Home District created after the enactment of this chapter shall be
3,000 square feet;
         (b)   The minimum site for a Mobile Home District created after the
enactment of this chapter shall be two acres;
         (c)   The setbacks and lot or site placement for mobile homes shall be
the same as for residential homes, but front and side yard requirements shall
be applied in the aggregate for the entire Mobile Home District and not for
each individual mobile home therein; and
         (d)   In addition to signs permitted for the Residential District,
each Mobile Home District shall be permitted one sign not to exceed eight
square feet identifying the Mobile Home District and otherwise complying with
regulations for signs within this chapter.
      (5)   Permit for Mobile Home District. The creation of any Mobile Home
District not existing at the time of adoption of this section requires
application and creation by new ordinance. The application must include a
development plan including, but not limited to, the following information:
         (a)   A map showing to scale the precise location of the proposed
Mobile Home District within the town;
         (b)   A metes and bounds description of the property;
         (c)   A construction time schedule;
         (d)   Existing and proposed contours, paving, roadways, walkways,
parking, open spaces, common areas, fences, plantings, lighting and signs;
         (e)   Proposed site location of individual mobile homes; and
         (f)   Provision of essential services including, but not limited to,
sewer, water, gas, electricity, telephone, and television cable conduits and
meters.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.06 REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Use regulations. In the Commercial District, unless otherwise provided
in this chapter, no building or land shall be used, and no building shall
hereinafter be erected or structurally altered except for one or more of the
following uses:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the Residential Districts;
      (2)   Retail stores and shops;
      (3)   Automobile stations for the sale of gasoline, oil and accessories,
public garages;
      (4)   Theaters, financial institutions, telephones and telegraph offices,
messenger offices, professional offices;
      (5)   Carpentry, furniture repairing or upholstering shops, book binding
shops, dress making shops, shoe repairing and dyeing shops, newspaper or job
printing establishment, electrical, metal working, tinsmithing, plumbing,
water, gas or steam fitting shops, paint or paper-hanging shops;
      (6)   Undertaking establishments, but only upon securing of special use
permit as provided in §
153.12;
      (7)   Other business uses which in the opinion of the Planning and Zoning
Commission or the Town Council, are of the same general character as the uses
enumerated in this division (A) and will not be obnoxious or detrimental to the
district in which located; and
      (8)   All industrial uses which, in the opinion of the Planning and
Zoning Commission or the Town Council will not be obnoxious or detrimental to
the district in which located, and then only upon the securing of a special use
permit as provided in §
153.12.
   (B)   Mobile home regulations.
      (1)   A structure defined as a mobile home may be used for commercial
purposes within the Commercial District if all regulations set forth within
this section are met.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, which provides for
residential uses in the Commercial District, and notwithstanding any other
provision of this chapter, no mobile home shall be used for residential
purposes in the Commercial District.
   (C)   Building and material regulations.
      (1)   Floor levels. The ground floor level of any business building or
other business structures shall be in conformity with the present sidewalk
levels and elevations in said town, or as hereinafter established and in
conformity with the establishment grade of all streets not having sidewalks and
said floor level shall not extend above said sidewalk level or road grade level
more than eight inches nor shall said floor level be below said sidewalk or
road grade level more than six inches.
      (2)   Walls parallel to street line. The wall of any business building or
structure on the street side thereof shall be parallel to the sidewalk in front
of said lot or parallel to the right of any line of any street in front
thereof, if said street has no sidewalk.
      (3)   Walls. The thickness of masonry bearing walls shall not be less
than eight inches for the first story in height; provided, that they do not
exceed two stories in height.
         (a)   Should they exceed two stories in height, they shall be
increased four inches for each successive two stories. Non-bearing walls may be
eight inches thick for the first 50 feet.
         (b)   Hollow walls of brick or walls of hollow burned clay, tile or
concrete blocks or cinder blocks shall not be used as bearing walls for
structures exceeding three stories in height.
         (c)   The thickness of walls of reinforced concrete bearing walls
shall not be less than three fourths of the thickness required for masonry
bearing walls.
         (d)   Walls of business buildings and storage buildings other than
fire walls or party walls, not more than one story in height, must be eight
inches thick.
         (e)   The above thickness of walls may be ordered increased if in the
opinion of the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Town Council, based upon
proposed use of the building or upon the terrain factor, additional thickness
is deemed necessary for the safety of lives and property.
      (4)   Fireproof construction. All public garages, public theaters, hotels
and all other buildings constructed or erected and to be used as a meeting
place for public assembly shall be of fireproof construction.
      (5)   Protection of ends of wooden beams.
         (a)   Wooden beams, joints or girders resting on opposite sides of a
masonry wall, shall be separated from one another by at least six inches of
solid masonry.
         (b)   Joists shall be cut in such manner that should they burn to the
center, the ends will drop free of the walls unless said joists shall be
supported by steel wall hangers.
      (6)   Quality of materials. All building materials shall be of good
quality and shall conform to specifications which the building officials
prescribe; more generally accepted standard specification for qualities of
materials are those of the American Society for Testing Materials.
      (7)   Electrical installation. All electrical living apparatus or
appliances, for furnishing light, heat or power, shall be in strict conformity
with the statutes of the state and the rules and regulations issued by the
Underwriters Laboratory, and in conformity with approved methods of
construction for safety to life and property.
      (8)   Code standards. Rules, regulations and recommendations as contained
in the National Building Code as recommended by the National Board of Fire
Underwriters shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the approved manner for
the construction and erection of all buildings in this use district.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-14-2018)
§ 153.07 REGULATIONS FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This section applies to all property within the town regardless of
its classification for use or taxation.
      (2)   No object, material or substance required to be screened or abated
pursuant to this section is exempt from the application and enforcement of this
section by virtue of §
153.09, nor shall any such object, material or substance be deemed to be
“grandfathered” or permitted to continue for any reason after the adoption and
implementation of this section.
   (B)   Screening.
      (1)   The following items within the town shall be completely screened
from view from any perspective:
         (a)   Any receptacle used for the disposal, storage or hauling of
trash; provided, that receptacles may be exposed to view within the 24 hours
encompassing the time of regularly scheduled trash pick-up;
         (b)   Any vehicle incapable of movement under its own power, except in
an emergency of less than 24 hours’ duration;
         (c)   Any vehicle under repair, whether mechanical, auto body or
interior repair, or in a state of being incomplete as to parts or surface
finish; and
         (d)   Any vehicle not having valid title and registration pursuant to
state law.
      (2)   Screening shall be as follows:
         (a)   Six inches in height higher than the top plane of the item to be
screened, as measured from the earth or pavement to the top edge of the screen
unit;
         (b)   Enclosing the entire perimeter of the storage area containing
the item to be screened;
         (c)   Constructed of substantial opaque rigid material including, but
not limited to, masonry, wood, masonite, fiberboard, rigid polyvinyl chloride
or other material specifically approved by Town Council, excluding corrugated
plastic, cloth, sheet vinyl or paper;
         (d)   Maintained as to surface and condition by painting, cleaning and
repair; and
         (e)   Placed upon a foundation or otherwise anchored to the earth or
pavement.
      (3)   Screening modification.
         (a)   Screening of dumpsters may be modified to accommodate the
dumpster pick-up mechanism.
         (b)   Dumpster screening may be subject to variance requirements at
the discretion of Town Council.
   (C)   Unlicensed vehicles prohibited. No vehicle requiring a state license
and bearing no such applicable license shall be parked or stored on any street
within the town limits except in an emergency of less than 24 hours’ duration.
   (D)   Materials subject to abatement. The growth, storage or accumulation of
materials including, but not limited to, plant growth or organic material,
trash, building or manufacturing materials or by-products, furniture,
appliances, tools, equipment, vehicles, toys, decorations or any other object
or substance not a building or appurtenance thereto, situated upon any property
within the town, may be deemed a public nuisance or may be deemed detrimental
to the health, safety or welfare of the residents of the town by majority vote
of the Town Council.
   (E)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   Any property within the town is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Town Council with respect to property maintenance.
      (2)   The Town Council is empowered to enter upon any land within the
town for purposes of inspection and maintenance in compliance with procedure
set forth herein.
   (F)   Procedure.
      (1)   Any resident or official of the town may file a complaint alleging
violation of this section, which complaint shall be evidenced by completion of
a written complaint form provided by the Town Recorder, which form shall
include at least the name and address of the person filing the complaint and a
short and plain statement of the nature of the violation.
      (2)   The complaint form attached hereto as Appendix B may be revised by
majority vote of the Town Council as a technical revision, notwithstanding any
procedural requirements for the ordinance revision.
      (3)   Within ten days of the filing of a complaint, Town Council shall
refer any potential violation of this section to the Street Commissioner for
inspection.
      (4)   Upon referral of the complaint, the Street Commissioner shall
submit a report to the Town Council, and Town Council shall convene to receive
the report, at its next regularly scheduled meeting, or sooner as directed by
Town Council, and no more than 30 days after referral.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the report of the Street Commissioner, the Town
Council may by majority vote issue to the property owner a cease and desist
order and notice of hearing no more than ten days after receipt of the Street
Commissioner’s report and at least ten days before the hearing date.
      (6)   The cease and desist order shall state with specificity:
         (a)   Location of property;
         (b)   Name of property owner;
         (c)   Nature of alleged violation;
         (d)   Specific abatement, corrective maintenance or other action
required;
         (e)   Procedure for response and opportunity to be heard at least ten
days after service;
         (f)   Consequences of failure to respond or appear, including, but not
limited to, waiver of right, entry upon land, abatement at property owner’s
expense, potential lien against the property or money judgment for costs;
         (g)   Date on which Town Council will conduct a hearing, at least ten
days after service of the cease and desist order;
         (h)   Statement that the cease and desist order serves as notice of
hearing; and
         (i)   Statement advising property owner of right to legal
representation.
      (7)   On the date set forth within the cease and desist order, a hearing
shall be conducted by a quorum of the Town Council, which shall issue its
ruling in the form of an order within ten days of the hearing.
      (8)   The ruling order shall include one or more findings of fact and
conclusions of law with respect to the condition of the property and its status
as a public nuisance or as detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
residents of the town, and with respect to the abatement or maintenance
required, and shall state with specificity any remedy imposed, including, but
not limited to, requiring the property owner to abate the nuisance or implement
such maintenance as specified in the order, and requiring Town Council to
undertake the required abatement or property maintenance at the expense of the
property owner if the property owner fails to complete such maintenance within
a stated reasonable time frame of at least 30 days in the case of any nuisance
or detriment not constituting an emergency condition; provided, that failure of
the property owner to appear or respond at the hearing constitutes waiver and
enables the Town Council to undertake abatement or maintenance at the property
owner’s expense immediately.
      (9)   If the Town Council finds the property’s condition to be a nuisance
or detriment constituting an emergency condition, which emergency condition
must be supported by findings of fact set forth within the ruling order, the
property owner may be required to undertake abatement or maintenance
immediately, and, if the property owner fails to do so, Town Council may
undertake maintenance or abatement within five days.
      (10)   The cease and desist order and the ruling order shall be served
upon the property owner pursuant to the West Virginia Rules of Civil Procedure,
Rule 4, and any applicable section of state law.
      (11)   Upon issuance of its order, the Town Council may proceed to
effectuate the remedy stated therein pursuant to its terms.
      (12)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or interfere
with the police power of the town or to prevent the town from taking
appropriate measures to abate emergency conditions requiring immediate action
on any land within the town.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Complaint For, see
Ch. 153, App. B
§ 153.08 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The regulations specified in this chapter shall be subject to the following
interpretation and exceptions.
   (A)   Uses.
      (1)   The following accessory uses, in addition to those hereinbefore
specified shall be permitted in any Residential District; provided, that such
accessory uses do not alter the character of the premises in respect to their
use for the purpose permitted in such respective districts:
         (a)   The renting of rooms and/or the providing of table board in a
dwelling as an incidental use to that of its occupancy as a dwelling of the
character permitted in the respective district, but not to the extent of
constituting a hotel as defined in this chapter, unless permitted in the
district; and
         (b)   The operation of necessary facilities and equipment in
connection with schools, colleges, universities, hospitals and other
institutions permitted in the respective district.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no livestock
is permitted on any lot in any Residential or Mobile Home District.
      (3)   Signs are permitted within the boundaries of the town under the
following conditions.
         (a)   The area of signs permitted within this chapter shall be
measured as follows:
            1.   Area includes the entire area enclosing the extreme limits of
any representational image, including any frame, color or background
distinguishing it from the surface upon which it is placed;
            2.   Area is calculated by multiplying the longest vertical length
by the longest horizontal length of the entire image including its background;
            3.   Supports upon which a sign is displayed are not included in
the measurement of its area; and
            4.   Height is measured from the surface of the earth or pavement
underlying the sign to the top edge of the thing to be measured.
         (b)   Signs upon residential property shall not exceed one square foot
in area; provided, that a sign displayed upon residential property advertising
for sale the property upon which it is displayed, or a political sign displayed
within six months prior to a local, state or national election, shall not
exceed four square feet in area, and its uprights shall not exceed four feet in
height.
         (c)   Signs upon commercial property shall not exceed eight square
feet in area.
         (d)   No sign may extend into the vertical plane occupied by any paved
sidewalk or street.
         (e)   A sign advertising for sale of the property upon which it is
displayed, or a political sign displayed within six months prior or a local,
state or national election, may be affixed to a pole or upright structure not
exceeding four feet in height.
         (f)   Any commercial sign not flush against the surface of a building,
or otherwise projecting into unoccupied air space, must provide a clearance of
eight feet between the earth or pavement over which it is placed and the bottom
edge or surface of the sign.
         (g)   A sign placed upon Residential, Commercial, Mobile Home District
or public property may provide direction and location information, including,
but not limited to, directions to properties not situated adjacent to the
street upon which such sign is located, and such directional sign requires
application in advance for a permit subject to the majority approval of the
Town Council.
         (h)   A sign permit shall be obtained for the erection of any
commercial sign.
         (i)   Any sign in variance from the restrictions set forth herein
requires application in advance for a permit subject to the majority approval
of the Town Council.
      (4)   Building permits.
         (a)   Prior to site preparation or excavation, a building permit shall
be issued by the building inspector or other designated agent of Town Council
for any construction, alteration, wrecking or moving of any building structure
or appurtenance, within any Commercial, Residential or Mobile Home District.
         (b)   No building permit is necessary for ordinary cultivation or
landscaping.
         (c)   Within a Residential or Mobile Home District, no building permit
is necessary for construction, alteration, wrecking or moving of any building,
structure or appurtenance having construction value of less than $500.
         (d)   All cultivation, landscaping, excavation or construction of any
kind performed without a permit shall, nevertheless, comply with all applicable
construction requirements set forth in this chapter.
         (e)   The fee for a building permit, payable upon application, is $4
for the first $1,000 of construction value and $2 for each additional $1,000 of
construction value or portion thereof.
         (f)   Application for a building permit shall be submitted to the
building inspector or other designated agent of Town Council, on blank forms
furnished by the town.
         (g)   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a
plan drawn to scale showing the dimensions of the subject building, structure
and appurtenance, including any applicable plot plan, also to scale. Each
application shall contain such other information Town Council deems necessary
for proper enforcement of the chapter.
         (h)   The building inspector or other designated agent of Town Council
shall determine whether the construction application and plane comply with the
ordinance and shall issue or reject the permit application accordingly.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the
construction or maintenance of any stand or shelter for the sale of
agricultural products raised on the premises.
      (6)   No filling station, public garage or gasoline distributing station
shall be located within 300 feet of a school, church, hospital or other public
meeting place having a seating capacity of more than 50 persons.
   (B)   Yards.
      (1)   Generally. For the purpose of computing front yard dimensions
measurements shall be taken from the nearest point of the front wall of the
building to the street line, except that the certain architectural features
hereinafter enumerated shall not be considered in making such measurements:
         (a)   Cornices, canopies, eaves or any other architectural features
may extend beyond said front wall of distance not exceeding two feet, six
inches;
         (b)   Fire escapes may extend beyond said front wall a distance not
exceeding four feet, six inches;
         (c)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend beyond said front
wall to a distance not exceeding six feet; provided, that such landing place or
porch shall have its floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. A
railing no higher than three feet may be placed around such place; and
         (d)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into
any side or rear yard the same distance that they are permitted to extend
beyond any front wall, except that no porch, terrace, or outside stairway shall
project more than three feet into any side yard and then, in the case of an
outside stairway, only if the same is unroofed and unenclosed above and below
the steps thereof.
      (2)   Accessory buildings. In case an accessory building is attached to
the main building, it shall be made structurally a part thereof and shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the
main building. An accessory building, unless attached to and made a part of the
main building as provided above for, shall not be closer than five feet to the
main building, except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (3)   Side yard requirements. In the Commercial District, no side yard
shall be required except as follows.
         (a)   Buildings erected or used for dwelling purposes exclusively
shall comply with the side yard regulations of the Residential District.
         (b)   Buildings erected or used for both dwelling and business
purposes shall have two side yards not less than five feet wide, one on each
side of the building, if any story of the building used in any part for
dwelling purposes is more than two rooms in depth; provided, that no such side
yard shall be necessary on the street side of a corner lot.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-14-2018)
§ 153.09 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the lawful use of any
land or building existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be
continued although such use does not conform to the regulations specified by
this chapter for the district in which such land or building is located;
provided, that no such nonconforming use of land shall be enlarged or increased
nor shall any such nonconforming use be extended to occupy a greater area of
land than that occupied by such use at the time of the adoption of this
chapter; nor shall any such nonconforming use be moved to any other part of the
parcel of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of the adoption of
this chapter. A nonconforming use of a building existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter may be extended throughout the building; provided,
that no structural alterations except those required by ordinance or law are
made therein. If such nonconforming use consists of a substantial building and
ceases for a continuous period of two years, any subsequent use of said
building shall be in conformity to the regulations specified by this chapter
for the district in which the building is located; however, if any
nonconforming use of lands on which there are no substantial buildings ceases
for any length of time, any subsequent use of such land shall be in conformity
to regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is
located. A mobile home is not a substantial building for purposes of this
section. Non-use of a nonconforming mobile home for a period of one year shall
terminate its status as a grandfathered nonconforming use and shall trigger a
requirement for conformity to this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   If at any time any building in existence or maintained at the
time of the adoption of this chapter which does not conform to the regulations
of the district in which it is located shall be destroyed by fire, earthquake,
wind, water or explosion, or any other cause, to the extent of more than 50% of
its value, then without further action by the Town Council the said building
and the land on which such building was located or maintained shall from the
date of said destruction be subject to the regulations specified by this
chapter for the district in which such land and building are located.
      (2)   Any building which is damaged to an extent of less than 50% of its
value may be restored to its former extent. Estimate of the extent of damage or
destruction shall be made by the Town Council or its appointed agents.
   (C)   Any use for which a use permit is required or for which a use permit
may be granted under the terms of this chapter, which use is existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter, in any district in which such use is
specifically permitted subject to the security of a use permit, shall without
further action be deemed to be a conforming use in such district.
   (D)   Regardless of any other provisions of this chapter, no junkyard
existing as a nonconforming use in a Residential District at the time of the
adoption of this chapter shall continue as herein provided for nonconforming
use for more than one year from the adoption of this chapter. No junkyard which
after the adoption of this chapter exists as a nonconforming use in any
Commercial or Industrial District shall continue as herein provided for
nonconforming uses unless such junkyard shall within one year after it has
become a nonconforming use be completely enclosed within a building or within a
continuous solid fence not less than eight feet in height and in case of such
height as to screen completely all the operations of such junkyard. The plans
of such building or fence shall first have been approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission. All other provisions of this section shall apply to any
nonconforming junkyard.
   (E)   Regardless of any other provisions of this chapter no outdoor
advertising structure existing as a nonconforming use at the time of the
adoption of this chapter shall continue as herein provided for nonconforming
uses for more than six months after the adoption of this chapter.
   (F)   Any mobile home existing within the town at the time of adoption of
this chapter, regardless of whether it is situated within a designated Mobile
Home District, shall, for a period of six months following adoption of this
chapter, be deemed a conforming use, and thereafter shall have installed
underpinning or skirting of wood, plywood, masonite, fiberboard, wood or
polyvinyl chloride latticework, or other material specifically approved by Town
Council, excluding corrugated plastic, cloth, sheet vinyl or paper, which shall
enclose the entire perimeter of the mobile home.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.10 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   The powers exercised by the town under this chapter are granted by
W. Va. Code §§ 8-5-1 et seq. The municipal Planning and Zoning Commission
herein created is also vested in the powers of zoning herein expressly granted
to said Commission by virtue of the cited sections of the West Virginia Code.
      (2)   The Commission shall consist of not less than five members all of
whom shall be taxpayers and residents of the said town who shall be nominated
by the Mayor and confirmed by the legislative body of said town.
         (a)   Members of the Commission first appointed hereunder shall be
appointed to serve respectively for terms of one year, two years and three
years, divided equally or as nearly equal as possible between these terms;
thereafter members shall be appointed for terms of three years each and
vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the un-expired term only.
         (b)   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation and
shall hold no other town office.
      (3)   In addition to the not less than five appointed members there shall
also be two ex officio members, who shall be the Mayor and one member of the
Town Council to be selected by its own members. The terms of the ex officio
members shall correspond to their official tenures.
      (4)   (a)   Members other than the members selected by the Town Council
may be removed from office by the Mayor, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office. Removal shall be made only after a public hearing for
charges against the members.
         (b)   The Town Council may for like cause the in like manner remove
the member appointed by it. The Mayor or Town Council, as the case may be,
shall file a written statement of reasons for such removal with the Commission
and with the Recorder of said town prior to the date set for the public hearing
on the charges.
      (5)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term
shall be filled for the un-expired term in the same manner as in the case of
the original appointment.
   (B)   Organization and rules.
      (1)   (a)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from amongst the
appointed members and fill such other of its offices as it may determine.
         (b)   The term of the Chairperson shall be for one year with
eligibility for re-election.
      (2)   The Commission shall adopt rules for transaction of business and
shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which record shall be a public record.
   (C)   Staff and finances.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions and limitations set forth herein the
Commission may appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for its work,
whose appointment, promotion, demotion or removal shall be subject to the same
provisions of law as govern corresponding civil members of the town; and may
also contract with town planners, engineers, architects and other consultants
for such service as it may require.
      (2)   The Commission may receive gifts of money for the purposes of this
chapter which moneys shall be paid into the regular treasury and shall
thereafter be considered moneys appropriated for the use of the Commission as
hereinafter set forth. The Commission shall, during each fiscal year, and not
later than July 31 submit to the Town Council a request for an appropriation of
money to be expended by the Commission in addition to any gifts received by it;
which request shall show specifically the maximum amount requested and the
purposes for which such moneys are to be expended, as well as the specified
amount to be spent for each purpose. Such request shall be in writing and
signed by the Chairperson of the Commission. In addition to the requests
submitted during the month of July of each fiscal year, the Commission may
during the remainder of the fiscal year make additional requests for an
appropriation in the same manner and form as herein provided. Upon the receipt
of any such request the Town Council may consider and act upon the same at any
regular meeting of the Town Council granting such request in whole or in part
or wholly refusing such request as the Town Council may deem proper.
      (3)   The Commission shall not expend any money and shall not enter into
any contract directly or indirectly involving any expenditure of money unless
or until the funds for such expenditure have been specifically appropriated by
the Town Council in the manner hereinbefore set forth; and any expenditure of
such funds, or contract directly or indirectly involving the expenditure of
such funds, without such specific appropriation therefore, shall be null and
void; and any moneys paid out without the full authorization under the terms of
this chapter shall be recoverable for an on behalf of the town either against
the person or persons receiving the same or against the members of the
Commission making such unlawful expenditures.
   (D)   Powers and duties with respect to planning.
      (1)   It shall be the function and duty of the Commission to make and
adopt a master plan under and by virtue of the provisions of the W. Va. Code §§
8-5-1 et seq., as is necessary to protect the community against inadequate
streets, highways, sewers and inadequately planned territory. Such plans shall
show recommendations for new streets, bridges, parks, parkways, playgrounds or
any other public areas or public improvements. Such plans with the accompanying
maps, charts and descriptive matter shall show the Commission’s recommendations
for the development of said territory including among other things the general
location, character and the extent of all streets, bridges, squares,
playgrounds, parks, terminals and other public buildings and other public
property and the general location and extent of public utilities and terminals
whether publicly or privately operated, for water, light, sanitation,
transportation, communication, power and other purposes; also the removal,
reuse or extension of any of the foregoing streets, alleyways, grounds, open
spaces, property, utilities or terminals. As the work of the making of the
master plan progresses, the Commission may from time to time recommend the
adoption and publishing of the part or parts of the master adjacent thereto.
The Commission may from time to time add to, amend or extend the plan.
      (2)   All plans, plats or re-plats of land, land out in building lots,
and the streets intended to be dedicated to public use, shall be submitted by
the owner or promoter of any such subdivision or re-subdivisions to said
Commission; and before any lots are sold therefrom and before any such plat or
plan shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk of the County Court, as
provided by law, it shall first be submitted to the Commission for their
considerations and recommendation, and shall first be adopted
and approved by the Town Council.
      (3)   The Clerk of the County Court is hereby notified not to file any
such plat or re-plat in his or her office until such plat or re-plat shall have
indorsed upon it the fact it has first been submitted to the Commission, to the
Mayor and Town Council, and by the Mayor and Town Council duly approved.
   (E)   Power and duties with respect to zoning. It shall also be the function
and duty of the Commission to make and adopt a master plan for the physical
development of the town with respect to zoning. Zoning work of the Commission
shall be handled on a block basis, covering as a unit one or more existing
blocks. The Commission may have public hearings as to each area prior to its
recommendations for adoption of zoning in that section. Public notice of such
hearing shall be given by the Commission, which said notice shall be published
in a newspaper published in said town or in the event that no newspaper is
published in said town, the notice of that public hearing shall be by written
notice posted in at least ten public places throughout said town, with at least
two of said public notices to be placed at the area proposed to be affected by
said zoning. The Commission shall also prepare a zoning ordinance, along with
their recommendations, to Town Council from time to time. The Commission or any
interested party may request the presence of Town Council at any such public
hearing.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.11 ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission, subject to the approval and
confirmation of the Town Council, in each case as hereinafter provided shall
have power to grant adjustments and exceptions in and to any of the provisions
of this chapter to the extent of the following and no further:
      (1)   To vary or modify the strict application of any of the regulations
or provisions contained in this chapter in cases in which there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of such strict application;
and
      (2)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
thereof divides a lot in one ownership at the time of the passage of this
chapter.
   (B)   Application for any adjustment permissible under the provisions of
this section shall be made to the Town Recorder in the form of a written
application for a building permit or for a permit to use the property or
premises as set forth in said application. Upon receipt of any such
application, such officer shall set a time and place for a public hearing
before the Planning and Zoning Commission on such application. Such officer
shall cause public notice of such public hearing to be given by causing one
notice thereof to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town at least ten days before the date of such hearing. At said hearing the
applicant shall present a statement and adequate evidence in such form as the
Planning and Zoning Commission may require, showing the following:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting land,
building or use referred to in the application;
      (2)   The granting of the application is necessary for the preservation
and enjoyment of substantial property rights; and
      (3)   The granting of such application will not materially affect
adversely the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the property of the applicant and will not materially be
detrimental to the public welfare of injurious to property or improvements in
said neighborhood.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission will thereupon make its decision
upon the said application. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall report its
recommendations, either to deny or grant the application, to tire Town Council
within 14 days after the filing of the application.
   (D)   In recommending any adjustment or variance under the provisions of
this section, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall designate such
conditions in connection therewith as will in its opinion, secure substantially
the objectives of the regulations or provisions to which such adjustment or
variance is granted, as to light, air and the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare. No permit shall be issued under the provisions
of this section unless and until a decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, as aforesaid, approving the same is approved and confirmed by the
Town Council, with respect thereto and all facts in connection therewith, and
shall specifically and fully set forth any adjustment or variance granted and
the conditions designated. Upon receipt of such report the Town Council either
shall by resolution approve and confirm said decision, with or without changes,
whereupon the permit as applied for may be issued; or shall refuse to approve
and confirm such decision. In all cases in which adjustments or variances are
granted under the provisions of this section the Planning and Zoning Commission
and the Town Council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem
to be necessary that the conditions designated in the connection therewith are
being and will be complied with.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-14-2018)
§ 153.12 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Special use permits may be issued for any of the following:
      (1)   Any of the uses or purposes for which such permits are required or
permitted by the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Public utility or public service uses or public building in any
district when found to be necessary for the public health, safety, convenience
or welfare;
      (3)   Commercial excavating of natural materials used for building or
construction purposes, in any district;
      (4)   To classify as a conforming use any institutional use existing in
any district at the time of the establishment of such district; and
      (5)   To permit the location of any uses in a district from which they
are excluded by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Application for the issuance of a special use permit shall be
made to the Planning and Zoning Commission; provided, that any proceedings to
classify certain uses as conforming uses as provided in this section may be
initiated either by such application or by the Town Council or by the Planning
and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission may hold such
hearings on the proposal to issue a special use permit as it may consider
necessary; but at least one public hearing shall be held on any application for
a use permit for the establishment of any use listed in division (A) of this
section.
      (2)   Following the aforesaid hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall make a report to the Town Council whatever action it deems advisable; but
it shall not recommend the granting of a permit unless it finds that the
establishment, maintenance or conducting of the use for which a use permit is
sought will not under the circumstances of the particular case be detrimental
to the health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or welfare of the persons
residing or working in the neighborhood of such use, nor be detrimental to the
public welfare, nor be injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood.
      (3)   It may designate conditions and require guarantees in the granting
of use permits in the manner provided in §
153.11 for the granting of adjustments. Upon receipt of the report of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the Town Council shall hold whatever public
hearings it deems advisable and shall make a decision upon the proposal to
grant a use permit.
      (4)   If it finds that the conditions exist which are necessary under
this section before the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend the
granting of a use permit, the Town Council may grant the use permit and it may
attach to the permit such conditions and guarantees as are provided for in §
153.11 for the granting of adjustments.
   (C)   Any use permitted under the terms of any special use permit shall be
established and conducted in conformity to the terms of such permit and of any
conditions designated in connection therewith.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000; Ord. passed 6-14-2018)
§ 153.13 AMENDMENT.
   This chapter may be amended whenever the public necessity and convenience
and the general welfare require such amendment by following the procedure
specified in this section.
   (A)   An amendment may be initiated by the Town Council or the Planning and
Zoning Commission, or by the verified petition of not less than 50% of those
property owners within 300 feet of the proposed change.
   (B)   (1)   Before any amendment is adopted, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hold at least one public hearing thereon after ten days
published notice of the time and place of such hearing. Following such hearing
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a report of its findings and
recommendations with respect to the proposed amendment and shall file a copy
with the Town Recorder within ten days of the meeting at which the date of the
hearing was set.
      (2)   Failure of the Planning and Zoning Commission to report within ten
days shall be deemed to be approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission of
the proposed amendment.
   (C)   Upon the filing of such report or upon the expiration of such ten days
as aforesaid, the Town Council shall hold such public hearings upon the
amendment as it deems advisable. After the conclusion of such hearings, if any,
the Town Council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in such form as it
deems advisable. Such amendment shall be effective only if two-thirds of all
the members of the Town Council concur in its passage.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the town building inspector or other duly authorized
agent of the Town Council to enforce this chapter through the proper legal
channels.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 60
days for each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
APPENDIX A: MOBILE HOME DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
   There are a number of areas within the corporate limits of the Town of
Oceana, that are being used for mobile home parks. The town establishes the
following as the descriptions of the mobile home districts. Deed references are
given and the town intends that the description of the property conveyed by the
following deed references is incorporated herein, the same as if set out in
full.
   George W. Ford, Jr. and Ruby G. Ford
   A.   Containing 3.83 Acres, more or less, as shown on Plan N-30078, dated
October 12, 1962, of record in the Office of the Clerk of the County Court of
Wyoming County, West Virginia, in Deed Book No. 206, at page 131. And being the
same property conveyed to George W. Ford and Ruby G. Ford by Paul H. Stewart
etux etal by deed dated March 18, 1964, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office on
April 10, 1964, in Deed Book No. 212, at page 282.
      Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of
Wyoming County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to George W. Ford and
Ruby G. Ford as Map 12, Parcel 0001.0001, 3.83 (F) Clear Fork.
   B.   Containing 4.5 Acres, and being the same property conveyed to George W.
Ford, Jr. and Ruby G. Ford by Pineville Motor Sales, Inc., a corporation, by
deed dated July 17, 1970, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office on July 20, 1970,
in Deed Book No. 253, at page 281.
      Land Book Entry, The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of
Wyoming County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to George W. Ford, Jr.
and Ruby G. Ford as Map 15, Parcel 0003, 4.5 (F) Clear Fork.
   C.   Containing 1.40 Acres, more or less, and being shown on a map marked in
the lower right-hand corner thereof: “Pocahontas Land Corporation, Bluefield,
W. Va., No. 1242-C, April 1, 1983, G.B.M.”, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office
in Deed Book No. 341, at page 63. And being the same property conveyed to
George W. Ford, Jr. and Ruby G. Ford by Pocahontas Land Corporation, a
corporation of Virginia, by deed dated May 1, 1983, and recorded in said
Clerk’s Office on October 19, 1983, in Deed Book No. 341, at page 56.
      Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of
Wyoming County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to George W. Ford, Jr.
and Ruby G. Ford as Map 12, Parcel 0002.0001, 1.40 (S) Clear Fork and Laurel
Fork.
   D.   Containing 1.09 Acres, more or less, and being shown on a map marked in
the lower right-hand corner thereof: “Pocahontas Land Corporation, Bluefield,
W. Va., No. 1340-C, Aug. 12, 1986, G.B.M.”, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office
in Deed Book No. 356, at page 431. And being the same property conveyed to
George W. Ford, Jr. and Ruby G. Ford by Pocahontas Land Corporation, a
corporation of Virginia, by deed dated October 9, 1986, and recorded in said
Clerk’s Office on September 15, 1987, in Deed Book No. 356, at page 424.
   Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of Wyoming
County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to George W. Ford, Jr. and Ruby
G. Ford as Map 12, Parcel 0002.0002, 1.09 (S) Laurel Fork of Clear Fork.
   William L. Fox and Christina L. Fox
   Containing 23.33 Acres, more or less, as the same is shown and designated on
that certain map or plat entitled “Plat of Survey Showing 23.33 Acre Tract
Owned By Ronald Lee Cook Situate On The East Side of West Virginia Route No. 10
And Being On The Waters of Clear Fork Of The Guyandotte River, Scale: 1” = 50’,
Date: 8/8/83, Survey By: David E. Jackson & Assoc., P. O. Box 456, Pineville,
W.V., 24874, and of record in the Office of the Clerk of the County Commission
of Wyoming County, West Virginia, in Map File No. 2266. And being the same
property conveyed to William L. Fox and Christina L. Fox, husband and wife, by
Ronald L. Cook and Betty A. Cook, husband and wife, by deed dated May
9,   1995, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office on May 24, 1995, in Deed Book
No. 383, at page 051.
   Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of Wyoming
County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to William L. Fox and Christina
L. Fox as Map 2, Parcel 0002, 23.33 (F) Clear Fork.
   Esther Hicks
   Containing One and One-Half Acres, more or less. And being the same property
conveyed to Ralph Hicks and Esther Hicks, his wife, by deed dated June 30,
1965, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office on July 26, 1965, in Deed Book No.
221, at page 146. By his will dated June 7, 1976, and recorded November 20,
1979, in Will Book No. 16, at page 243, Ralph Hicks devised all his property to
his widow, Esther Marie Hicks.
   Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of Wyoming
County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to Esther Marie Hicks as Map 14,
Parcel 0017, 1.50 (S) Laurel Fork.
   Gerald Leslie Short and Verlia Faye Short
   Containing 27.17 Acres, more or less, excepting therefrom, the cemetery. And
being the same property conveyed to Gerald Leslie Short and Verlia Faye Short,
his wife, by C.V.H. Cook and Ruby Cook, his wife, by deed dated April 6, 1966,
and recorded in said Clerk’s Office on April 18, 1966, in Deed Book No. 225, at
page 321.
   Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of Wyoming
County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to Gerald L. Short and Verlia
Faye Short as Map 5, Parcel 0001.6001, 27.17 (F) Oceana, and as Map 5, Parcel
0001.6002, Garage Apt Mobile Home Park.
   David Shumate, Jr.
   Containing 6.50 Acres, more or less, And being the same property conveyed to
David Shumate, Jr. by David Shumate and Beulah Shumate, husband and wife, by
deed dated December 27, 1993, and recorded in said Clerk’s Office on December
29, 1993, in Deed Book No. 377, at page 995.
   Land Book Entry: The property is charged on the 1999 Land Books of Wyoming
County, West Virginia, in Oceana Sub District to David Shumate, Jr. as Map 5,
Parcel 0002.2, 6.10 Ac (S) Clear Fork.
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
APPENDIX B: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE COMPLAINT FORM
Person Making Complaint
Name_____________________________________________________________________________
Address___________________________________________________________________________
Telephone_________________________________________________________________________
Do you currently live within the town limits of the Town of Oceana? yes no
Property in Violation of Town Ordinance
Regulations for Property Maintenance §
153.07
Address of property
________________________________________________________________
Additional information describing location of
property_____________________________________
Name of property owner if
known_____________________________________________________
Name of person or business occupying property if other than property owner
__________________
Description of property conditions in violation of town
ordinance____________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
How long has this violation
existed?____________________________________________________
                        Signature of
Complainant________________________________
                        Date_________________________________________________
                        Received by Recorder:
                        Signature of
Recorder___________________________________
                        Date_________________________________________________
(Ord. passed 2-10-2000)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W. Va. Code Section Code Section
W. Va. Code Section            Code Section
2-2-3                          10.03
2-2-5                          10.06
2-2-8                          10.04
2-2-9                          10.04
2-2-10                         10.01—
                               10.03
2-2-11                         10.04
5-15-5                         75.08
Chapter 5A, Article 2          136.11
Chapter 6, Article 9A          32.18
6-9A-l et seq.                 32.17
Article 6A                     111.06;
                               111.99
Chapter 6B, Article 1          33.07
7-1-3                          150.045
7-1-3ff                        136.11
7-1-3u                         152.016
7-1-3ff                        150.051
7-1-3ss                        111.09
7-18-13                        35.013
7-18-14                        35.013
Chapter 8, Article 4           151.15
8-5-1 et seq.                  153.10
8-11-1 et seq.                 51.01
8-11-1                         76.99
8-11-3                         35.025
8-11-3(10)                     33.45
                               35.025;
8-12-5                         51.01;
                               136.11
8-12-5B                        133.08
8-12-16                        150.021
8-12-16a(b)                    150.017
8-12-16c(d)                    150.028
8-12-18                        33.05
8-13-?                         35.026
8-13-5                         35.047;
                               35.056
8-13-5a                        35.025
8-13-7                         111.25;
                               111.27
8-13-15                        35.999
8-13-25                        35.078
8-13-25(c)                     35.078
Chapter 11                     11.02
Chapter 11, Article 10         35.069
11-12-86                       138.04
Chapter 11, Article 15         35.002;
                               35.003
11-16                          111.07
11-16-1 et seq.                111.01;
                               111.04
11-16-3                        72.035;
                               111.01
11-16-18                       111.07
11-16-19                       111.08;
                               111.99
Chapter 12, Article 3          136.11
14-2A-4                        72.022
Chapter 16, Article 1          52.02;
                               150.051
16-1-2                         150.051
16-1-9                         54.001
Chapter 16, Article 2          150.051
16-2-1                         150.051
16-2A-4                        150.051
16-3A-7                        54.001
16-13A-1                       54.001
16-13A-8                       54.001
16-13A-9                       54.001;
                               54.002
Chapter 17                     72.211;
                               72.213
17-9-1                         136.12
Chapter 17, Article 23         151.18
17-23-2                        70.21
17-24A-1                       74.07
17-24A-2                       74.07
Chapter 17-A                   72.205;
                               72.208
17A-1-1 et seq.                76.11
17A-1-1                        130.02
17A-3-1                        72.205
17A-3-13                       72.206
17A-3-14d                      74.06
17A-3-15                       72.207
17A-8-4                        72.182
17A-8-6                        72.182
17A-9-2                        72.208
17A-9-3                        72.209
17A-10-1                       72.207
17A-10-1 et seq.               73.18
17A-11-1                       72.999
17B-1-1 et seq.                76.11
17B-2-1                        72.210
17B-2-1 et seq.                72.210
17B-2-1a                       72.211
17B-2-2                        72.211
17B-2-3a                       72.191
17B-2-9                        72.212
17B-4-1                        72.213
17B-4-3                        72.214
17B-4-4                        72.215
Chapter 17C                    73.18
17C-1-1                        70.01
17C-1-2                        70.01
17C-1-3                        70.01
17C-1-4                        70.01
17C-1-5                        70.01
17C-1-5a                       70.01
17C-1-6                        70.01
17C-1-7                        70.01
17C-1-8                        70.01
17C-1-12                       70.01
17C-1-13                       70.01
17C-1-15                       70.01
17C-1-16                       70.01
17C-1-17                       70.01
17C-1-21                       70.01
17C-1-22                       70.01
17C-1-24                       70.01
17C-1-25                       70.01
17C-1-26                       70.01
17C-1-29                       70.01
17C-1-30                       70.01
17C-1-31                       70.01
17C-1-32                       70.01
17C-1-33                       70.01
17C-1-35                       70.01
17C-1-36                       70.01
17C-1-37                       70.01
17C-1-38                       70.01
17C-1-39                       70.01
17C-1-40                       70.01
17C-1-41                       70.01
17C-1-42                       70.01
17C-1-43                       70.01
17C-1-44                       70.01
17C-1-45                       70.01
17C-1-46                       70.01
17C-1-47                       70.01
17C-1-48                       70.02
17C-1-49                       70.01
17C-1-50                       70.01
17C-1-51                       70.01
17C-1-52                       70.01
17C-1-53                       70.01
17C-1-54                       70.01
17C-1-55                       70.01
17C-1-60                       70.01
17C-1-62                       70.01
17C-1-64                       70.01
17C-1-65                       70.01
17C-1-66                       70.01
17C-1-69                       73.28
17C-1-70                       70.01
17C-2-1                        70.16
17C-2-3(c)                     70.17
17C-2-4                        70.18
17C-2-5                        70.19
17C-2-6                        70.20
17C-2-9                        70.22
17C-3-1                        70.36;
                               71.22
17C-3-4                        71.15
17C-3-4a                       71.16
17C-3-4b                       71.22
17C-3-5                        71.17
17C-3-6                        71.18
17C-3-7                        71.19
17C-3-8                        71.20
17C-3-9                        71.21
17C-4-1                        72.001;
                               72.215
17C-4-2                        72.002
17C-4-3                        72.003
17C-4-4                        72.004
17C-4-5                        72.005
17C-4-6                        72.006
17C-4-8                        72.007
17C-4-12                       72.008
17C-5                          72.022
17C-5-1                        72.191
17C-5-2                        72.020
17C-5-2b                       72.020;
                               72.023
17C-5-3                        72.021
17C-5-7a                       72.022
17C-5A-1 et seq.               72.022
17C-5A-3                       72.020
17C-5A-3a                      72.020;
                               72.022
17C-5D-2                       72.035
17C-5D-3                       72.036
17C-5D-4                       72.037
Article 17C-6                  72.050
17C-6-1                        72.050;
                               72.215
17C-6-3a(a)                    72.051
17C-6-4                        72.052
17C-6-5                        72.052
17C-6-7                        72.054
17C-6-8                        72.215
17C-6-8(a)                     72.053
Chapter 17C-6-11               73.18
17C-6-11                       72.055;
                               72.215
17C-7-1                        72.070
17C-7-2                        72.071
17C-7-3                        72.072
17C-7-4                        72.073
17C-7-5                        72.074
17C-7-6                        72.075
17C-7-7                        72.076
17C-7-8(b)                     72.077
17C-7-8(c)                     72.077
17C-7-9                        72.078
17C-7-10                       72.079
17C-7-11                       72.080
17C-7-12                       72.081
17C-8-1                        72.095
17C-8-2                        72.096
17C-8-3                        72.097
17C-8-4                        72.098
17C-8-5                        72.099
17C-8-6                        72.100
17C-8-7                        72.101
17C-8-8                        72.102
17C-8-9                        72.103
17C-8-10                       72.104
17C-9-1                        72.115
17C-9-2                        72.116
17C-9-3                        72.117
17C-9-4                        72.118
17C-9-5                        72.119
17C-9-6                        72.215
17C-10-1(a)                    75.01
17C-10-2                       75.02
17C-10-3                       75.03
17C-10-4                       75.04
17C-10-5                       75.05
17C-10-6                       75.06
17C-10-7                       75.99
17C-10-8                       75.07
17C-10A-1                      75.09
17C-10A-2                      75.09;
                               75.99
17C-11-1                       76.01
17C-11-2                       76.02
17C-11-3                       76.03
17C-11-4                       76.04
17C-11-5                       76.05
17C-11-6                       76.06
17C-11-7                       76.07
17C-11-8                       76.11
17C-11A-1 et seq.              76.11
17C-11A-3                      76.10
17C-11A-4                      76.10
17C-11A-5                      76.10
17C-11A-6                      76.10
17C-11A-7                      76.99
17C-12-1                       72.135
17C-12-2                       72.136
17C-12-3                       72.137
17C-12-4                       72.138
17C-12-5                       72.139
17C-12-6                       72.140
17C-12-7                       72.141
17C-12-7a                      72.142
17C-12-8                       72.141
17C-13-1                       74.01
17C-13-2                       74.02
17C-13-3                       74.03
17C-13-6                       74.06
17C-14-2                       72.170
17C-14-4                       72.171
17C-14-5                       72.172
17C-14-6                       72.173
17C-14-9                       72.174
17C-14-9a                      72.175;
                               72.999
17C-14-10                      72.176
17C-14-11                      71.01
17C-14-12                      73.18
17C-14-13                      74.04
17C-14-14                      72.190;
                               136.11
17C-14-15                      72.191;
                               72.999
17C-14-15(h)(5)                72.191
Article 17C-15                 70.21
17C-15-1                       73.01
17C-15-2                       73.02
17C-15-3                       73.03
17C-15-4                       73.04
17C-15-5                       73.05
17C-15-6                       73.99
17C-15-14                      73.06
17C-15-15                      73.07
17C-15-16                      73.08
17C-15-17                      73.09
17C-15-18                      73.10
17C-15-19                      73.11
17C-15-20                      73.12
17C-15-21                      73.13
17C-15-22                      73.14
17C-15-23                      73.15
17C-15-24                      73.16
17C-15-25                      73.17
17C-15-26                      70.01;
                               73.18
17C-15-26(e)                   72.141
17C-15-27                      73.18
17C-15-31                      73.19
17C-15-32                      73.20
17C-15-33                      73.21
17C-15-34                      73.22
17C-15-35                      73.23
17C-15-36                      73.24
17C-15-36a                     73.33;
                               73.99
17C-15-37                      73.25
17C-15-41                      73.26
17C-15-42                      73.27
17C-15-44                      73.28
17C-15-45                      73.29
17C-15-46                      73.30;
                               73.34
17C-15-48                      73.32
17C-15-49                      73.99
Chapter 17C, Article 16        73.31
Chapter 17C, Article 16        73.32
17C-16-9                       73.31
Chapter 17C, Article 17        72.155;
                               72.157
17C-17-2                       72.157
17C-17-3                       72.156
17C-17-4                       72.157
17C-17-5                       72.157
17C-17-6                       72.158
17C-17-7                       72.159
17C-17-11b                     72.157
17C-18-1                       70.99
Chapter 17C, Article 19        72.037
17C-19-3                       72.037
Chapter 17C, Article 23        72.177
17D-1-1 et seq.                76.11
Article 17D-2A                 72.189
17D-2A-3                       72.003
17D-2A-9                       72.999
17D-4-2                        72.003
17E-1-1 et seq.                72.191
Chapter 18, Article 8          131.04
18-8-1(4)                      131.04
18-8-1a                        131.04
18A-5-1                        135.02
18A-5-1a                       135.02
19-16A-7                       152.016
19-20A-1 to 19-20A-8           90.09
19-20A-3                       90.09
Chapter 20, Article 7          136.11
21-2-4                         110.42
21-9-2                         152.016
21-9-4                         152.075
Chapter 22, Article 15         136.11
22-15-2                        136.11
22-15-15                       136.11
27-1-17                        111.06
Chapter 27, Article 5          111.99
Chapter 27, Article 6A         111.06;
                               111.99
itle 28, Series 2, 3.9(b)      152.061
Chapter 29, Article 3E         138.04
29-3-24                        138.04
29-3E-2                        138.04
29-3E-4                        138.04
29-3E-5                        138.04
29-22A-1 et seq.               111.09
29-22C-1 et seq.               111.09
29-25-1 et seq.                111.09
Chapter 29A                    111.07
30-6-4                         72.177
Chapter 30, Article 13         152.016
Chapter 30, Article 13 et seq. 152.016
30-29-1                        74.06;
                               130.04
30-29-4                        72.022
Art. 31-2A                     137.01
31-2A-6                        137.99
38-10C-1                       35.069
38-10C-2                       35.069
Chapter 46A, Article 2         110.41
Chapter 47, Article 16         110.41
Series 47-38                   150.051
49-1-449-1-206                 111.13
49-3-101                       111.13
50-3-2                         72.022
55-7A-2                        134.03
Chapter 58, Article 3          150.061
Chapter 59                     34.05
59-2-1(c)                      76.99
59-3-1 et seq.                 33.26;
                               34.05
                               111.02;
Chapter 60                     111.04;
                               111.06
60-1-1 et seq.                 111.01;
                               111.06
60-1-5                         72.035;
                               111.01
60-1-5a                        111.11
60-3-22                        111.04
60-3-22a                       111.05;
                               111.99
60-3A-24                       111.13;
                               111.99
60-3A-25a                      111.11
Chapter 60, Article 6          111.02
60-6-5                         111.02
60-6-7                         111.02
60-6-8                         111.04
60-6-9                         111.06;
                               111.99
Chapter 60, Article 7          111.07;
                               111.55
Article 60-7                   111.07
                               111.04;
60-7-1 et seq.                 111.07;
                               111.09
60-7-12                        111.09;
                               111.99
60-7-12a                       111.10;
                               111.99
Chapter 60, Article 8          111.11
60-8-1 et seq.                 111.04;
                               111.07
60-8-3                         111.01
60-8-6                         111.11
60-8-20                        111.11
60-8-20a                       111.12;
                               111.99
Chapter 60A                    111.04;
                               135.05
60A-1-101                      72.020
60A-l-101(e)                   90.03
60A-2-204                      138.99
60A-2-204 et seq.              134.05
60A-2-205                      138.99
60A-2-206                      138.99
61-1-9                         130.04;
                               130.99
61-2-9                         135.01
61-2-15                        135.02
61-2-26                        134.04
61-3-13                        136.03
61-3-18                        136.04
61-3-30                        136.05
61-3-43                        137.02
61-3-44                        136.06
61-3-45                        136.06
61-3A-1                        Ch. 136
61-3A-2                        136.01
61-3A-3                        136.01
61-3A-4                        Ch. 136
61-3A-5                        136.01
61-3A-6                        Ch. 136
61-3B-1                        136.02
61-3B-2                        136.02
61-3B-3                        136.02
61-5-14                        130.01;
                               130.99
61-5-17                        130.02;
                               130.99
61-6-1b                        131.01;
                               131.99
61-6-14a                       131.02;
                               131.99
61-6-17                        130.03;
                               130.99
61-6-20                        130.07
61-7-1                         136.02;
                               138.01
61-7-7                         138.99
61-7-9                         138.03
61-7-10                        138.02
61-8-5                         133.01
61-8-6                         133.02
61-8-7                         133.03
61-8-8                         133.04
61-8-9                         133.06
61-8-16                        133.05
61-8-19                        90.03;
                               90.99
Chapter 61, Article 8D         134.02
61-8D-10                       134.01
61-10-1                        132.01
61-10-2                        132.02
61-10-3                        132.03
61-10-4                        132.04
61-10-5                        132.05
61-10-6                        132.06
61-10-9                        132.07
61-10-10                       132.08
61-10-11                       132.09
61-11-8                        130.05
61-11A-5                       134.01
62-1-5(a)                      130.06
62-5-2                         72.022
62-5-7                         72.022
62-5-10                        72.022
62-11A-1 et seq.               72.020
62-11B-1 et seq.               72.020
62-11B-5                       72.020
                               
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
301.01             70.01
301.02             70.01
301.03             70.01
301.04             70.01
301.05             70.01
301.06             70.01
301.07             70.01
301.08             70.01
301.09             70.01
301.10             70.01
301.11             70.01
301.12             70.01
301.13             70.01
301.14             70.01
301.15             70.01
301.16             70.01
301.17             70.01
301.18             70.01
301.19             70.01
301.20             70.01
301.21             70.01
301.22             70.01
301.23             70.01
301.24             70.01
301.25             70.01
301.26             70.01
301.27             70.01
301.28             70.01
301.29             70.01
301.30             70.01
301.31             70.01
301.32             70.01
301.33             70.01
301.34             70.01
301.35             70.01
301.36             70.01
301.37             70.01
301.38             70.01
301.39             70.01
301.40             70.01
301.41             70.01
301.42             70.01
301.43             70.01
301.44             70.01
301.45             70.01
301.46             70.01
301.47             70.01
303.01             70.15
303.02             70.16
303.03             70.17
303.04             70.18
303.05             70.19
303.06             70.20
303.07             70.21
303.99             70.99
305.01             70.35
305.02             70.36
305.03             70.37
305.04             70.38
305.05             70.39
305.06             70.40
305.07             70.41
311.01             71.01
311.02             71.02
311.03             71.03
311.04             71.04
311.99             71.99
313.01             71.15
313.02             71.16
313.03             71.17
313.04             71.18
313.05             71.19
313.06             71.20
313.07             71.21
313.99             71.99
331.01             72.001
331.02             72.002
331.03             72.003
331.04             72.004
331.05             72.005
331.06             72.006
331.07             72.007
331.08             72.008
331.99             72.999
333.01             72.020
333.02             72.021
333.03             72.022
333.99             72.999
335.01             72.050
335.02             72.051
335.03             72.052
335.04             72.053
335.99             72.999
337.01             72.070
337.02             72.071
337.03             72.072
337.04             72.073
337.05             72.074
337.06             72.075
337.07             72.076
337.08             72.077
337.09             72.078
337.10             72.079
337.11             72.080
337.13             72.081
337.99             72.999
339.01             72.095
339.02             72.096
339.03             72.097
339.04             72.098
339.05             72.099
339.06             72.100
339.07             72.101
339.08             72.102
339.09             72.103
339.10             72.104
339.99             72.999
341.01             72.115
341.02             72.116
341.03             72.117
341.04             72.118
341.05             72.119
341.99             72.999
343.01             72.135
343.02             72.136
343.03             72.137
343.04             72.138
343.05             72.139
343.06             72.140
343.07             72.141
343.08             72.143
343.99             72.999
345.01             73.01
345.02             73.02
345.03             73.03
345.04             73.04
345.05             73.05
345.06             73.06
345.07             73.07
345.08             73.08
345.09             73.09
345.10             73.10
345.11             73.11
345.12             73.12
345.13             73.13
345.14             73.14
345.15             73.15
345.16             73.16
345.17             73.17
345.18             73.18
345.19             73.19
345.20             73.20
345.21             73.21
345.22             73.22
345.23             73.23
345.24             73.24
345.25             73.25
345.27             73.26
345.28             73.27
345.29             73.28
345.30             73.29
345.31             73.30
345.32             73.31
345.99             73.99
347.01             72.155
347.02             72.156
347.03             72.157
347.04             72.158
347.05             72.159
349.02             72.170
349.03             72.171
349.04             72.172
349.05             72.173
349.06             72.174
349.07             72.176
349.08             72.177
349.09             72.178
349.10             72.179
349.11             72.180
349.12             72.181
349.13             72.182
349.14             72.183
349.15             72.184
349.16             72.185
349.17             72.186
349.18             72.187
349.19             72.188
349.99             72.999
351.01             72.205
351.02             72.206
351.03             72.207
351.04             72.208
351.05             72.209
351.06             72.210
351.07             72.211
351.08             72.212
351.09             72.213
351.10             72.214
351.11             72.215
351.99             72.999
361.01             74.01
361.02             74.02
361.03             74.03
361.04             74.04
361.05             74.05
361.06             74.06
361.07             74.07
361.08             74.08
361.09             74.09
361.11             74.10
361.12             74.11
361.13             74.12
361.14             74.13
361.15             74.14
361.99             74.99
371.01             75.01
371.02             75.02
371.03             75.03
371.04             75.04
371.05             75.05
371.06             75.06
371.07             75.07
371.08             75.08
371.99             75.99
373.01             76.01
373.02             76.02
373.03             76.03
373.04             76.04
373.05             76.05
373.06             76.06
373.07             76.07
373.08             76.08
373.09             76.09
373.99             76.99
501.01             130.01
501.02             130.02
501.04             130.03
501.05             130.04
501.06             130.05
501.07             130.06
501.08             130.07
501.09             130.08
501.10             130.09
501.99             130.99
505.01             90.01;
                   90.99
505.02             90.02
505.03             90.03
505.031            90.04
505.05             90.05
505.06             90.06
505.07             90.07
505.08             90.08
505.09             90.09;
                   90.99
505.10             90.10
505.11             90.11
505.12             90.12
505.13             90.13
505.14             90.14
505.15             90.15
505.16             90.16;
                   90.99
505.17             90.17;
                   90.99
505.99             90.99
507.01             90.30
507.02             90.31
507.03             90.32
507.04             90.33
507.05             90.34
507.06             90.35;
                   90.99
507.07             90.36;
                   90.99
507.08             90.37
507.09             90.38
507.10             90.39
507.11             90.40
507.12             90.41
507.13             90.42
507.14             90.43
509.01             131.01
509.02             131.02
509.03             131.03
509.04             131.04
509.05             131.05
509.06             131.06
509.07             131.07
509.08             131.08
509.09             131.09
509.99             131.99
513.01             132.01
513.02             132.02
513.03             132.03
513.04             132.04
513.05             132.05
513.06             132.06
513.07             132.07
513.08             132.08
513.09             132.09
513.99             132.99
517.01             133.01
517.02             133.02
517.03             133.03
517.04             133.04
517.06             133.05
517.07             133.06
517.08             133.07
517.10             133.08
517.99             133.99
521.01             111.01
521.02             111.02
521.03             111.03
521.04             111.04
521.05             111.06
521.06             111.07
521.07             111.09
521.08             111.11
521.99             111.99
525.01             134.01
525.02             134.02
525.03             134.03
525.04             134.04
525.99             134.99
529.01             135.01
529.02             135.02
529.99             135.99
533.01             136.01
533.02             136.02
533.03             136.03
533.04             136.04
533.05             136.05
533.06             136.06
533.07             136.07
533.08             136.08
533.09             136.09
533.10             136.10
533.11             136.11
533.99             136.99
541.01             137.01
541.02             137.02
541.99             137.99
545.01             138.01
545.02             138.02
545.03             138.03
545.04             138.04
545.05             138.05
545.06             138.06
545.07             138.07
545.99             138.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
                        35.045—
-        - -            35.078;
                        35.999
-        - -            72.020
-        - -            72.020
-        - -            Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        - -            Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        - -            90.18;
                        90.99
-        - -            90.18;
                        90.99
-        - -            111.27
-        - -            111.55
-        9-7-1948       110.01;
                        110.99
-        - -1955        150.001—
                        150.003
                        111.40;
-        9-7-1955       111.41;
                        111.99
                        110.30—
-        eff. - -1957   110.53;
                        110.99
-        eff. 1-7-1957  113.01
-        2-4-1957       138.07
-        9-2-1957       150.075;
                        150.999
-        11-9-1962      72.020
                        151.15—
-        - -1965        151.18;
                        151.99
-        2-4-1965       30.03
-        2-7-1977       74.14
-        8-3-1978       91.01;
                        91.99
-        4-5-1979       135.03;
                        135.99
-        12-10-1979     111.25—
                        111.27
-        3-24-1980      34.02
-        4-3-1986       34.01—
                        34.06
-        8-28-1986      35.050
-        2-12-1987      54.005;
                        54.999
-        3-10-1988      31.01
                        35.025—
-        5-4-1989       35.033;
                        35.999
-        5-26-1992      31.01
-        5-26-1992      35.047;
                        35.069
-        9-19-1996      53.01
-        11-27-1996     131.04
-        3-17-1998      31.01
                        153.01—
                        153.14;
-        2-10-2000      153.99;
                         Ch. 153, App. A;
                        Ch. 153, App. B
                        54.001—
                        54.004;
                        54.007;
                        54.008;
                        54.020—
-        4-18-2000      54.038;
                        54.050—
                        54.060;
                        54.075—
                        54.078;
                        54.090—
                        54.092
-        10-11-2001     90.12
-        10-28-2004     52.01—
                        52.10
-        11-18-2004     131.04
-        4-14-2005      73.34
-        5-12-2005      72.020
-        2-9-2006       136.11
                        152.001—
                        152.003;
                        152.015;
                        152.016;
                        152.030—
                        152.034;
                        152.045—
                        152.048;
                        152.060—
-        5-11-2006      152.064;
                        152.075;
                        152.090—
                        152.098;
                        152.110;
                        152.111;
                        152.125;
                        152.126;
                        152.140;
                        152.141;
                        152.999
-        6-8-2006       50.02;
                        50.99
-        2-8-2007       153.04
                        35.001—
-        6-14-2007      35.013;
                        35.999
                        31.15;
-        11-8-2007      31.17—
                        31.19
-        12-13-2007     131.07
-        - -2008        72.020
-        - -2008        72.022
-        - -2008        72.022
-        - -2008        72.999
-        - -2008        135.04
                        31.15—
-        8-10-2008      31.19;
                        31.20
-        1-13-2010      31.20
-        1-13-2010      32.01
                        33.01—
                        33.08;
-        1-13-2010      33.20—
                        33.30;
                        33.45—
                        33.48
-        9-9-2010       32.15—
                        32.18
-        9-9-2010       36.045—
                        36.057
-        9-9-2010       54.005;
                        54.999
                        90.01—
                        90.17;
-        9-9-2010       90.30—
                        90.43;
                        90.99
-        9-9-2010       110.02
-        9-9-2010       112.01—
                        112.05
-        1-13-2011      37.01—
                        37.17
-        1-13-2011      37.18
-        6-9-2011       30.02
-        6-9-2011       31.02
-        6-9-2011       36.002
-        6-14-2012      30.01
-        6-14-2012      34.07
                        33.01—
                        33.08;
-        7-12-2012      33.20—
                        33.30;
                        33.45—
                        33.48
-        7-12-2012      36.015—
                        36.018
-        7-12-2012      36.070—
                        36.073
-        8-9-2012       34.15—
                        34.18
-        9-13-2012      36.030—
                        36.033
-        12-13-2012     110.15—
                        110.18
-        5-9-2013       54.005
                        150.045—
-        9-12-2013      150.062;
                        150.999
-        10-10-2013     112.40;
                        112.99
-        10-10-2013     136.12
-        2-13-2014      112.20—
                        112.23
                        51.01—
-        8-14-2014      51.09;
                        51.99
-        8-14-2014      135.05
-        1-22-2015      151.01—
                        151.04
-        2-12-2015      36.074
                        112.35—
-        10-20-2015     112.39;
                        112.99
-        1-14-2016      134.05
-        5-12-2016      50.01;
                        50.99
-        8-5-2016       53.02
-        10-13-2016     34.04
-        10-20-2016     53.01
-        2-9-2017       35.078
-        4-13-2017      50.01;
                        50.99
-        4-25-2017      53.01
-        11-16-2017     54.006
                        153.02;
                        153.06;
-        6-14-2018      153.08;
                        153.11;
                        153.12
-        7-12-2018      53.01
                        150.015—
-        5-9-2019       150.030;
                        150.999
-        - -2024        34.02
-        10-9-2024      53.02;
                        53.03
-        12-12-2024     54.006
-        2- -2025       112.40
                       
 
