PARSONS, WEST VIRGINIA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 11-30-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   An act to create the municipal corporation of the City of Parsons in the
County of Tucker, to grant a charter thereto and annul the charter of the Town
of Parsons.
   (Passed February 10, 1907. In effect from passage. Approved by the Governor
February 25, 1907.)
§ 1 CORPORATE NAME, RIGHTS AND POWERS.
   That the inhabitants of so much of the county of Tucker as is within the
bounds prescribed by § 2 of this act, and their successors, shall be and
remain, and they are hereby made, a body politic and corporate by the name of
“the City of Parsons”, and such shall have perpetual succession and a common
seal, and by that name may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, purchase,
lease and hold real estate and personal property necessary to the purchase of
said corporation.
§ 2 CORPORATE LIMITS AND BOUNDARIES; WARDS.
   The corporate limits of said City shall hereafter be as follows:
Beginning at a large red oak called for in the old corporate survey, north 50
degrees west 67 poles and 8 links to a stone on the north bank of Sugar Camp
Run, 1 pole and 3 links south of Clover Run a large white oak; thence South 48-
3/4 degrees east 24 poles and 15 links to a small maple with two oak and a
birch painter standing on a shelving bank north of the county road; thence
south 52 1/2 degrees east 12 poles and 12 1/2 links to the Western Maryland
Railway Company’s “lock out” sign; thence crossing Shaffers Fork 47 degrees
east ______ to a stone on the bank of said river in John Peter’s Field,
reference point north 24 degrees east 3 poles to a small poplar on the bank of
the river; thence north 81 degrees east 250 poles and 10 links to a stone west
of the county road and at right angles to the southeast corner of the cemetery
fence, 8 poles and 18 links, reference point south 75 degrees east 2 poles and
10 links to a large chestnut standing east of the county road; thence north 27-
3/4 degrees east 21 poles to the northeast corner of the cemetery fence; thence
continuing with the same bearing 72 degrees east reversed of the side of the
cemetery lot to the Black Fork River; thence with the meanders of said river to
the head gates of the sluice dam; thence crossing Black Fork River to the east
abutment of the Western Maryland Railway Bridge across said river; thence
crossing said river to the west abutment of the county bridge; thence down the
river with the meanders thereof to two small white oaks called for in the old
survey of the Parsons corporation; thence with the old corporation line
reversed, south 75 degrees west 190-3/4 poles to a stone against the bank about
4 poles north of a drain; thence South 23 degrees east 125 poles to a stone
against the bank about 4 poles north of a drain; thence South 23 degrees east
125 poles to a beech with poplar, gum and two beech pointers; thence South 5
degrees east; 97 1/2 poles to the beginning.
   The territory of the City shall be divided as follows:
   First Ward: All that section of said City lying west of Shavers Fork River.
   Second Ward: All that section of said City lying east of Shavers fork River
and west of the Black Fork River.
   And the Council of said City may change the boundaries of said wards, or
create such additional wards as may appear to the said council to be necessary,
but no change shall be made in the boundaries of said wards, nor any ward
created less than sixty days before the holding of any general election for
said City.
(Amending 11-30-2023)
§ 3 MUNICIPAL AUTHORITIES.
   The municipal authorities of the city shall consist of the mayor, recorder
and two councilmen from each ward, who together shall form the common council;
said councilmen shall be elected by the voters of the entire city.
§ 4 EXERCISE OF CORPORATE POWERS.
   All the corporate powers and functions pertaining to the city shall be
exercised by its common council or under its authority, in the corporate name
of the city unless otherwise provided by state law or municipal ordinances.
§ 5 SUBORDINATE OFFICERS.
   The council may appoint a superintendent of streets, light, and water, an
attorney, an assessor, a collector and all other officers whose offices may be
established by an ordinance of the council.
§ 6 ELIGIBILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No person shall be eligible to the office of mayor, recorder or councilman
unless, at the time of his election, he is legally entitled to vote in the city
election for member of the common council, and was for the preceding year
assessed with taxes upon real or personal property within the said city of the
assessed value of two hundred dollars, and shall have actually paid taxes so
assessed. And no person shall be eligible to any subordinate office under said
city who is not at the time of his election or appointment entitled to vote for
members of the common council.
§ 7 POWERS, DUTIES AND COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   The powers, duties and compensation of all officers shall be established by
ordinance. But the compensation pertaining to any office shall not be increased
or diminished so as to effect any officer subsequent to his election or
appointment and during the term for which he was elected or appointed.
§ 8 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   Whenever a vacancy shall occur from any cause in the office of mayor,
recorder or councilman, the common council shall fill the same by election by a
viva voce vote until the end of the term.
§ 9 WHO ARE VOTERS.
   Every person who has been a bona fide resident of the city for sixty days
next preceding the city election therein, and who is a qualified voter under
the constitution and laws of this state, shall be entitled to vote at any city
election in the ward in which he actually resides but no person shall be deemed
a resident of such city by reason of being stationed therein for any temporary
purpose.
§ 10 ELECTIONS.
   The first election hereunder shall be held on the first Tuesday in January,
one thousand nine hundred and eight, at which election all of the officers
provided for in
§ 3 shall be elected. The term of office of all persons elected at said first
election shall begin February one, one thousand nine hundred and eight and
shall be until their successors are elected and qualified. The next election
hereunder shall be held on each year thereafter on the first Thursday in April.
The term of office of all persons elected at the election held hereunder in one
thousand nine hundred and nine and all succeeding elections shall be for two
years, except that of mayor and recorder, which shall be for one year, and
until their successors are elected and qualified, unless sooner removed in the
manner provided by law. At said election held on the first day of January, one
thousand nine hundred and eight, two members of the council shall be elected in
each ward in said city who shall reside in the ward for which they are elected,
and the candidate receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected for
two years and the candidate receiving the next highest number of votes shall be
elected for one year from the first day of day next succeeding his election,
and shall hold their offices until their successors are elected and qualified,
and on the first Monday in April in each succeeding calendar year one member of
the council shall be elected in each ward, whose term of office shall begin on
the first day of May next succeeding his election and continue for a term of
two years and until his successor is elected and qualified; but shall thereby
become vacant, and the common council shall fill the said vacancy by
appointment until the next general election of some one residing in the ward
who is eligible to the office.
   All appointed officers shall hold their office during the pleasure of the
common council.
   The election shall be held and conducted and the result thereof ascertained,
certified, returned and determined under the constitution and general laws of
the state governing municipal elections, and shall conform as nearly as
practicable to such laws. Contested elections shall be heard and decided by
council, and the proceedings therein shall conform as nearly as may be to
similar proceedings in the case of county and district officers. The council
shall be the judge of the election, return and qualification of its own
members. In case two or more persons receive an equal number of votes for the
same office, if such number be the highest cast for such office, the persons
under whom the supervision is held shall decide by lot which of them shall be
returned elected, and shall make their return accordingly.
§ 11 QUALIFICATION OF OFFICERS.
   Every person elected or appointed to an office in such city shall within
twenty days after his election or appointment, and before entering upon the
duties of his office, take and subscribe the oath of office prescribed by law
in the case of district officers, which may be done before the mayor or
recorder of such city, or before any person authorized by law to administer
oaths; and the officer administering the oath shall be filed with the recorder
of the city.
§ 12 POWERS AND DUTIES OF APPOINTED OFFICERS.
   The council shall prescribe the powers and define the duties of all officers
by it appointed, except so far as the same are by this act defined; shall fix
the compensation, and may require and take from them respectively, bonds
payable to the city in the corporate name with such sureties and such penalties
as may be deemed proper, conditioned for the faithful performance of their
duties.
§ 13 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The council shall have the authority to remove from office any officer of
the city whether elected or appointed, for misconduct or neglect of duty by an
affirmative vote of three-fourths of the members of the council, but only after
reasonable notice to such officer, and a hearing of the charges preferred.
§ 14 MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
   The council shall be presided over at its meetings by the mayor, or in his
absence by the recorder; in the absence of both mayor and recorder by one of
the councilmen selected by the majority of the council present. A majority of
the council shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
§ 15 VOTES OF MEMBERS.
   The recorder shall have a vote as a member of the council. The mayor shall
have a vote only in case of a tie, and in no case shall the presiding officer
have but one vote. No member of council shall vote upon or take part in the
consideration of any proposition in which he is or may be interested otherwise
than as a resident of said city.
§ 16 BONDS.
   The council shall require and take from all officers elected or appointed as
aforesaid, whose duty it shall be to receive funds, assets or property
belonging to said city, or having charge of the same, such bonds, obligations
or other writings as may be deemed necessary and proper to secure the faithful
performance of their several duties. All bonds, obligations or other writings
taken in pursuance of any of the provisions of this act shall be made payable
to the city of Parsons, with such penalties as may be deemed proper,
conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties, and for the
accounting of and the paying over as required by law, all monies coming into
their hands by virtue of their offices, and the respective persons, and their
heirs, executors and assigns bound thereby shall be subject to the same
proceedings on said bond, obligations and other writings. For enforcing the
conditions of the terms thereof, by motion or otherwise, before any court of
competent jurisdiction held in and for the county of Tucker, that collectors of
county levies and other sureties are or shall be subject to on their bonds for
enforcing the payment of the county levies.
§ 17 RECORDS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The council shall cause to be kept in a well bound book called the “council
journal” an accurate record of all its proceedings, bylaws, ordinances, order,
and resolutions which shall be fully indexed, and shall be open to anyone who
is required to pay taxes to such city. The records of the town of Parsons shall
be deposited with the council of said city, and it shall make suitable
provisions for the safekeeping and preservation of the same. At each meeting of
the council the proceedings of the last meeting shall be read, corrected if
erroneous, and signed by presiding officer for the time being.
§ 18 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL.
   The council of said city shall have power to lay off, vacate, close, open,
alter, grade, and keep in good repair the roads, streets, alleys, pavements,
sidewalks, crosswalks, drains and gutters therein for the use of the citizens
or of the public and to improve and light the same, and to keep the same free
from obstructions of every kind; to regulate the width of pavements and
sidewalks on the streets and alleys, and to order the pavement, sidewalks,
footways, drains and gutters to be kept in good order, free and clean, by the
owners and occupants of the real property next adjacent thereto; to establish
and regulate markets, prescribe the time for holing the same, provide suitable
and convenient buildings therefore and prevent the forestalling or regrating of
such markets; to prevent injury or annoyance to the public or to individuals
from anything dangerous, offensive or unwholesome; to prohibit or regulate
slaughter houses and soap factories within the city limits, or the exercise of
any unhealthful or offensive business, trade of employment; to abate all
nuisances within the city limits or to require and compel the abatement or
removal thereof by or at the expense of the owner or occupant of the ground on
which they are placed or found; to cause to be filled up, raised or drained by
or at the expense of the owner any city lot or tract of land covered or subject
to be covered by stagnant water; to prevent horses, hogs, cattle, sheep or
other animals and fowls of all kinds from going or being at large in such city,
and as means of prevention to provide for impounding and confining such animals
and fowls, and upon failure to reclaim for the sale thereof; to protect places
of divine worship and to preserve order in and about the premises where and
when such worship is held; to regulate the keeping of gunpowder and other
flammable or dangerous substances; to provide and regulate the building of
houses and other structures, and for the making and maintaining of division
fences by the owners of adjoining premises, and the proper drainage of city
lots and other parcels of land, by or at the expense of the owner or occupant
thereof; to provide against damage or danger by fire; to punish for carrying
deadly weapons, and assaults and batteries; to prohibit loitering in saloons,
or upon the streets; to prevent lewd and lascivious conduct, the sale or
exhibition of indecent pictures, or other representations; the Sabbath day,
profane swearing, the illegal sale of all intoxicating liquors, drinks,
mixtures and preparations, beer, ale, wine, or drinks or like nature; to
protect the persons of those residing within said city; to build or purchase,
or lease and to use a suitable place within or near said city for safekeeping
or punishment of persons charged with, or convicted of the violation of
ordinances to provide for the employment of persons convicted of the violation
of ordinances, or who may be committed in default of the payment of fines,
penalties or costs, and who are otherwise unable to discharge the same by
putting them to work for the benefit of the city, and to use such means of
escape while at work, as they may deem expedient; to erect or authorize or
prohibit the erection of gas work, electric light works or meter works within
the city limits, to prevent injury to such works or the pollution of any gas or
water used or intended to be used by the public or by individuals, and to do
all things necessary to adequately supply said city and the inhabitants thereof
with pure, healthful and wholesome water; to use, generate, distribute, sell
and control electricity and gas for heat, light, and power, and to furnish
lights for the streets, houses, buildings, stores, and other places in and
about said city; to provide a sewerage system for said city; to provide for and
regulate the weighing and measuring of hay, coal, lumber and other articles
sold, or offered for sale within the said city; to establish and construct
wharves and docks, and to repair, alter, or remove any landing, wharf or dock,
which has been or shall be so constructed, and to establish and collect rates
and changes for the use thereof; to regulate the running and speed of engines
and cars within said city, except that the council of said city shall not
interfere with the speed of trains and engines beyond the corporation lines of
the town of Parsons as heretofore existing, until the said new territory shall
be laid out in lots, streets and alleys, and open and used by the public; to
organize one or more fire companies and provide necessary apparatus, tools,
implements, engines, or any of them, for their use, and in their discretion to
organize a paid fire department to make regulations with respect to the
erection and location of the telephone, telegraph, electric light or other
poles within said city, and the extension of any wires, lines and poles by any
individual or corporation; to grant and regulate all franchises in, upon, over
and under the streets, alleys and public ways of said city, under such
restrictions as shall be provided by ordinance, but no exclusive franchise
shall be granted by said council to any individual or corporation, nor shall
any franchise be granted for a longer period than fifty years; to create by
ordinance such committees or boards and delegate such authority thereto, as may
be deemed necessary or advisable; to provide for the annual assessment of the
taxable property therein, including dogs kept in said city, and to provide a
revenue for the said city for municipal purposes, and to appropriate such
revenue to its expenses, and generally to take such measures, as may be deemed
necessary or advisable, to protect the property, public and private, within the
city; to preserve and maintain peace, quiet and good order therein, and to
preserve and promote the health, safety, comfort and well being of the
inhabitants thereof.
   The council of said city shall have power and authority to control and
regulate the construction and repairs of all houses and other buildings within
the said city; to provide for the granting of building permits; to cause the
removal of unsafe walls of buildings; and may upon the petition of the persons
owning the greater amount of frontage of the lots abutting on any street
between any two cross streets or in any square in said city, prohibit the
erection on such street, or in such square, of any building, or of any addition
to any building, more than ten feet high, unless the outer walls thereof be
made of brick and mortar or other fireproof material; and to provide for the
removal of any building or an addition which shall have been erected contrary
to such prohibition, at the expense of the owner or owners thereof.
§ 19 ENFORCEMENT OF POWERS.
   To carry into effect these enumerated powers and all others by this act or
by general laws conferred, or which may hereafter be conferred upon the said
city or its council, or any of its officers, the said council shall have and
possess full authority to make, pass and adopt all needful ordinances, bylaws,
orders and resolutions, not repugnant to the constitution and laws of the
United States or of this state; and to enforce any and all such ordinances,
bylaws, orders or resolutions, by prescribing for a violation thereof, fines
and penalties and imprisonment in either the county jail of Tucker County or
the city prison, if there by one but no fine shall exceed five hundred dollars,
and no term for imprisonment shall exceed thirty days; such fines and penalties
shall be imposed and recovered, and such imprisonment inflicted and enforced by
and under the judgment of the mayor of said city, or in case of his absence or
inability to act or both of said officers, of one of the councilmen, appointed
for that purpose by the council.
§ 20 ANNUAL ESTIMATE OF EXPENDITURES.
   The council shall cause to be annually made up and entered upon its journal
not later than the first day of July of each year, an accurate estimate of all
sums that are or may become chargeable to such city, and which ought to be paid
within one year; and it shall order a levy of so much as may in its opinion, be
necessary to pay the same.
§ 21 ANNUAL LEVY.
   The levy so ordered shall be upon all dogs in the said city, and upon all
real and personal property therein subject to state taxes upon the basis of the
valuation of such property as fixed for state purposes; but no taxes so levied
upon property shall exceed the rate of fifty cents on every one hundred dollars
of the valuation thereof in any one year for current prescribed by law.
§ 22 MONEY; HOW AND WHEN PAID.
   All taxes which the council are or shall be authorized to levy and collect,
and all fines and penalties which may be imposed and collected for violations
of the laws and ordinances of said city, shall inure to the exclusive benefit
of said city, and all monies received or collected for the use of said city
shall be paid into the treasury and shall be drawn therefrom, except as the
council, in accordance with this act, may order, by orders drawn upon the city
treasury, signed by the mayor and countersigned by the recorder, and no order
shall be issued upon any fund unless there is an unexpended balance to the
credit thereof sufficient to cover such order and money in the treasury to pay
it. The council shall, once at least every year cause to be published in the
said city, a statement of the receipts and disbursements of the said city for
the past year for each of the several funds, signed and sworn to by the
recorder and attested by the mayor.
§ 23 REVOKING LICENSES.
   The council may revoke any such license for a breach of any of the
conditions of such bond, or for other good cause shown, but the person holding
license must first have reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing and
adjudicating the matter, as well as the cause alleged; and shall be entitled to
be heard in person or by the council, in opposition to such revocation.
§ 24 OTHER LICENSES.
   When anything for which a state license is required other than the sale of
spirituous, vinous and malt liquors is to be done within such city, the council
may require a city license therefor, in the manner prescribed by law, and may
impose a tax thereon for the use of the city. And the council may make and
enforce all reasonable ordinances respecting the same; provided only that such
ordinances shall not conflict with the constitution and laws of this state and
of the United States.
§ 25 SIDEWALKS, STREET PAVING, ETC .
   If the owner or occupant of the real property abutting on any sidewalk,
footway or gutter in such city, shall fail or refuse to curb, or keep the same
clean in the manner or within the time required by council it shall be the duty
of the council to cause the same to be done at the expense of the city, and to
assess the amount of such expense on such property, or upon the owner thereof,
and the same may be collected by the collector in the manner provided herein
for the collection of city taxes.
   Upon the petition in writing, of the persons owning the greater amount of
frontage of the lots abutting on any street, or between a cross street and
alley, or any two cross streets, the council of the city by lawful majority
thereof, may order such part of any street or alley to be paved between
sidewalks with cobble stones, brick, Belgin blacks, asphaltic, or other
suitable material, from one of such cross streets or alleys to the other, under
such regulations as may be fixed by ordinance duly passed by council; two-
thirds of the cost of such paving shall be assessed to the owners of the lots
or fractional parts of lots abutting on that part of the street or alley so
paved, in proportion to the distance such lots or part lots about on such
street or alley, and the remaining one-third of the cost of such paving shall
be paid by the city. In making such assessments the basis shall be the cost of
paving that part of the street or alley on which the property lies, included
between the adjoining cross streets or alleys; and the amount assessed against
the owners of each lot fractional part of a lot, shall be in the proportion
which the frontage of such lot or part of lot bears to the whole cost of paving
said street or alley between said cross streets or alleys as aforesaid, and the
same may be collected by the collector in the manner provided herein for the
collection of city taxes.
§ 26 LIENS FOR TAXES, ASSESSMENTS, ETC.
   There shall be a lien on all real estate and personal property within the
city for the city taxes assessed thereon, from the date fixed by law for the
commencement of the assessment of such taxes in each year, and the interest
upon such taxes, at the rate of six percent per annum from the first day of
January next year after such assessment until payment, which may be enforced by
the council in the manner now provided by law for the enforcement of the lien
for the state or county taxes, or in such other manner as the council may by
ordinance prescribe. There shall also be a lien on all real estate within the
city for other assessments, fines and penalties assessed or imposed upon the
owners thereof by the authorities of the city from the time the same are so
assessed or imposed, which shall have priority over all other liens except the
lien for taxes and may be enforced by the council by suit in equity, in the
corporate name of the city, in the same manner as prescribed by law for the
enforcement of the lien for state and county taxes, or in such manner as the
council may by ordinance prescribe. If any real estate within the city be
returned delinquent for the nonpayment of the taxes thereon, a copy of such
delinquent list may be certified by the council to the auditor, and the same
may be said for taxes, interest and commissions thereon, in the same manner, at
the same time, and by the same officer as real estate is sold for the
nonpayment of state taxes.
§ 27 THE CITY COLLECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the city collector to collect the city taxes, fines,
levies and assessments, under such regulations as may be prescribed by law and
the ordinances of the city; and in case the same are not paid within one month
after they are placed in his hands for collection, he may distrain and sell
therefore in like manner as the officer collecting the state taxes may distrain
therefore, and he shall have in all other respects the same powers to enforce
the payment and collection thereof; his compensation shall not exceed five
percent of the amount duly collected and accounted for, he shall account for
pay over all taxes, fines, levies and assessments in accordance with the
ordinance prescribed by council. In case the collector shall fail to collect,
account for and pay over all monies with which he may be chargeable, belonging
to the city, according to the conditions of his bond and ordinances of the
council, the city shall have the right in its corporate name to recover the
same by action or motion in the circuit court of Tucker County, or where the
sum does not exceed his jurisdiction, before a justice of the peace against the
collector and his sureties or any of them, or his of their personal
representatives, upon giving ten days notice of any such motion. The collector
shall on the last day of each month, file with the recorder a sworn, itemized
statement, showing his total collections and disbursements for said month; and
he shall annually on or immediately before the first day of July, make such
settlement with the council as the general laws of this state provide for
sheriff’s settlements with the county court.
§ 28 THE CITY ASSESSOR.
   It shall be the duty of the assessor to make an assessment of the property
within the city subject to taxation, substantially in the manner and form in
which assessments are made by the assessor of the county, and return the same
to the council on or before the first day of June of each year; and for this
purpose he shall have access to all public books and records of Tucker County,
and to all documents and papers in the hands of the county assessor relating to
assessments for state and county purposes, between the first day of April and
the first day of June of each year, without expense to the city, and shall have
all the powers conferred by law on the county assessors. In case the assessor
of the city shall discover any property subject to taxation which has not bean
listed by the county assessor, or assistant it shall be his duty to list the
same, and make a report of the fact, with a description of the property and its
owner, to the county assessor or assistant tax commissioner; and it shall be
the duty of the county or assistant tax commissioner, to list the same for the
state and county purposes, and to make a proper valuation of the same, and
report its valuation to the assessor of the city. The assessor of the city
shall list the dogs in the city, with the names of the owners thereof, and
return the list to the council. The council shall have the power to make and
enforce regulations respecting the listing and taxation of dogs in the city,
and provide for the impounding and killing such as appear to have no owner, or
upon which the tax has not been paid. And it shall have power to make and
enforce all needful ordinances respecting the assessment of property.
§ 29 EXEMPTION FROM DISTRICT POOR AND ROAD LEVIES.
   The city shall maintain its own roads and streets; and by reason thereof
shall not be required to pay any district road taxes for the construction and
maintenance of roads outside of the city limits.
§ 30 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the council, he shall
recommend such measures as he may deem needful for the welfare of the city. The
expense of maintaining any person committed to the jail of the county by him,
except that it be to answer an indictment or under the provisions of section
two hundred and twenty-eight of chapter fifty of the amended code of this
state, shall be paid by the city. But the mayor shall not receive any money
belonging to the state or individuals, unless he shall give the bond and
security required of a justice of the peace by chapter fifty of the said code,
and all provisions of said chapter relating to money received by justices shall
apply as to like moneys received by the mayor. The mayor shall have power, when
authorized by a proper ordinance of the city, in case of an offender upon whom
a fine has been imposed and who neglects or refuses to pay the same, to
sentence such offender to work out the amount of the fine imposed, together
with the costs of the maintenance of such offender from day to day, by
compelling him to labor without compensation upon any of the public works or
improvements undertaken by the city; he shall receive such computation per day,
to be fixed by the council, as is allowed laborers regularly, until such fines,
costs, and costs of maintenance shall have been fully paid; provided, that no
person shall be compelled to labor as aforesaid for more than thirty days for
any one offense.
   Appeals shall lie from the judgment of the mayor to the circuit court of
Tucker County, under regulations prescribed by law.
§ 31 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE RECORDER.
   It shall be the duty of the recorder to keep the journal of the proceedings
of the council, to have charge and preserve all records and archives of the
city, and to perform such duties pertaining to his office as the council shall
prescribe. In the absence of the mayor from the city, or in case of his
sickness or disability to act, or during any vacancy in the office of mayor,
the recorder shall perform the duties belonging to the office of mayor and for
that purpose shall have and possess all the powers of the mayor.
§ 32 DUTIES OF THE CITY ATTORNEY.
   The city attorney shall be the city solicitor and council in all legal
matters arising upon which legal proceedings are taken; he shall defend all
suits against the city, and when requested in writing, shall give his written
opinion to the mayor, the council, or any standing committee thereof, upon such
legal questions as may be referred to him affecting the city’s interests. When
required by the mayor he shall attend and prosecute all trials in his court,
and shall prosecute all appeals that are taken from such court to the circuit
shall receive such sum as the council may allow.
§ 33 DUTIES OF CITY TREASURER.
   The city treasury shall be one or more of the banks of the city, and shall
be selected biannually by the council. The bank or banks which shall be
designated city treasury shall be first chosen at the first regular meeting of
the council held in February, one thousand nine hundred and eight, and
thereafter on the same day each second year. The money deposited therein shall
be disbursed only upon order drawn against the same signed and countersigned as
hereinbefore prescribed. The treasurer shall on the last day of each month,
furnish council a statement showing the amount on hand; and it shall annually,
on or immediately before the first day of July, make settlement with the
council as the general laws of this state prescribe for sheriff’s settlements
with the county court.
§ 34 LIQUOR LICENSE.
   That said city council shall have, and are hereby granted the exclusive
control of all licenses required by law; provided, however, that the council
shall cause to be submitted to the voters at the city at the annual election
every two years the question whether a license for the sale of spiritous
liquors, vinous and malt liquors, shall be granted within the city. In case a
majority of votes at said election are against licenses no such license shall
be granted the two succeeding; and all such other licenses it may see fit to
impose and require within the corporate limits of said city not contrary to the
constitution of the state of West Virginia. And in any case of any such license
granted by said council it shall not be necessary for the person or persons, or
corporation holding the same to apply for, obtain or hold any state license or
other additional license from the county court of Tucker County, West Virginia,
for the carrying on or conducting the business so licensed by said city council
shall not be exempt from paying the usual state license tax required by law.
When any such license as hereinbefore mentioned by said council, said council
may impose a tax thereon for the use of the city in conformity with the
requirements of the state law, and shall also require bond payable to said city
in its corporate name, with good security from the person or persons, or
corporations so licensed; said bond to be approved by said city council in the
same sum and penalty as required by the state law. The said city council shall,
upon granting any such license required by law, within ten days thereafter
furnish to the county court, the prosecuting attorney, and the assessor of
Tucker County, by mail to their respective post office addresses, duly
certified copies, under the corporate seal of said city, of the order granting
every such license, whereupon such assessor shall cause the sheriff of Tucker
County to collect the state tax thereon, in the same manner as if said license
was granted by the county court of Tucker County, West Virginia; and said city
council may revoke such license at any time, the condition of said bond be
broken upon ten days previous notice to the person, persons, or corporation
holding the same; and suits may be prosecuted and maintained on such hands as
prescribed in section twenty-two of chapter thirty-two of the code of West
Virginia by the same persons in the same manner and to the same extent as upon
the bonds mentioned in said section, and all the provisions of said section in
relation to the bonds mentioned in said section, and all the provisions of said
section in relation to the bonds therein named and mentioned shall be
applicable to the bonds required by this section.
   Notice for the application for license to sell spiritous liquors, wine,
porter ale, beer, and drinks of like nature, shall be given by published in the
city, for at least two weeks prior to the date said application is made, and
notice of said application shall likewise be filed with the recorder of the
city at least two weeks before the application is acted upon; which notice and
application shall show the name and residence of the applicant, the particular
place for which the license is desired, and who is the owner of the property in
which the business is to be carried on.
§ 35 THE POLICE OFFICERS.
   The chief of police shall be ex-officio a constable within the corporate
limits of his city; he may execute any writ or process issued by the mayor or
justice of the peace at any place in Tucker County; he shall have all the
powers, rights and privileges within the corporate limits of the city in regard
to the arrest of persons, the collection of claims, and the execution and
return of process that can be legally exercised by a constable of the district
in which the said city is situated, and his sureties shall be liable to all
fines, penalties and forfeitures that a constable is liable to for any failure
or dereliction in his office, to be recovered in the same manner and in the
same courts that the fines, penalties and forfeitures may be recovered against
such constable. All special officers shall have and possess all the powers,
rights and privileges of a constable of the district within the corporate
limits of the city, in regard to the arrest of persons, and the execution and
return of all criminal writs and process issued by the mayor; but the council
may exempt them from giving the bond required of constables.
§ 36 RIGHT TO CONDEMN REAL ESTATE.
   The council shall have the right to institute proceedings in the name of the
city for the condemnation of real estate for the use of roads, streets, alleys,
drains, public buildings and grounds, including parks and cemeteries, for the
use of the city; and the manner of procedure shall as nearly as practicable,
conform to the provisions of chapter forty-two of the code.
§ 37 REPEAL OF CERTAIN ACTS.
   All acts and parts of acts which are in conflict and inconsistent with this
act are hereby declared inoperative in so far as they are in conflict with this
act; and this act shall not be construed to take away any of the powers
conferred upon said town, or upon the council, or any officer thereof conferred
by general law, except so far as the same may be inconsistent with the powers
conferred by this act.
§ 38 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF THE CITY.
   The said city shall succeed to all the rights and liabilities of the said
town of Parsons; it shall be liable for all the debts and obligations of the
said town the same as if the bond or other evidence of indebtedness were issued
in the corporate name of the city.
§ 39 ORDINANCES.
   The ordinances in force in the town of Parsons on the first day of February,
one thousand nine hundred and eight, so far as they are not inconsistent with
this charter, shall continue in force as ordinances of the city of Parsons
until amended or repealed by the council of said city.
Note: Many of the provisions of the foregoing charter have been amended or
repealed by the Acts of Legislature of West Virginia, which appear in chapter 8
of the Code of West Virginia 1955 and the 1957 Cumulative Supplement to the
Code of West Virginia of 1955. See the provisions of Chapter 8 for such changes
and the annotations to said Code, which are listed after each section in the
foregoing charter.
RESOLUTION NO. I
IN THE COUNTY COURT OF TUCKER COUNTY, WEST VIRGINIA
RE: MINOR BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT TO THE TOWN OF PARSONS BEING 6 ACRES, MORE OR
LESS, OF LAND ADJACENT TO THE PRESENT CORPORATE LIMITS
THE PETITION OF THE TOWN OF PARSONS TO HAVE A MINOR BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT OF
ACRES OF LAND ADJACENT TO THE PRESENT CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE TOWN OF PARSONS
SITUATE, LYING AND BEING IN BLACK FORK DISTRICT, TUCKER COUNTY, WEST VIRGINIA
TO THE COUNTY COURT OF TUCKER COUNTY, WEST VIRGINIA
Your, petitioners, respectfully represent unto Your Honors as follows:
I.
   The Town of Parsons is a municipal corporation situate, lying and being in
Tucker County, West Virginia.
II.
   The Mayor and Council of the Town of Parsons is the governing body of the
said municipal corporation.
III.
   In accordance with Chapter 8, Article 6, Section 5 of the Code of West
Virginia, as mended, the Mayor and the Council, as the governing body of the
Town of Parsons, your petitioners, hereby make application for a minor boundary
adjustment in the boundary lines of said Town of Parsons.
IV.
   There is attached hereto a map entitled.
   “MINOR BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT TO THE TOWN OF PARSONS, W. VA.”
   CHECKED BY:      APPROVED BY:
   Which said map shows the area herein sought to be annexed to the Town of
Parsons and showing metes and bounds of said area is marked for identification
of Petitioners’ Exhibit “A”.   
   The land sought to be annexed is in Black Fork District, Tucker County, West
Virginia.
   The entire tract of land is described in metes and bounds as follows:
   This property herein described consists of 6 acres, more or less, and is
located in Black Fork District, Tucker County, West Virginia, and more
particularly described as follows:
   Beginning at a point in the Parsons Corporation limits, thence in a
northeasterly direction in the corporation limits, ten (10) feet to the western
right of way (R.O.W.) limits (30 feet) of WV Route 41; thence with the meandors
of said western R.O.W. limits of WV Route 41 approximately 916 feet, more or
less, to a roof bolt (set in concrete), said roof bolt having a reference
bearing of N 8° 21' 26" E 742.90 feet to the Point of Beginning (P.O.B.);
thence continuing with the meandors of said western R.O.W. limits of WV Route
41 approximately 35 feet, more or less, to a point at the center of the right
hand fork of Sawmill Run, said point being a corner with the 0.33 acre parcel
of Amos W. Hardy and having a reference being of N 5° 56' 17" E 34.11 feet to
the aforementioned roof bolt (set in concrete); thence with the lands of Hardy
and Larry A. Mayfield, i.e. Sawmill Run, ten (10) lines N 47° 34' 36" W 184.27
feet to a point in said run; thence N 40° 34' 15" W 222.90 feet to a point in
said run at the intersection of the two main forks of said run; thence N 80°
04' 41" W 131.41 feet to a point in said run; thence N 86° 37' 52" W 81.38 feet
to a point in said run; thence 77° 46' 56" W 55.49 feet to a point in said run;
thence along the present corporation limits of the Town of Parsons to the place
of beginning.
   The aforesaid parcel contains 6 acres, more or less, and is shown on a plat
of survey dated April 22, 1986 by Triad Engineering Consultants, Inc., which is
attached hereto as a part of this description.
VI.
   Your petitioners are informed and believe and state that no person resides
within the above described territory and the said territory sought to be
incorporate in this proceeding comprises 6 acres, more or less.
   Your petitioners know of no one who is interested who will be adversely
affected by said annexation.
VII.
   The change in the boundary of the Town of Parsons described above by metes
and bounds for which application is made is a minor boundary adjustment.
P R A Y E R
   Your petitioners therefor pray that an order may be entered filing this
petition and directing publication and posting of notices that annexation of
the above described areas has been proposed in accordance with Chapter 8,
Article 6, Section 5 of the Code of West Virginia, as amended, and that this
Court set a time for hearing on the question of annexation, and that this Court
may enter an order changing and extending the territorial boundary limits of
the Town of Parsons so as to include and embrace the area described in this
petition, and as shown and set forth upon the map filed herewith and marked
Petitioners’ Exhibit “A”, and this Court grant such other and further relief as
may seem meet. And as in duty bound, will ever pray.
TOWN OF PARSONS,
a municipal corporation
PART I: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
3.   LEGISLATURE
      
5.   ADMINISTRATIVE
      
7.   JUDICIAL
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article
   
101. Codified Ordinances
   
103. Elections
   
105. City Government Ethics
   
106. Conveyance of Surplus Property
ARTICLE 101: CODIFIED ORDINANCES
Section
   
101.01   Designation; citation; headings
   
101.02   General definitions
   
101.03   Rules of construction
   
101.04   Repeal of repealing act; effect of repeal
   
101.05   Construction of section references
   
101.06   Acts by agent or deputy
   
101.07   Conflicting provisions
   
101.08   Separability
   
101.09   City Seal
 
   
101.99   General penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to impose penalties, see W. Va. Code 8-11-1, 8-12-2(11)
   Codification of ordinances, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b)
   Maximum penalty permitted, see W. Va. Code 8-11-1, 8-12-5(57)
§ 101.01 DESIGNATION; CITATION; HEADINGS.
   (a)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, recodified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, chapters, articles, and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Codified Ordinances of Parsons, West Virginia, 2020”, for which designation
“codified ordinances” may be substituted. Code, chapter, article, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the codified
ordinances.
   (b)   All references to codes, chapters, articles, and sections are to such
components of the codified ordinances unless otherwise specified. Any component
code may be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”.
Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the
number, such as “§
101.01”.
§ 101.02 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Parsons, West Virginia.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Tucker County, West Virginia.
   LAND OR LANDS and REAL ESTATE OR REAL PROPERTY. Include lands, tenements,
and hereditaments, and all rights thereto and interests therein except chattel
interests.
   LAWS OF THE STATE. Includes the Constitution of the State and the
Constitution of the United States, and treaties and laws made in pursuance
thereof.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   MUNICIPALITY or CITY. The City of Parsons, West Virginia.
   OFFENSE. Includes every act or omission for which a fine, forfeiture, or
punishment is imposed by law.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON or WHOEVER. Includes corporations, societies, associations, and
partnerships.
   PERSONAL ESTATE or PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes goods, chattels, real and
personal, money, credits, investments, and the evidences thereof.
   PRECEDING, SUCCEEDING, OR FOLLOWING. Used in reference to any section or
sections of an article means next preceding, next succeeding, or next following
that in which such reference is made.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and building.
   PROPERTY or ESTATE. Embraces both real and personal estate.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   STATE. The State of West Virginia or any department, division, commission,
board, or educational or other institution of the state.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises alone or with others.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters, or
figures, whether by printing, engraving, writing, or otherwise. But when the
signature of any person is required, it must be in his or her own proper
handwriting, or his or her mark, attested, proved, or acknowledged.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
§ 101.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   (b)   Gender and plural. A word importing the singular number only may be
applied to several persons or things, as well as to one person or thing; a word
importing the plural number only may be applied to one person or thing as well
as to several; and a word importing the masculine gender only may be applied to
females as well as males.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   (c)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, or if the last
be a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday it shall also be excluded.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-3)
   (d)   Joint authority. Words purporting to give a joint authority to three
or more persons confer such authority upon a majority of them, and not upon any
less number.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-10)
   (e)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the subject
matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 101.04 REPEAL OF REPEALING ACT; EFFECT OF REPEAL.
   (a)   When a law which has repealed another is itself repealed, the former
law shall not be revived without express words for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-9)
   (b)   The repeal of a law, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any offense committed, or penalty or
punishment incurred, before the repeal took effect or the law expired, save
only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform as far as practicable to the
laws in force at the time such proceedings take place, unless otherwise
specially provided; and that if any penalty or punishment be mitigated by the
new law, such new law may, with the consent of the part affected thereby, be
applied to any judgment pronounced after it has taken effect.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-8)
   (c)   The repeal by any provision of the codified ordinances of an ordinance
validating previous acts, contracts, or transactions shall not affect the
validity of such acts, contracts, or transactions, but the same shall remain as
valid as if there had been no such repeal, but no further.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-11)
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (a)   When reference is made to any section or group of sections of the
codified ordinances, such reference shall extend to and include any amendment
of or supplement to the section or group of sections so referred to or any
section or sections hereafter enacted in lieu thereof; and unless otherwise
provided, whenever a reference to a section or group of sections is made in any
amendment or supplement to any section of the codified ordinances hereafter
enacted, such reference shall be deemed to refer to the section or sections as
the same shall then stand or as thereafter amended.
   (b)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in such
reference.
   (c)   References in the codified ordinances to action taken or authorized
under designated sections of the codified ordinances include, in every case,
action taken or authorized under the applicable legislative provision which is
superseded by the codified ordinances.
   (d)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters in the series are deemed to be included.
§ 101.06 ACTS BY AGENT OR DEPUTY.
   When a section requires that an act be done by an officer or person, it
shall be sufficient if it be done by his or her agent or deputy, unless it be
such as cannot lawfully be done by deputation.
(W. Va. Code 2-2-5)
§ 101.07 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, articles, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 101.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Each section of the codified ordinances and every part of each section is an
independent section and part of a section, and the holding of any section or a
part thereof to be unconstitutional, void, or ineffective for any cause does
not affect the validity or constitutionality of any other section or part
thereof.
§ 101.09 CITY SEAL.
   The official seal of the City of Parsons has a roped outside border with the
words “City of Parsons, West Virginia” in the top arch of the seal; there is
one black star on each side of the seal with the date of “February 18, 1907”
between them on the bottom arch of the seal; a picture of the Tucker County
Courthouse is located in the center of the seal.
§ 101.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where in this Code or in any ordinance or resolution of the City Council, or
in any rule, regulation, notice, or order promulgated by any officer or agency
of the city under authority duly vested in him or her or it, any act is
prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor or the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or any offense or a misdemeanor, and no specific penalty is provided
for the violation thereof, the violation of any such provision of this Code or
of any such ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice, or order shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000. Each day any violation of this Code or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, notice, or order shall continue
shall constitute, except where otherwise provided, a separate offense.
ARTICLE 103: ELECTIONS
Section
   
103.01   Permanent registration of voters
   
103.02   Establishment of voting precincts
   
103.03   Special elections
   
103.04   Order of candidates on the ballot
   
103.05   Mode of voting; law governing
   
103.06   Notice of election of city officers
   
103.07   Precinct election officials
   
103.08   Filing for election
   
103.09   Election of Mayor and Recorder
   
103.10   Election of Council members
   
103.11   Canvass
Cross-references:
   Corporate powers, see
Chtr. § 4
   Determination of contested election, see
Chtr. § 10
   Determination of tie, see
Chtr. § 10
   Oaths of office, see
Chtr. § 11
   Vacancy of office, see
Chtr. § 8
Statutory references:
   Application of state election law to municipal elections, see W. Va. Code 8-
5-6
   Qualification and election of the Mayor, Recorder, and City Council, see W.
Va. Code 8-5-7
§ 103.01 PERMANENT REGISTRATION OF VOTERS.
   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-5-13, the conduct of all city elections shall be
integrated with the system of “permanent registration of voters” as set out in
W. Va. Code Ch. 3, Art. 2, the provisions of which, insofar as they are
applicable to this city, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (a)   For the purpose of all municipal elections of the city, the City
Council shall divide the city into election precincts, shall number the
precincts, shall number and establish the boundaries thereof, and shall
designate one voting place in each precinct, which place shall be established
as nearly as possible at the point most convenient for the voters of the
precinct. The city shall have at least one voting precinct and each precinct
shall have but one voting place therein.
   (b)   The city shall keep available at all times during business hours in
City Hall at a place convenient for public inspection a map or maps of the city
with current boundaries of all precincts.
   (c)   The City Council shall provide for making the precincts coincide, as
nearly as possible, to the boundaries of the voting precincts fixed by the
County Commission for all state and county elections.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, order a special election at any time to
determine answers to questions to be submitted or for the election of a new
Council by the qualified electors of the city. Any special election of the
Council shall be held as nearly as is practicable according to the provisions
for a regular election.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.04 ORDER OF CANDIDATES ON THE BALLOT.
   Except for offices where no more than one candidate has filed or no more
than one candidate has been nominated the arrangement of names for all offices
on election ballots shall be determined by lot according to the following
provisions:
   (a)   At 4:00 p.m. on Tuesday following the close of candidates filing for
offices, a drawing by lot shall be conducted for ballot positions on the
election ballot in the city office. Notice of the drawing shall be given on the
Statement of Candidate and no further notice shall be required.
   (b)   Should the day for the drawing of lots prescribed herein fall on a
Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the drawing shall be held on the next regular
business day in the city office.
   (c)   The position of each candidate within each office division shall be
determined by the position drawn for that candidate individually. Provided,
that if fewer candidates file for an office division than the total number to
be elected the vacant positions shall appear following the names of all
candidates filed for that office.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.05 MODE OF VOTING; LAW GOVERNING.
   (a)   The mode of voting shall be by ballot, but the voter shall be left
free to vote an open or sealed ballot as he or she may elect. The elections in
said city shall be held and conducted, and the result thereof determined, as
fixed by the laws of this state, relating to general elections, as they exist
at the time any such election is being held, except that the persons conducting
said elections shall, on the day that the election is held, deliver the ballots
to the Recorder, and thereafter the Common Council of said city shall meet on
the sixth day succeeding said election and canvass the return thereof, and
declare the result thereof, and in all respects comply with the requirements of
the Council and the statute relating to general elections as they are in force
at the time of holding such election. The corporate authorities of said city
shall perform all the duties in relation to such elections required by general
law of county courts and officers in the general election laws of this state,
and the provisions of the Code of West Virginia, in effect at the date of such
election, concerning elections by the people, shall govern such election laws
shall have the same force and effect as if they were specially enacted for
corporate elections.
   (b)   All of the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 2, Art. 3-3 relating to
voting by absentees, are hereby to the same extent as if such article were set
out in full and embodied in this section. This shall be the city’s preferred
method of early voting.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.06 NOTICE OF ELECTION OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Recorder shall cause to be published by the first Tuesday of March prior
to each election of city officers, in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city, a “Notice of Election”, in the following form:
      “There will be an election held in the City of Parsons, Tucker County,
West Virginia, on the second Tuesday in June, 20__ , for the purpose of
electing a Mayor, a Recorder, and six Council members.”
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.07 PRECINCT ELECTION OFFICIALS.
   The Recorder shall have the authority to appoint, subject to the approval of
the City Council, a single election board or a double election board, one to
receive and one to count, in each precinct in the city. For each election board
the Recorder shall appoint, subject to the approval of the City Council, two
commissioners and two clerks to serve as election officials in each precinct of
the city. If the election is conducted by two election boards, both the
reviewing and the counting boards shall conclude the counting of the votes
cast, the tabulating and the summarizing of the number of votes cast, unite in
certifying and attesting to the returns of the election. The election officials
shall, as soon as possible after closing of the polls on election day, deliver
to the Recorder or appointed representative the ballots, tally sheets,
certificates of the results of the election, registration records, ballot
boxes, and other election supplies.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.08 FILING FOR ELECTION.
   The filing period shall be from 8:00 a.m. on the first Monday in April
through 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on the following Friday. Any filing forms
postmarked by midnight on that Friday shall be accepted and considered timely
filed.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.09 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND RECORDER.
   On the second Tuesday in June and every two years thereafter there shall be
elected by the qualified voters of said city a Recorder. The Recorder shall
hold their office for a term of two years for the next election (2022), and
will start serving four-year terms in elections thereafter (2024), commencing
on the first day of July and until their successors have been elected and
qualified.
   The Mayor will hold their office for a term of four years starting in the
next election (2022) and thereafter, commencing on the first day of the month
succeeding election and until their successors have been elected and qualified.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
§ 103.10 ELECTION OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   On the same day mentioned in the preceding section, one member of the Common
Council shall be elected in each ward of the city, who shall reside in the ward
from which he or she was elected, and shall hold his or her office for the term
of two years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. On the
same day mentioned in the preceding section, one member of the Common Council
shall be elected in each ward of the said city, who shall reside in the ward
from which he or she is elected, and shall hold his or her office for a period
of four years from the first day of the month next succeeding his or her
election, or until his or her successor is elected and qualified; on the same
day of every second year thereafter, one member of the Council shall be elected
in each ward, whose term of office shall begin on the first day of the month
succeeding election and continue for the term of four years, and until his or
her successor is elected and qualified; but if any member of the Council moves
from the ward in which he or she was elected, his or her office shall thereby
become vacant, and the Council shall fill such vacancy by appointment, until
the next general election, when some qualified person residing in the ward
shall be elected. Each ward shall constitute an election precinct and the
Council of the city, in office at the time of the passage of this act, shall
establish a voting place in each ward, at which the first election above
provided for shall be held and unless such new places be established, the
election shall be held at several places now established therefor. No voter
shall be allowed to vote in any city election except in the ward in which he or
she resides.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy of office, see
Chtr. § 8
§ 103.11 CANVASS.
   The City Council shall be ex officio a board of canvassers and, as such,
shall keep a complete record of all their proceedings and ascertaining and
declaring the results of every election in the city. They shall convene as such
canvassing board at City Hall on the fifth day (Sundays excepted) after every
election held in the city and declare the results from such election.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
ARTICLE 105: CITY GOVERNMENT ETHICS
Section
   
105.01   Purpose
   
105.02   Adoption
   
105.03   Exemptions
   
105.04   Amendment
Cross-references:
   Conflict of interest, see W. Va. Code 8-5-19
   Government Ethics Act, see W. Va. Code Ch. 6B
§ 105.01 PURPOSE.
   Council hereby finds that the purposes of the state’s Governmental Ethics
Act have reasonable, necessary, and appropriate application to matters
involving all elected and appointed municipal officials and employees, whether
full- or part-time, who derive a salary, payment of wages, or other direct
remuneration from the city, and does now hereby affirm, ratify, and adopt said
state-defined purposes as being the same purposes of this municipal government
ethics ordinance, without specifically republishing said state purposes herein.
§ 105.02 ADOPTION.
   Council further finds that for the purpose of assisting in the
administration of the provisions of this article, that various statutory
sections of the aforesaid state act shall be hereby expressly adopted and
incorporated as provisions of this article, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, and which said state statutory sections specifically hereby
adopted and incorporated herein are as follows: §§ 6B-1-1 through 5 and 6B-2-5.
§ 105.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the affirmation and adoption of the purposes of the state
Act and further the specific adoption of the selected statutory sections which
were immediately hereinbefore set forth in §
105.02, the Council specifically finds that certain statutory provisions of the
aforesaid state Act are either inapplicable to the administration of this
article or would otherwise be unduly burdensome for the city to require and
administer, and specifically, the Council finds that the purposes of the state
Act and of this article can be effectively executed at the municipal level
without the specific adoption and incorporation of the statutory provisions of
W. Va. Code Ch. 6B, Art. 2, §§ 6 and 7 respecting financial disclosure, and W.
Va. Code Ch. 6B, Art. 3 regarding the regulation and registration of lobbyists,
and which said statutory provisions the Council hereby expressly opts not to
include as provisions of this article, and affirmatively elects that such
provisions shall not apply to this city and its officers and employees.
§ 105.04 AMENDMENT.
   Any amendment to any of the aforesaid statutory provisions of the State of
West Virginia which are expressly herein adopted and incorporated as provisions
of this article shall, upon enactment by the State Legislature, pursuant to the
state prescribed effective date thereof, be deemed to be an amendment to this
article unless the city expressly opts not to adopt any such amendment by
ordinance duly adopted by the Council evidencing the non-adoption of such
amendments.
ARTICLE 106: CONVEYANCE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY
Section
   
106.01   Purpose and applicability
   
106.02   Surplus property defined
   
106.03   Conveyance of surplus property
§ 106.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the efficient and cost
effective disposition of the city’s surplus property without the time and
expense of advertising and public auction required by W. Va. Code 8-12-18(b).
   (b)   This section shall be applicable to the sale of “surplus property”, as
defined in §
106.02 below.
   (c)   This section shall be in addition to those methods and processes
otherwise contained in the West Virginia Code and shall be applied at the
discretion of the city.
§ 106.02 SURPLUS PROPERTY DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this article, SURPLUS PROPERTY is defined as property,
excluding real property, now owned or in the future acquired by the city that
has become obsolete or unusable or is not being used or should be replaced, as
determined by the City Council.
§ 106.03 CONVEYANCE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (a)   The city may sell its surplus property for fair and adequate
consideration, without adherence to the procedures set forth in W. Va. Code §
8-12-18(b) if the sale is made as follows:
      (1)   The property may be advertised and sold via an online auction site
which has been approved by the City Council for such purposes; or
      (2)   The property may be sold via a request for sealed bids upon such
terms and conditions as determined by the City Council, provided, that prior to
making any sale via sealed bids, the terms and conditions along with a brief
description of the property to be sold shall be published as a Class II legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code §§ 59-3-1 et
seq.
   (b)   The provisions of this article are meant to be an alternative method
for the disposition of surplus property. Nothing contained in this article
shall prohibit the city from utilizing, at the discretion of the city, the
procedures set forth in W. Va. Code § 8-12-18 for the sale, lease, or
disposition of other municipal property.
CHAPTER 3: LEGISLATURE
Article
   
115. Council
ARTICLE 115: COUNCIL
Section
   
115.01   Annual tax estimate and levy
   
115.02   Biennial organizational
   
115.03   Sergeant at arms
   
115.04   Order of business
   
115.05   Attestation; record of ordinances
   
115.06   Resolutions and record thereof
   
115.07   Decorum
   
115.08   Membership
§ 115.01 ANNUAL TAX ESTIMATE AND LEVY.
   Each year the City Council shall fix a date and hour between March 7 and
March 28, and at the time so fixed the Council shall meet in public session in
the Council Chamber at the City Building and then and there proceed with the
transaction of the business which is the subject of W. Va. Code 11-8-14. Upon
completion of that business, the session shall stand adjourned until the same
meeting hour on the next following third Tuesday in April, at which time it
shall reconvene and the Council shall proceed in conformity with the provisions
of W. Va. Code 11-8-14a.
§ 115.02 BIENNIAL ORGANIZATIONAL.
   (a)   Prior to the first regular meeting in July of each even numbered year,
the Mayor-elect, the Council member-elect, and the Recorder-elect shall meet in
special public session in the Council Chamber and shall be called to order by
the incumbent Mayor or, in his or her absence, by the incumbent Recorder or, in
the absence of both the incumbent Mayor and the incumbent Recorder, Council
Member with longest tenure or Council Member-elect, whereupon those officers-
elect who have not as yet taken the prescribed oath of office shall do so
before an officer who is authorized by law to administer oaths, at which time
they shall be deemed to have qualified for the office to which they,
respectively, have been elected; provided, that no officer who is required to
give bond shall be deemed to have qualified until such bond has been given,
except for the specific purpose of participating and voting in this particular
meeting and any adjourned session thereof.
   (b)   The City Council shall then proceed to adopt, readopt, or amend rules
governing the official conduct of its members and the transaction of its
business, and the failure to do so shall have the effect of continuing in force
the rules of the preceding Council. The Council shall then proceed to consider
and act upon other matters of an organizational nature such as filling
vacancies in appointive offices which are within the appointive authority of
the Council or of the Mayor and Council; but no such office shall be deemed
vacant when it is in fact held by an incumbent unless the office be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council.
§ 115.03 SERGEANT AT ARMS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to attend all meetings of the
City Council, or cause a competent police officer to do so, to serve as
sergeant at arms and maintain order in the Council Chamber and in the immediate
vicinity thereof; and to execute all lawful orders and process directed to him
or her by the Council or by its presiding officer.
§ 115.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (a)   At each meeting of the City Council, the roll shall be called and
members shall be recorded in the journal as present or absent. The subsequent
proceedings at any regular meeting shall then be as specified in the order
below, except as may be provided otherwise under the rules of the Council:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Call of roll;
      (3)   Approval of agenda;
      (4)   Special guests;
      (5)   Public comments;
      (6)   Reading and approval of minutes;
      (7)   Financial items;
      (8)   Employee and committee reports;
      (9)   Unfinished business;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Good of the order;
      (12)   Correspondence; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (b)   Rules and regulations on conducting City Council meetings are on file
in the City Administrator’s office.
§ 115.05 ATTESTATION; RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   Each ordinance, upon its final passage, shall be signed by the presiding
officer of the City Council and attested by the Recorder, who shall then number
it consecutively and record it in the Record of Ordinances.
§ 115.06 RESOLUTIONS AND RECORD THEREOF.
   (a)   Each resolution shall, before its introduction, be reduced to writing
and, when adopted, shall be signed by the presiding officer and attested by the
Recorder, who shall then date and number it and file it in his or her office in
a book for that purpose which shall be known as the “Record of Resolutions”.
   (b)   Resolutions and portions of resolutions which are repealed or amended
by subsequent resolutions or ordinances shall be noted and initialed in the
margin thereof by the Recorder so regarding, show the date and number of the
repealing or amendatory ordinance or resolution, but shall not be removed from
the Record of Resolutions.
§ 115.07 DECORUM.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to behave in a boisterous or
disorderly manner at any meeting of the City Council or any committee thereof,
or to cause a disturbance thereat, whether by force, shouting, or other words
or action tending to disrupt such meeting, or to fail or refuse to obey any
ruling or order of the officer presiding at such meeting relative to the
orderly procedure thereof.
   (b)   Boisterous or disorderly behavior within the purview of division (A)
above shall include, but is not limited to, any of the following acts:
      (1)   Contemptuous or insolent behavior towards the presiding officer or
any member of the City Council or committee of the Council, or its clerk,
sergeant at arms, or any other officer, while the Council or committee is in
session;
      (2)   Any breach of the peace, willful disturbance, or indecent conduct
in the presence of such Council or committee while so engaged, or so near
regarding obstruct or interrupt its proceedings;
      (3)   Violence or threats of violence to any member of such Council or
committee or any officer, witness, or party going to, attending, or returning
from, any Council or committee proceeding in respect to anything done or to be
done in the course of such proceeding; and
      (4)   Willful resistance to any lawful order of the presiding officer or
sergeant at arms at any such meeting.
   (c)   The presiding officer of the City Council or of any committee of the
City Council shall have plenary power to order that the Council Chamber and
adjacent areas be cleared, or any part thereof, or any person or persons
ejected from the Council Chamber or adjacent areas, in the event of disorderly
conduct or disturbance which does or tends to interrupt or disrupt the orderly
conduct of business by the Council or its committee.
§ 115.08 MEMBERSHIP.
   City Council shall consist of six members; two members from both wards
serving a four-year term, and one member from both wards serving a two-year
term.
CHAPTER 5: ADMINISTRATIVE
Article
   
121. Mayor
   
123. Recorder
   
125. City Treasurer
   
127. City Administrator
   
129. City Attorney
   
131. Police Department
   
133. Fire Department
   
135. Emergency Services Agency
   
139. Library Board
   
141. Historic Landmark Commission
   
145. Board of Park Commissioners
   
149. Employment Provisions
ARTICLE 121: MAYOR
Section
   
121.01   Generally
§ 121.01 GENERALLY.
   (a)   The Mayor shall not have a vote, unless to break a tie vote of the
City Council.
   (b)   The Mayor shall serve a four-year term starting in the 2022 election.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
Cross-references:
   Appointment; powers and duties, see Chtr. §§
30,
14
   Compensation, see
Chtr. § 7
   Qualifications, see
Chtr. § 11
   Vacancy, forfeiture of office and removal, see Chtr. §§
8,
13
ARTICLE 123: RECORDER
Section
   
123.01   Generally
§ 123.01 GENERALLY.
   (a)   The Recorder shall have a vote.
   (b)   The Recorder shall serve a two-year term starting in the 2022
election. The Recorder will start serving four-year terms in the 2024 election
and thereafter.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
Cross-references:
   Appointment; powers and duties, see Chtr. §§
31,
14; see Part 1, Art. 103
   Compensation, see
Chtr. § 7
   Vacancy, forfeiture of office and removal, see Chtr. §§
8,
13
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications, see Chtr. § 11; see W. Va. Code 8-5-6
ARTICLE 125: CITY TREASURER
Section
   
125.01   Generally
§ 125.01 GENERALLY.
   (a)   Treasurer cannot sign checks.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Appointment; powers and duties, see
Chtr. § 33
ARTICLE 127: CITY ADMINISTRATOR
Section
   
127.01   Generally
§ 127.01 GENERALLY.
   (a)   City Manager shall mean City Administrator. The City Administrator
shall report to City Council.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Appointment; powers and duties, see
Chtr. § 5
ARTICLE 129: CITY ATTORNEY
Section
   
129.01   Generally
§ 129.01 GENERALLY.
   (a)   The City Attorney shall be the city solicitor and council in all legal
matters arising upon which legal proceedings are taken.
(Ord. passed 2-1-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Appointment; powers and duties, see
Chtr. § 32
ARTICLE 131: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
131.01   Property, personnel, and organization generally
   
131.02   Chief of Police
   
131.03   Powers and duties of Department and members
   
131.04   Chain of command
   
131.05   Rules and regulations
   
131.06   Code Enforcement Officer
Cross-references:
   Appointment of special police, see W. Va. Code 8-10-1
   Civil service, see W. Va. Code 8-14-6 et seq.
   Hours of duty; holidays, see W. Va. Code 8-14-2, 8-14-2a
   Parking lot or building officers, see W. Va. Code 8-14-5a
   Pension and relief fund, see W. Va. Code Ch. 8-22
   Police bonds, see W. Va. Code 61-7-5
   Powers and duties, see W. Va. Code 8-14-1, 8-14-3
   School zone officers, see W. Va. Code 8-14-5
§ 131.01 PROPERTY, PERSONNEL, AND ORGANIZATION GENERALLY.
   The Police Department shall have such property and equipment, and such
personnel, holding such ranks, as may from time to time be authorized by the
City Council. The organization and deployment of the Police Department shall be
as proscribed in the rules and regulations of the Department promulgated
pursuant to this article.
§ 131.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, subject to the authority of the Mayor as specified in
W. Va. Code 8-10-1, shall be the head of the Police Department and the
commanding officer thereof. He or she shall be responsible for the
administration, training, discipline, and morale of the personnel of the
Department and for their effective and efficient employment to prevent crime,
apprehend law violators, protect persons and property, maintain law and order,
and enforce state law, this code, and other ordinances within the city.
§ 131.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND MEMBERS.
   (a)   The Police Department and the members thereof shall, under the overall
direction of the Mayor and the immediate direction of the Chief of Police,
protect persons and property and preserve law and order within the city, and
for such purposes all police officers shall have the powers and authority
conferred on municipal police officers by state law.
   (b)   Members of the Police Department shall be vigilant in the enforcement
of the laws of the state as they may be applicable within this city and the
enforcement of the provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the city.
They shall cooperate with other city officers and employees.
§ 131.04 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The Police Department chain of command shall run from the Mayor to the Chief
of Police and from him or her down through the officers of the Department in
order of rank to the patrol officers; and it shall be unlawful for any member
of the Police Department to disobey or fail to comply with any lawful order
given him or her by a superior officer in line of duty.
§ 131.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall prepare rules and regulations not inconsistent
with state law, this Code, or other ordinance, for the government of the Police
Department and the personnel, property, and equipment thereof. Such rules and
regulations, when approved by the Mayor by endorsement thereon and approved by
resolution of the City Council, and when filed in the office of the Recorder
for public inspection and use, with a copy thereof filed in the headquarters of
the Police Department for the information of all members, shall be binding on
all members of the Department; and it shall be unlawful for any member of the
Police Department to violate or fail to comply with any such rule or regulation
which has been so promulgated, approved, and filed.
§ 131.06 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   Generally. The Code Enforcement Officer’s focus and responsibility
ranges from a different number of areas. The Code Enforcement Officer is the
person employed by the city to enforce all local ordinances and must be able to
do the following:
      (1)   Ensure properties and buildings within the corporate limits of the
city follow the requirements and expectations set forth in the city ordinance
manual;
      (2)   Investigate the abandonment of vehicles and structures;
      (3)   Inspect properties and buildings to the determine the nature of
environmental or health hazards;
      (4)   Investigate reports of nuisance violations and unsafe building
conditions;
      (5)   Answer questions from the public regarding city ordinances;
      (6)   Enforce city ordinance and issue citations for violations as
needed; and
      (7)   All other duties as required by the Mayor, Chief of Police, or City
Administrator.
   (b)   Requirements. The following are required as a Code Enforcement Officer
under the Police Department and city:
      (1)   Must have a valid West Virginia driver’s license;
      (2)   Must be able to obtain and maintain any training or qualifications
as set forth by the Police Department and the city; and
      (3)   Must be able to obtain and maintain a law enforcement based
firearms qualification.
ARTICLE 133: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
133.01   Establishment
Cross-references:
   Volunteer fire companies, see W. Va. Code 8-15-4 to 8-15-8
§ 133.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Parsons Volunteer Fire Department shall serve as the first due Fire
Department for the City of Parsons, West Virginia.
ARTICLE 135: EMERGENCY SERVICES AGENCY
Section
   
135.01   Policy and purpose
Cross-references:
   State provisions, see W. Va. Code Ch. 15, Art. 5
§ 135.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   The Tucker County Office Homeland Security and Emergency Management shall
serve as the city’s Emergency Services Agency.
ARTICLE 139: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
139.01   Purpose
   
139.02   Composition of Library Board
   
139.03   Powers of the Board
   
139.04   Officers
   
139.05   Budget requests
   
139.06   Meetings
   
139.07   Bylaw amendments
§ 139.01 PURPOSE.
   The objects of the Library Board for the public library is to provide a
systematic and efficient establishment and maintenance of a public library for
the city and the county under the directions and authority given them by the
City Council, pursuant to W. Va. Code Ch. 10, Art. 1 (1969), as amended.
§ 139.02 COMPOSITION OF LIBRARY BOARD.
   (a)   The Library Board shall consist of five directors chosen from the
citizens at large of the county, reference to their fitness for office, and
shall be appointed by the City Council for a term of five years providing,
however, that the first appointments shall be for a term of office of one, two,
three, four, and five years respectively.
   (b)   The term of office shall begin on the first day of July following
their appointment and shall continue until the successors are appointed and
qualified.
   (c)   Vacancies in the Board shall immediately be reported to the City
Council and filled by and appointment in a like manner, and if an unexpired
term exist, the remainder of the term only.
   (d)   No director shall be paid or allowed any compensation for his or her
services.
   (e)   If any Board member is absent for three consecutive regular meetings,
it will be deemed as just cause for removal from the Board of Trustees.
§ 139.03 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Library Board shall have the following powers.
   (a)   Immediately after the appointment, the Library Board shall organize
and elect one member as its President and one member as its Secretary and such
other officers as necessary. All officers shall hold office for one year and
shall be eligible for re-election.
   (b)   The directors shall adopt such by-laws, rules, and regulations as
necessary for its guidance and administration and supervision and protection of
the library, and all property belonging thereto as may not be inconsistent with
the provisions of this article.
   (c)   The Library Board shall supervises the expenditure of all money
credited to the Library Fund. All money appropriated or collected for public
library purposes shall be deposited to the credit of the Library Fund as the
Library Board shall direct and be disbursed by the officer designated by that
Board. Such officer before entering upon his or her duties to give bond payable
to and in an amount fixed by the Library Board, conditioned for the faithful
discharge of his or her official fiscal duties. The cost of such bond shall be
paid from the Library Fund. The books, records, and account of the Library
Board shall be the subject to audit and examination by the state’s Library
Commission.
   (d)   The Library Board shall lease, purchase, or otherwise acquire and
occupy suitable quarters, or erect upon the ground secured through lease,
purchase, or gift and appropriate building for the use of such library; and
have supervision, care, and custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings
constructed, leased, or set apart for library purposes.
   (e)   The Library Board shall employ a head librarian and, upon his or her
recommendation, employ such other assistants as may be necessary for the
efficient operation of the library.
   (f)   Each library established or maintained by a governing authority shall
be free for the use of all persons living within the area represented by such a
governing authority, except for those charges for which provision may be made
elsewhere in this article. The use of the library is subject to reasonable
rules and regulations adopted by the Library Board. The Library Board may
extend the privilege and use of the library to nonresidents upon such terms and
conditions as it may prescribe.
   (g)   The Library Board may exclude from the use of the library under its
charge any person who willfully and persistently violates any rule or
regulation prescribed for the use of the library or its facilities.
   (h)   The Library Board shall make an annual report for the fiscal year
ending June 30 to the governing authority or authorities appointing it, stating
the conditions of the library property, the various sums of money received for
the Library Fund, and how such money was expended, the number of books and
periodicals on hand, the number added and withdrawn during the year, the number
of books lent, the number of registered users of such library, with such other
statistics, information, and suggestions as may be deemed of general interest.
A copy of this request shall be sent to the state’s Library Commission.
   (i)   The Library Board of each public library shall be a non-profit
corporation; and as such it may contract and be contracted with, sue and be
sued, plead and be impleaded, and shall have and use a common seal. The title
to all bequests or donations of cash or other personal property or real estate
for the benefit of such library shall be vested in the Library Board to be held
in trust and controlled by such Board according to the terms and for the
purposes set forth in the deed, gift, devise, or bequest; provided, however,
that the person making the bequest or donation of cash or other personal
property or real estate for the benefit of such library, shall have the right
and privilege to vest the title thereto in a trustee, or trustees, of his or
her own selection, and to provide for the selection of successor trustees, and
to designate the manner in which said fund or property shall be invested and
used.
   (j)   The Library Board established or maintained under this article may
fix, establish, and collect such reasonable fees, service, and rental charges
as may be appropriate; may assess over due charges, penalties, damages, or
replacement costs for the loss of, injury to, or failure to return any library
property or material.
   (k)   The Library Board may sell or dispose of surplus, duplicated,
obsolete, or other unwanted materials or equipment belonging to the library.
All moneys received from these or other sources in the course of the
administration and operation of the library shall be deposited in the Library
Fund and shall be disbursed by the Library Board in the manner prescribed
elsewhere in this article.
   (l)   In addition to the foregoing powers and duties, the Library Board
shall have all powers and duties set fourth in W. Va. Code Ch. 10, Art. 1
(1969), as may from time to time be delegated to the Board by the City Council.
§ 139.04 OFFICERS.
   The Library Board shall have the following officers with the following
duties:
   (a)   President. The President shall preside over all meetings and be the
chief administrative officer for the Library Board;
   (b)   Vice-President. The Vice-President shall preside over all meetings in
the absence of the President;
   (c)   Secretary. The Secretary shall keep minutes of all meetings of the
Library Board and all reports unless the Board designates some other person;
and
   (d)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall maintain all financial ledgers.
§ 139.05 BUDGET REQUESTS.
   Budget request for the Library Board.
   (a)   During the month of July of each year, the Library Board shall prepare
an estimated budget for the following fiscal year and in said budget shall
request and itemize with particularity each item contained in their budget
showing the intended use and the amount.
   (b)   All non-ordinary expenditures must be approved by the vote of at least
three directors present at the meeting.
   (c)   The Library Board shall submit a request to City Council for an annual
allocation of funds from the William Mahan Harman Memorial Fund in March of
every year. This request must conform to the court order governing said fund.
§ 139.06 MEETINGS.
   The Board of Directors shall have a regular meeting on the third Monday of
every other month and shall have such special meeting as are called by the
President on verbal notice. Three persons present at any meeting shall
constitute a quorum, but before any non-ordinary expenditure of money or any
contract of purchase is entered into, there must be at least three directors
vote in favor of the expenditure or proposal. A vote of at least three
directors is required for the passage of any resolution by the Board, and proxy
votes by directors are not permitted.
§ 139.07 BYLAW AMENDMENTS
   The bylaws of the Library Board may be amended in the following manner.
   (a)   Written notice of the proposed amendments to the bylaws must be
submitted to each director one week prior to the regular meeting date during
which the proposed amendments are to be voted upon.
   (b)   Following said notice, the bylaws may be amended on the vote of four
members of the Library Board at any regular meeting.
ARTICLE 141: HISTORIC LANDMARK COMMISSION
Section
   
141.01   Purpose
§ 141.01 PURPOSE.
   The Tucker County Historical Landmark Commission shall serve as the city’s
Historical Landmark Commission.
ARTICLE 145: BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
145.01   Board created, powers generally
   
145.02   Members; qualifications; method of appointment; terms of office;
disqualifications
   
145.03   Filling vacancies
   
145.04   Oath of members; organization of Board; Secretary; Treasurer
   
145.05   Members to be paid expenses; not to be personally interested in
contracts or property of Board
   
145.06   Office; powers; rules of order; regular meetings
   
145.07   Annual appropriation
   
145.08   Park Board Fund, receipts and expenditures; itemized statements
required
   
145.09   General powers of Board
   
145.10   Charges for the use of recreational facilities; use of funds
   
145.11   Use of municipal appropriations and other funds
   
145.12   Issuance of public park bonds; purpose; election expenses; use of
proceeds; ordinances
   
145.13   Separability
   
145.14   Park rules
Cross-references:
   Authority, see W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art. 21
§ 145.01 BOARD CREATED, POWERS GENERALLY.
   The Board of Park Commissioners heretofore created and now existing in the
city shall be continued for the purpose of establishing, improving, developing,
and operating a municipal park system and are particularly charged with the
responsibility of providing public parks, playgrounds, athletic fields,
swimming pools, and other recreational facilities, and of providing an adequate
recreational program for the inhabitants of the city. The Board of Park
Commissioners of the city hereinafter designated as the Board shall be a public
body with perpetual existence and have the power to receive any gift, grant,
donation, and bequest or devise, and to do any and all things and acts which
may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate purposes and
provisions of this article.
§ 145.02 MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS; METHOD OF APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE;
DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   The Board shall consist of five members, a majority of whom shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business, except as may be hereinafter
provided. Each member of said Board shall be a bona fide resident of the City
of Parsons. The terms of office shall be for a period of five years and until
their successors have been duly appointed and qualified.
§ 145.03 FILLING VACANCIES.
   When a vacancy occurs on said Board by reason of death, resignation, change
of residence from the city, or for any other cause, the city shall advertise
the vacancy for two weeks, after which all applications will be reviewed by the
Board, and present a recommendation for the position to City Council for
approval. Reappointment need not be advertised. The member or members so
appointed shall serve the unexpired term of the member in whose stead he or she
is appointed.
§ 145.04 OATH OF MEMBERS; ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; SECRETARY; TREASURER.
   (a)   After appointment, the members of the Board shall qualify by taking
and filing with the Recorder the oath prescribed by law for public officials,
and the members of the Board shall not be permitted to serve upon said Board
until they have so qualified. If any member of said Board shall fail to so
qualify on or before the date on which he or she should assume the duties of
their office, City Council may declare that position vacant and appoint a
successor as herein above provided.
   (b)   The Board shall meet monthly. Special meetings can be called by the
Board President at any time. The members of the Board shall organize by
electing one of their number President and another Secretary. The Secretary
shall keep a minute book in which he or she shall record the procedures and
transactions of the Board. The City Treasurer shall keep an account of all the
fiscal affairs of the Board and park systems.
§ 145.05 MEMBERS TO BE PAID EXPENSES; NOT TO BE PERSONALLY INTERESTED IN
CONTRACTS OR PROPERTY OF BOARD.
   The members of said Board shall receive no compensation for their services
but they shall be entitled to reimbursement for any reasonable expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties as members of said Board. Members
shall not be personally interested directly or indirectly in any contract
entered into by said Board or hold any remunerative position in connection with
the construction, operation, or maintenance of any property under their control
as members of said Board.
§ 145.06 OFFICE; POWERS; RULES OF ORDER; REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall be furnished suitable office space
where it may hold its meetings and keep its records. The Board shall have
exclusive control and management of all the properties which shall operate in
connection with the public park system for the city. The Board shall have power
to recommend employment of such persons to City Council for approval as in its
opinion may be necessary for the construction, operation, and maintenance of
the property under its control, at such wages or salaries set forth by the city
pay schedule and has been approved in the annual budget, and shall have full
control of all employees. The Board has the power to enter into executive
session to discuss individual park personnel matters. The Board shall have the
power to discipline its park employees by write up, suspension, or recommend
termination to City Council with which holds that final decision. The Board
shall adopt reasonable bylaws and rules of procedure for the conduct of its
business, and shall provide therein for regular and special meetings of the
Board.
§ 145.07 ANNUAL APPROPRIATION.
   (a)   Monies appropriated in the city budget as may be provided by Council
shall be kept and accounted for in the General Fund of the city in a like
manner and form as for all other departments. No funds shall be drawn therefrom
except pursuant to a purchase order authorized by the City Council or its
designate and then only in keeping with the monthly, bimonthly, or quarterly
allotments so provided; and otherwise all funds so appropriated for the use of
the Board of Park Commissioners shall be in like manner and form and under the
supervision of the City Council as all other departments of the city.
   (b)   The City Council shall provide the necessary funding for all
operational and maintenance costs, for the city’s park systems.
§ 145.08 PARK BOARD FUND, RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES; ITEMIZED STATEMENTS
REQUIRED.
   All Park Board Fund revenues received by the Board of Park Commissioners
shall be turned over to the City Treasurer on the day on which received. Said
monies shall be submitted with the annual budget request for the Board an
itemized estimate of the expected revenues and expenditures in said Fund for
the ensuing year.
§ 145.09 GENERAL POWERS OF BOARD.
   (a)   The Board shall have the necessary powers and authority to manage and
control all public parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums,
swimming pools, skating rinks, and other recreational facilities of all kinds
used as a part of said public park system or as a means of maintaining places
of beauty, education, and recreation, promoting the health, property, lives,
decency, morality, and other good order of the general public and particularly
of the inhabitants of the city; to abate or cause to be abated all nuisances;
to regulate or prohibit the selling of any article, foods, wares, or
merchandise within said park system so designated; regulate or prohibit the
placing of signs, billboards, posters, or advertisements within said park
system so designated, or the grounds immediately adjacent thereto; to have the
same kept in good order and free from obstruction for the use and benefit of
the public; to restrict and prevent vagrants, mendicants, beggars, tramps,
prostitutes, or disorderly persons therefrom; to construct, improve, and repair
such parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, stadiums, swimming pools,
skating rinks, and other recreational facilities on any grounds controlled by
said Board; to cause any public street, road, alley, bridle path, or walkway
which is a part of the public park system to be graded, drained, and surfaced;
to construct, operate, and maintain all necessary sewers and water lines in
connection with said public park system; and to do any and all other things or
acts which may in any way be necessary or incidental to the use and enjoyment
of the said public park system by the general public as a place or places of
beauty, education, entertainment, and recreation.
   (b)   In order to accomplish the foregoing purposes, said Board shall be
empowered to make or promulgate such rules as may be necessary or incidental
thereto; to enforce the same by appropriate proceedings in any proper tribunal
of this state or any county, district, or municipality, and utilize the cities
police staff. The City Attorney shall be the official counsel for said Board
and shall advise it on all legal matters.
§ 145.10 CHARGES FOR THE USE OF RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; USE OF FUNDS.
   The Board may make reasonable charges to the public for the privilege of
using any of the recreational facilities provided in said park or parks, and
may use the funds so created for the purpose of constructing, operating, and
maintaining said park or parks.
§ 145.11 USE OF MUNICIPAL APPROPRIATIONS AND OTHER FUNDS.
   In carrying out the purposes of this article, the said Board is authorized
to receive and disburse for such purposes any monies appropriated to it by City
Council together with any other funds which may come into its hands by gifts,
grants, donations, bequests, or devised or from its own operation or otherwise.
§ 145.12 ISSUANCE OF PUBLIC PARK BONDS; PURPOSE; ELECTION EXPENSES; USE OF
PROCEEDS; ORDINANCES.
   (a)   In accordance with the authority conferred by W. Va. Code Ch. 8, Art.
14, as amended, the city is authorized to issue, in the manner prescribed by
law, bonds for the purpose of raising funds to establish, maintain, improve,
extend, and operate a system of public parks for the city, or to refund any
bonds of the city, the proceeds of which were expended in establishing,
maintaining, improving, extending, or operating such public park system, or any
part thereof. Any bonds issued for any of the purposes stated in this section
shall contain the title or subtitle thereto the words public park bonds in
order to identify the same, and shall be of the form, denomination, and
maturity, and shall bear the rate of interest fixed by resolution of the Board.
The City Council may provide for issuing bonds for other lawful purposes of the
city in the same ordinance in which provision shall be made for issuing bonds
authorized under this section. The city shall pay all of the costs and expenses
of any election which shall be held to authorize the issuance of public park
bonds only, through the Parks Department funds. The expenses of holding an
election to authorize the issuance of public park bonds and bonds for other
municipal purposes shall be paid by the Parks Department and the municipality
respectively, in the proportion that the public park bonds bear to the total
amount of bonds authorized.
   (b)   Whenever the Council and the requisite majority of the voters thereof
shall authorize, in the manner prescribed by law, the issuance of bonds for the
purpose of establishing, maintaining, improving, extending and operating a
system of public parks in the city or for refunding any outstanding bonds, the
proceeds of which were applied to any of said purposes, said bonds shall be
issued and delivered to the Board to be by it sold in the manner prescribed by
law, and the proceeds paid into the treasury of the Board, and the same shall
be applied and utilized by the Board for the purposes prescribed by the
ordinance authorizing the issuance of such bonds. In any ordinance for the
issuance of bonds for such purposes, it shall be a sufficient statement of the
purposes for creating the debt. To specify that the same is for the purpose of
establishing, maintaining, improving, extending, and operating a public park
system for the city without specifying the particular improvements, extensions,
replacement, or additions contemplated, but an ordinance for refunding bonds
shall designate the issue and the number of bonds which it is proposed to
refund.
§ 145.13 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
§ 145.14 PARK RULES.
   (a)   Smoking, vaping and/or any other means of tobacco/nicotine use is
prohibited within the confines of any pavilion, and/or any other structure
under roof, including bathrooms within any of the city’s parks systems, unless
specificity marked as a designated area for which to do so, within and/or about
30 feet of any and all playground equipment, within the fenced area of the
splash park, within the perimeters of the skate park, within any of the fenced
perimeters of River City Park, or any other posted areas.
   (b)   All trash must be deposited in the provided receptacles throughout the
parks by all patrons. Failure to do so will be considered littering, and will
be prosecuted as such, in accordance with all ordinances pertaining to
littering within the city.
   (c)   Restroom facilities must be kept clean and neat. Anyone, including
parents and/or guardians of juveniles, responsible for vandalizing, damaging,
and/or causing the facilities to become inoperative and/or not useable will be
held liable for all repair and/or restoration costs. Violators will be
prosecuted to the full extent of the law.
   (d)   All pets within the parks systems, must be leashed at all times,
unless within an established fenced dog park area. All feces deposited within
the parks from said pets, must be collected, by the owners and/or walkers
utilizing their own and/or the provided collection stations supplies throughout
the parks systems, and disposed of properly.
   (e)   Rentals of all pavilions will be honored and respected. Intrusion upon
these areas during scheduled/reserved events will be in violation of the Parks
and Recreation Commission rental rules, and subject to citation and/or
forfeiture of park property privileges.
   (f)   All league sponsored event(s) will require and submit a certificate of
liability insurance for said event(s), along with a copy of a schedule for the
season, to the city business office within 48 hours prior to the beginning of
the event(s).
   (g)   Usage/rental of the concession stand at River City Park requires
removal of any and all perishable items and refuse at the end of the event or
season, and must leave the facility clean. Failure to do so will result in a
mandatory clean-up fee, in force at the time of the infraction set forth by the
Parks and Recreation Commission.
   (h)   Use of all park facilities and its equipment are done so at the user’s
risk. The city and/or the Parks and Recreation Commission will not be
responsible for any bodily injury or damage to personal property during the
usage of the these facilities and/or properties.
   (i)   Separate/additional rules for Wellness 24 and the Parsons Community
Center will additionally apply, including user/membership agreements and/or
waivers.
   (j)   The Code Enforcement Officer will enforce all rules and regulations
established by the Parks and Recreation Commission.
ARTICLE 149: EMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Article 149. The Personnel Policy, job
descriptions, and wage schedule are on file with the City Administrator.
Cross-references:
   Bonds, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(46), (47); 6-2-11
   Compensation of officers and employees, see W. Va. Code 8-5-12
   Conflict of interest, see W. Va. Code 8-5-19
   Employee benefit fund, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(55)
   Insurance and indemnification, see W. Va. Code 8-12-7 et seq.
   Military leave, see W. Va. Code. Ch. 6-11; 15-1F-1
   Reimbursement of employment applicant, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(53)
   Retirement benefits, see W. Va. Code Art. 8-22
   Social security, see W. Va. Code 5-7-5
CHAPTER 7: JUDICIAL
Article
   
171. Municipal Court
   
175. Juries
ARTICLE 171: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
171.01   Court created; jurisdiction generally
   
171.02   Warrants, orders, and process
   
171.03   Rules governing court and judges; maintenance of records
   
171.04   Record of traffic cases; Traffic Violations Bureau
   
171.05   Appeals
   
171.06   Contempt
   
171.07   Bail bonds and cash deposits
   
171.08   Fines and costs when   defendants unable to pay
   
171.09   Court costs
Cross-references:
   Costs for Crime Victims Reparation Fund, see W. Va. Code 14-2A-4
   Costs for funding law enforcement training academies, see W. Va. Code 30-29-
4
   Establishment, see W. Va. Code 8-10-2
   General rights of appeal, see W. Va. Code 8-34-1
   Search warrant, see W. Va. Code 62-1A-1
Note:
   If the offense has a mandatory jail time, the offense shall be taken to the
County Magistrate Court.
§ 171.01 COURT CREATED; JURISDICTION GENERALLY.
   There is hereby created a court, to be known as the “Municipal Court” or
“Police Court” which shall have criminal jurisdiction over violations of city
ordinances and the criminal jurisdiction of a magistrate of the State of West
Virginia with respect to offenses committed within the city limits of the city.
§ 171.02 WARRANTS, ORDERS, AND PROCESS.
   All warrants and other process and orders of the Municipal Court shall be
directed to the Chief of Police, to be executed by him or her or by one of his
or her subordinates. The police officer executing any such process or order
shall have the same authority and be subject to the same liability as a sheriff
of the State of West Virginia in performance of like services.
§ 171.03 RULES GOVERNING COURT AND JUDGES; MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   In the discharge of his or her duties and in the trial of cases, the
Municipal Judge shall follow the rules prescribed by law for criminal
proceedings before a magistrate of the state. The Municipal Judge shall keep a
record of all warrants issued by him or her, of all persons arrested and
brought before him or her and of all trials, fines, or sentences imposed or
judgments entered by him or her in a permanent book to be known as the
Municipal Court docket. A record of all entries made in such docket shall be
signed by the Municipal Judge on the date of such entry.
§ 171.04 RECORD OF TRAFFIC CASES; TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Municipal Judge shall keep or cause to be kept a record of every traffic
complaint, or other legal form of traffic charge deposited with or presented to
the Municipal Court or its Traffic Violations Bureau, if and when he or she
shall establish such Bureau, and shall keep a record of every official action
by the court or its Traffic Violations Bureau in reference thereto, including,
but not limited to, a record of every conviction, forfeiture of bail, judgment
of acquittal, and the amount of fine or forfeiture resulting from every traffic
complaint deposited with or presented to the Court or Traffic Violations
Bureau.
§ 171.05 APPEALS.
   Any person sentenced to imprisonment, or any individual or corporation
against whom a fine of $10 or more is assessed, shall have the right of appeal
from such judgment of the Municipal Judge to the court having jurisdiction over
appeals therefrom, upon the payment of costs and the execution of an appeal
bond, with security deemed sufficient by the Municipal Judge, in a penalty of
an amount deemed sufficient by the Municipal Judge, and costs, conditioned that
the appellant will appear before the appellate court on the first day of the
next term thereof to answer to the offense with which he or she is charged and
to perform and satisfy any judgment which may be entered against him or her by
the appellate court which shall have jurisdiction to try the case in accordance
with law.
§ 171.06 CONTEMPT.
   (a)   The Municipal Judge may punish for contempt a person guilty of any of
the following acts:
      (1)   Contemptuous or insolent behavior towards him or her while he or
she is engaged in the trial of a case or in any other judicial proceeding;
      (2)   Any breach of the peace, willful disturbance, or indecent conduct
in the presence of such Judge while so engaged, or so near regarding obstruct
or interrupt his or her proceedings;
      (3)   Violence or threats of violence to such Judge or any officer,
juror, witness, or party going to, attending, or returning from, any judicial
proceeding before such Judge in respect to anything done or to be done in the
course of such proceeding;
      (4)   Misbehavior of any officer in his or her official character in
respect to any action or judicial proceeding had or pending before such Judge
or any process, judgment, order, or notice therein; and
      (5)   Willful resistance, in the presence of the Judge by an officer,
juror, witness, party, or other person to any lawful process or order of such
Judge.
   (b)   An order of arrest may be issued by the Municipal Judge on which any
person guilty of contempt may be taken and brought before him or her, or such
person may be taken in custody by any officer or person present, upon the oral
order of the Judge, and held to answer for the contempt. An opportunity must be
given him or her to be heard in defense or explanation of his or her conduct;
and the Judge may thereupon discharge him or her, or adjudge him or her guilty
of the contempt, and punish him or her by fine or imprisonment, or both. The
fine shall not exceed $50 or imprisonment for five days.
   (c)   The conviction for contempt, specifying the particular circumstances
of the offense and judgment thereon, shall be entered by the Municipal Judge in
his or her docket. A warrant of commitment for the term of imprisonment
adjudged may be issued by the Judge, commanding an officer to take the offender
to the jail of the county, and the jailer to imprison him or her therein for
the adjudged term; and such warrant shall contain a transcript of the entry in
the docket. The judgment may include, in addition to the fine, all costs in the
case, including costs of arresting and keeping in prison the offender.
§ 171.07 BAIL BONDS AND CASH DEPOSITS.
   (a)   Except as may be provided otherwise in any case by state law, this
Code, or other ordinances, whenever any person is arrested for any violation of
an ordinance of the city or for any offense of which the Municipal Judge has
jurisdiction, it shall be lawful for the Municipal Judge, Recorder, Mayor,
Chief of Police, and the desk sergeant or person in charge of police
headquarters to admit such person to bail upon the execution of a bond to the
city in such an amount, not less than $25 nor more than the maximum fine which
may be adjudged against such person for the offense or offenses he or she is
alleged to have committed plus the costs which could be assessed against him or
her, as in the discretion of the officer will secure the prisoner’s presence,
conditioned that the accused will appear upon a day named, before the Municipal
Judge of the city, to await trial; and every such bond taken shall be filed as
soon as practicable with the Municipal Court by the officer approving and
taking such bond; and the Municipal Judge, Recorder, Mayor, Chief of Police,
and the desk sergeant or person in charge of police headquarters shall each
have the power to approve any bond taken under the provisions of this section,
precedence being given to the ranking officer present when such bond is
presented. No person shall be accepted as surety upon any penal bond unless he
or she shall acknowledge the bond before some official duly authorized by this
Code or by state law to administer an oath, and shall make oath that he or she
is the owner in fee of real estate situated in Tucker County and worth the
amount of the bond over and above his or her debts and liabilities; but the
officers hereinbefore named in this section are hereby authorized and empowered
to accept a deposit in cash of an amount, not less than the minimum nor more
than the maximum hereinbefore specified for a bond, which, in the judgment of
the officer accepting the deposit, will be sufficient to cause the prisoner’s
appearance upon the day required of him or her before the Municipal Judge to
await trial upon the charge against him or her. In the event any person so
released upon bond or such deposit shall fail to appear before the Municipal
Judge for trial at the appointing time, or, having appeared, shall leave the
Court without awaiting trial, his or her bond shall be forfeited thereby to the
city, and if a cash deposit has been made to secure his or her release, the sum
so deposited shall be delivered to the Municipal Judge and by him or her
promptly turned into the city treasury to the credit of the General Fund and
accounted for by him or her in the same manner that fines collected by him or
her are counted for; and in the event of the forfeiture of a penal bond, the
Treasurer shall forthwith take the steps necessary at law for the collection
thereof.
   (b)   No cash bond shall be accepted by any officer authorized to accept
such bond unless the prisoner and the officer authorized to accept it are
present at police headquarters. The money deposited as security for any
person’s appearance shall be deposited with the desk sergeant at police
headquarters, to be by him or her safely kept until the next regular session of
the Municipal Court, when it shall be turned over by the desk sergeant who
received it to the Judge of the Municipal Court, and by the Judge disposed of
as required by the bond and this division (b) and division (a) above.
   (c)   If any officer shall accept or approve any cash bond at any place or
in any other manner than is provided for and authorized by this article, such
unauthorized acceptance or approval shall constitute good cause for his or her
suspension or removal or the reprimand or fining of such officer after a
hearing on the charge by the City Council. In case of the arrest of any person
upon a charge of a felony, the bond for his or her release, if approved, shall
only be approved by the Municipal Judge, or the Judge of a court having
jurisdiction to try the prisoner for the felony alleged to have been committed
by him or her.
   (d)   No practicing attorney, officer of the Municipal Court, or member of
the Police Department shall be accepted as surety on any bond provided for in
this article.
§ 171.08 FINES AND COSTS WHEN DEFENDANTS UNABLE TO PAY.
   (a)   Whenever a person is convicted in the Municipal Court of a violation
of this Code or other ordinance or any rule, regulation, notice, or order
promulgated pursuant to authority thereof, and such person is sentenced to pay
a fine, and it shall appear to the Court on its own motion or on motion of the
defendant that such defendant is unable to pay such fine forthwith, the Court
may order the defendant to pay such fine and any costs which the defendant may
be required to pay in installments or upon such other terms and conditions or
within such period of time as may enable the defendant to pay such fine and
costs.
   (b)   In determining whether a defendant is unable to pay a fine forthwith,
the Court may require such defendant to file a petition, under oath with the
Court, upon a form provided by the Court, setting forth the financial condition
of the defendant.
   (c)   Such form shall be a questionnaire, and shall include, but shall not
be limited to: the name and residence of the defendant; his or her occupation,
if any; his or her family status and the number of persons dependent upon him
or her; his or her monthly income; whether or not his or her dependents are
employed and, if so, their approximate monthly income; his or her banking
accounts, if any; real estate owned by the defendant, or any interest he or she
may have in real estate; income produced therefrom; any independent income
accruing to the defendant; tangible and intangible personal property owned by
the defendant, or in which he or she may have an interest; and a statement
listing the approximate indebtedness of the defendant to other persons. Such
form shall also include a payment plan of the defendant, if the Court should
exercise its discretion in permitting the payment of such fine and costs in
installments or other conditions to be fixed by the Court. At the end of such
form there shall be printed in boldface type, in a distinctive color the
following: “THIS STATEMENT IS MADE UNDER OATH. ANY FALSE STATEMENT OF A
MATERIAL FACT TO ANY QUESTION CONTAINED HEREIN SHALL CONSTITUTE FALSE SWEARING
AND SHALL BE AN OFFENSE AGAINST THIS SECTION. THE MAXIMUM PENALTY IS $100 FINE
OR THIRTY DAYS IN JAIL, OR BOTH.” A copy of the petition shall be retained by
the defendant.
   (d)   If the defendant is unable to read or write, the Court or the clerk
may assist the defendant in completing the petition and require him or her to
affix his or her mark thereto. The consequences of the making of a false
statement shall be explained to such defendant.
   (e)   If a defendant is sentenced to pay a fine and payment of the fine or
fine and costs is ordered to be made on an installment basis or on other
conditions, and if the defendant is also placed on probation or imposition of
the execution of sentence is suspended, the Court may make payment of the fine
a condition of probation or suspension of sentence.
   (f)   If a defendant is permitted to pay a fine or fine and costs on an
installment basis or under such other conditions as the Court shall fix, the
Court may require as a condition that the defendant be of peace and good
behavior until the fine and costs are paid.
   (g)   When any person sentenced to pay a fine defaults in the payment of any
such fine or of any installment thereof, the Court may issue a summons for such
person to appear before the Court for a hearing on the question of whether such
person’s failure to pay the fine or any installment was attributable to
intentional refusal to comply with the prior order of the Court or to a lack of
a good faith effort to comply therewith. The Court may, after hearing, order
that the person in default be allowed additional time for payment, may reduce
or remit the amount of the fine or the unpaid portion thereof in whole or in
part, or upon a finding that the default was intentional or due to the lack of
a good faith effort to comply with the prior order of the Court, may order such
person confined for such period up to 30 days as the Court in its discretion
shall determine.
§ 171.09 COURT COSTS.
   (a)   Administrative fee per summons. A Municipal Court fee of $25 is hereby
established to be assessed on each summons, upon conviction.
   (b)   Fee for failure to appear. A failure to appear fee of $20 will be
charged to all persons who do not appear as directed by a summons or citation;
unless prior arrangements are made with, and approved by the Court. This fee
will be charged regardless of the final outcome of the Court proceeding and
will be charged each time that a failure to appear occurs.
   (c)   Daily charge for jail time. Persons serving jail time will have the
cost of jail fees and associated transportation added to any and all fines
associated with their conviction(s).
ARTICLE 175: JURIES
Section
   
175.01   Persons liable to service
   
175.02   Exemptions and disqualifications
   
175.03   Jury Commissioners
   
175.04   Jury list
   
175.05   Selection of trial jurors
   
175.06   Discharge of jurors
   
175.07   Competency of jurors
   
175.08   Penalty for failure to draw or summon jurors
   
175.09   Compensation of jurors; taxation of jury fees as cost; disposition of
fees
   
175.10   Fraud in selection of jurors
Cross-references:
   Petit juries, see W. Va. Code Ch. 52-1
§ 175.01 PERSONS LIABLE TO SERVICE.
   All persons who are at least 18 years of age and who are citizens of this
city shall be liable to serve as municipal jurors, except as hereinafter
provided.
§ 175.02 EXEMPTIONS AND DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   The Judge of the Municipal Court may, in his or her discretion, exempt or
excuse any person from jury service when it appears that such service would be
improper or work an undue hardship. The following persons shall be disqualified
from serving as jurors: idiots; lunatics; paupers; vagabonds; habitual
drunkards; and persons convicted of infamous crimes. Any person over the age of
65 years of age shall, upon written request to the Judge, be excused from jury
service.
§ 175.03 JURY COMMISSIONERS.
   (a)   There shall be two Jury Commissioners of the Court. They shall be
citizens of good standing and residents in the city. The chairperson of a
political party shall be ineligible for appointment.
   (b)   Jury Commissioners shall be appointed by the Municipal Judge. The
terms of office shall be four years and shall commence upon appointments.
   (c)   Jury Commissioners may be removed from office by the Municipal Judge
for official misconduct, incompetency, habitual drunkenness, neglect of duty,
or gross immorality. Vacancies caused by death, resignation, or otherwise shall
be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointments.
   (d)   Jury Commissioners shall receive as compensation for their services,
while necessarily employed, an amount to be fixed by the Municipal Judge of the
Court, which amount shall not exceed $50 per day of actual service, which shall
be payable out of the city treasury upon orders of the Municipal Judge.
   (e)   Before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, a Jury
Commissioner shall take and subscribe, before the Clerk of the Court, who is
hereby authorized to administer the same, an oath, to be filed and preserved by
him or her in his or her office, to the following effect:
“State of West Virginia,
County of Tucker, to-wit:
I, __________________________ do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of this State and will
faithfully discharge the duties of Jury Commissioner to the best of my skill
and judgment, and that I will not place any person upon the jury list in
violation of law, or out of fear, favor, or affection.”
§ 175.04 JURY LIST.
   (a)   The Jury Commissioners shall annually, at such time as may be
designated by order of the Court, prepare a list of such inhabitants of city,
not exempted or disqualified by law as aforesaid, as they shall think well
qualified to serve as jurors, being persons of sound judgment, of good
character, and free from legal exception, which list shall include not less
than 100 nor more than 400 persons. The name of no person shall be put on such
list who shall have been drawn and who actually served as a petit juror in any
court of record within a period of two years prior thereto, or who shall have
requested the Jury Commissioners or either of them, by himself or another
person, to have his or her name placed on such list; and any such person shall
be disqualified from serving as a juror for the period of two years from the
date of such service or from the time of making such request.
   (b)   The list so prepared shall be delivered to the Clerk of the Court and
by him or her be safely kept. It shall be subject to inspection only by the
Court, the Jury Commissioners, or the Clerk of the Court, as hereinafter
prescribed. Such Court, or the Jury Commissioners, may strike from such list
the name of any person who has been convicted of any scandalous offense or been
guilty of any gross immorality, and substitute another in his or her place.
   (c)   At the time such list is made out, the Jury Commissioners shall also
cause all the names upon the same to be fairly written, each on a separate
paper or ballot, and shall fold or roll up the ballots so regarding resemble
each other as nearly as may be and so that the name written thereon shall not
be visible on the outside, and shall deposit the ballots in a secure box, to be
prepared for the purpose, which shall be known as the “Jury box” and shall be
safely kept by the Clerk of the Court, and shall be opened only by the order of
the Jury Commissioners or as hereinafter prescribed.
§ 175.05 SELECTION OF TRIAL JURORS.
   (a)   All jurors required for the trial of cases in the Court shall be
selected by drawing ballots from the jury box in the manner prescribed in this
article, and the persons whose names are written on the ballots so drawn shall
be returned to serve as jurors.
   (b)   The Clerk of the Court, at the discretion of the Municipal Judge,
shall, at least 15 days before any jury may be wanted, issue a venire fascias
for 30 jurors, unless the Court shall order a greater or lesser number, in
which event the writ shall issue for such other number. Such writ shall require
the attendance of the jurors on such day as the Municipal Judge may order.
   (c)   The jurors chosen in accordance with division (B) above shall be
chosen by the Jury Commissioners. The Clerk of the Court shall issue a summons
requiring the Jury Commissioners to attend at the office of the Clerk of the
Court on a day named in such summons which shall be not less than five days
after the issuance of such summons for the purpose of drawing the ballots for
the number of jurors mentioned in such writ.
   (d)   The writ of venire fascias and summons shall be delivered to the Chief
of Police, or other officer acting in lieu of the Chief, who shall serve the
summons on the Jury Commissioners, and it shall be the duty of the Jury
Commissioners to attend on the day designated in the summons at the office of
the Clerk of the Court and, in the presence of the Clerk, to draw the proper
number of jurors’ names from the jury box, and to make a list thereof to be
delivered to the officers serving the summons.
   (e)   (1)   If either or both of the Jury Commissioners fail to attend as
required by such summons, the Clerk of the Court shall appoint a special Jury
Commissioner or commissioners, having the qualifications herein required, to
act in his or her or their place and stead for the time being, and such jurors
shall be drawn by such commissioners; and it shall be the duty of the Clerk of
the Court to place the list thereof in the hands of the Chief of Police or
other officer authorized to summon them. It shall be the duty of such officer,
at least three days before the time when the jurors are required to attend, to
summon each person who is drawn to attend the sitting of the Court at the time
and place mentioned in the writ, and make due return thereof, and of the
summons aforesaid to such Court at the opening thereof.
      (2)   In addition to any other method provided by law, any person named
in the writs of venire fascias or a summons for jurors, by direction of the
Court, may be served by the Chief of Police mailing a copy thereof to such
person commanding him or her to attend as a juror at a time and place
designated therein, which copy shall be registered or certified and deposited
in the post office, addressed to such person at his or her usual post office
address. The personal receipt of the person so addressed for such registered or
certified copy shall be regarded as personal service of such writ or summons
upon such person.
   (f)   When jurors’ names are to be drawn as aforesaid, the ballots in the
jury box shall be shaken and mixed together by one of the Jury Commissioners
and the other Jury Commissioner shall openly draw therefrom as many ballots
(without inspecting the names written on any until the proper number is drawn)
as shall be equal to the number of jurors required; and if any person whose
name is so drawn is unable by reason of sickness, absence from home, or other
cause to attend as a juror, his or her name shall, at the conclusion of such
draft, be returned into the box; or if he or she be exempted by law or his or
her name has been stricken from the jury list, the ballot shall be destroyed
and another shall be drawn in its stead.
   (g)   When any person is drawn and returned to serve as aforesaid, the Jury
Commissioners shall cause to be endorsed on the ballot containing his or her
name the word “drawn”, and shall cause it to be placed in another box to be
kept for the purpose of custody of the Clerk of the Court, and opened only as
hereinafter prescribed; and the date of the draft shall be entered on the list
of jurors opposite the name of the person so drawn.
   (h)   When all the ballots in the jury box have been destroyed or placed in
the box for the ballots, marked “drawn”, except such as contain the names of
those who, for the reasons aforesaid, are unable to attend, the last mentioned
box shall be opened in the presence of the officers attending to draw jurors,
and the ballots therein replaced in the jury box, from which drafts shall
thereafter again be made in the manner herein prescribed.
   (i)   If any person duly summoned to attend as a juror shall neglect to
attend, without any sufficient excuse, he or she shall pay a fine not exceeding
$50, which shall be imposed by the Municipal Court.
§ 175.06 DISCHARGE OF JURORS.
   The Municipal Court, when not incompatible with the proper dispatch of its
business, shall have power to discharge persons summoned as jurors or dispense
with their attendance on any day of its sitting.
§ 175.07 COMPETENCY OF JURORS.
   No juror shall be deemed incompetent because the city is a party to the
matter to be tried and the juror is a resident of such city.
§ 175.08 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO DRAW OR SUMMON JURORS.
   When, by neglect of any of the duties required in this article to be
performed by any of the officers or person herein mentioned, the jurors to be
returned shall not be duly drawn and summoned to attend the Court, any person
guilty of such neglect shall pay a fine not exceeding $20, to be imposed by the
Court.
§ 175.09 COMPENSATION OF JURORS; TAXATION OF JURY FEES AS COST; DISPOSITION OF
FEES.
   (a)   Any person summoned as aforesaid, by virtue of a venire fascias or
otherwise, to serve as a juror, and actually attending the Municipal Court at
the time summoned, whether he or she be called to serve as a juror or not,
shall, for each day he or she so attends, be entitled to receive the sum of not
more than $15, which sum shall include travel expenses and meal allowance.
There shall be taxes in the costs against any person against whom a judgment on
the verdict of a jury may be rendered in a case, and against any person on
whose motion the verdict of a jury is set aside and a new trial granted, a
total sufficient to pay the costs of the jury as aforesaid, which, when
collected by the Clerk from the party, shall be paid to the city treasury. All
money so received by the Clerk shall be forthwith paid by him or her to the
City Treasurer and the Clerk and his or her surety shall be liable therefor on
his or her official bond as for other money coming into his or her hands by
virtue of his or her office.
   (b)   The Clerk of the Court shall at least annually certify to the City
Treasurer a list of all money so paid to him or her and, in addition thereto, a
correct list of all the cases in which jury fees have been taxed and are, at
the time, properly due and payable in the city treasury.
   (c)   No juror who shall depart without leave of the Court shall be entitled
to receive any compensation for his or her services as a juror.
   (d)   The Clerk of the Court upon which jurors are in attendance shall
quarterly, and under the direction of the Court, make an entry upon its
records, stating separately the amount which each juror is entitled to receive
out of the city treasury for his or her services or attendance during the
quarter; and such Clerk of the Court upon which juries are in attendance, if
directed by the Court, shall at any time during such period and under the
direction of the Court make an entry upon its records, stating separately the
amount which each juror is entitled to receive out of the city treasury for his
or her services or attendance during the period. It shall be the duty of the
Clerk, as soon as practicable, to transmit to the Treasurer copies of all
orders under this section making allowances payable out of the city treasury.
Any Clerk who shall fail to pay over, as required by law, any monies so
received by him or her or otherwise fail to comply with the provisions of this
article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $50.
   (e)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk, as soon as practicable after the
adjournment of the Court, or before the adjournment of the Court at such time
as the Court may direct, to deliver to each juror a certified copy of any order
under the preceding division making an allowance to him or her, payable out of
the city treasury; and the Treasurer shall, upon demand, pay to such juror the
amount allowed to him or her.
§ 175.10 FRAUD IN SELECTION OF JURORS.
   If any person shall be guilty of any fraud, by tampering with the jury box
prior to drawing jurors, or in drawing a juror, or in returning into the jury
box the name of any person which has lawfully been drawn out and drawing and
substituting another instead, or in failing to place such name in the box for
the ballots marked “drawn”, or in any other way in the drawing of jurors, he or
she shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.
PART III: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
1.   ADMINISTRATION
      
3.   STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
5.   VEHICULAR OPERATION
      
7.   PARKING
      
9.   PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATION
Article
   
301.   Definitions
   
303.   Enforcement, Impounding, and Penalty
   
305.   Traffic Control
ARTICLE 301: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
301.01   Meaning of words and phrases
   
301.02   Authorized emergency vehicle
   
301.03   Bicycle
   
301.04   Bus
   
301.05   Business district
   
301.06   Controlled-access highway
   
301.07   Crosswalk
   
301.08   Driver
   
301.081   Electric personal assistive mobility device
   
301.09   Explosives
   
301.10   Flammable liquid
   
301.11   Gross weight
   
301.12   Intersection
   
301.13   Laned roadway
   
301.14   Moped
   
301.15   Motorcycle
   
301.16   Motor-driven cycle
   
301.17   Motor vehicle
   
301.18   Owner
   
301.19   Park
   
301.20   Parking area
   
301.201   Passenger van
   
301.21   Pedestrian
   
301.22   Person
   
301.23    Pole trailer
   
301.24   Police officer
   
301.25   Private road or driveway; private property
   
301.26   Residence district
   
301.27   Residential street
   
301.28   Right-of-way
   
301.29   Roadway
   
301.30   Safety zone
   
301.31   School bus
   
301.32   School grounds
   
301.33   Semitrailer
   
301.34   Sidewalk
   
301.35   Stop
   
301.36   Stop, stopping, or standing
   
301.37   Street or highway; alley
   
301.38   Through street or through highway
   
301.39   Traffic
   
301.40   Traffic control devices
   
301.41   Traffic control signal
   
301.42   Trailer
   
301.43   Truck
   
301.44   Vehicle
   
301.45   Wheelchair
Cross-references
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Speed race defined, see TRAF.
335.04
§ 301.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   The following words and phrases when used in this Traffic Code shall, for
the purpose of this Traffic Code, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this article.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-1)
§ 301.02 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, duly
chartered rescue squad, Police Department, ambulance service; state, county, or
municipal agency and such privately owned ambulances, tow trucks, wreckers,
flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles,
service vehicles of a public service corporation, postal service vehicles, snow
removal equipment, Class A vehicles of firefighters, Class A vehicles of
members of ambulance services, and Class A vehicles of members of duly
chartered rescue squads, and all other emergency vehicles as are designated by
the agency responsible for the operation and control of these persons or
organizations. CLASS A VEHICLES are as defined by W. Va. Code 17A-10-1. AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION AND EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT are defined in W. Va. Code 17C-15-26.
Agencies responsible for issuing authorization for emergency vehicle permits
may promulgate such regulations that are necessary for the issuance of permits
for emergency vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-6)
§ 301.03 BICYCLE.
   BICYCLE. Every device which does not have a motor attached and which is
propelled by human power upon which any person may ride, having two tandem
wheels, either of which is more than 20 inches in diameter.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-8)
§ 301.04 BUS.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than seven passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-13)
§ 301.05 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway when within any 600 feet along such highway where there are buildings
in use for business or industrial purposes, including but not limited to,
hotels, banks, or office buildings, and public buildings which occupy at least
300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-45)
§ 301.06 CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same, except at such points only and in such
manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over
such highway, street, or roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-41)
§ 301.07 CROSSWALK.
   CROSSWALK. Includes:
   (a)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street or highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the
edges of the traversable roadway; and
   (b)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-43)
§ 301.08 DRIVER.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-31)
§ 301.081 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE or EPAMD. A self-balancing, two
nontandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person, with an
electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts (one horse power),
whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered solely by such a
propulsion system while ridden by an operator who weighs 170 pounds, is less
than 20 mph.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-66)
§ 301.09 EXPLOSIVES.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly
used or intended for the purpose of producing an explosive and which contains
any oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-24)
§ 301.10 FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F, or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closedcup test device.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-25)
§ 301.11 GROSS WEIGHT.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle without load plus the weight of any
load thereon.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-26)
§ 301.12 INTERSECTION.
   INTERSECTION. Includes:
   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral
curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two
streets or highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets or
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; and
   (b)   Where a street or highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street or highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event
such intersecting street or highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more
apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such streets or highways shall be
regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-42)
§ 301.13 LANED ROADWAY.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-39)
§ 301.14 MOPED.
   MOPED. Every motorcycle or motor-driven cycle unless otherwise specified in
this Traffic Code, which is equipped with two or three wheels, foot pedals to
permit muscular propulsion, and an independent power source providing a maximum
of two brake horsepower. If a combustion engine is used, the maximum piston or
rotor displacement shall be 50 cubic centimeters regardless of the number of
chambers in such power source. The power source shall be capable of propelling
the vehicle, unassisted, at a speed not to exceed 30 mph on a level road
surface and shall be equipped with a power drive system that functions directly
or automatically only, not requiring clutching or shifting by the operator
after the drive system is engaged.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-5a)
§ 301.15 MOTORCYCLE.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-4)
§ 301.16 MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle having a piston displacement of more
than 50 cubic centimeters but not more than 150 cubic centimeters, or with not
more than five brake horsepower.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-5)
§ 301.17 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except motorized wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-3)
§ 301.18 OWNER.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-32)
§ 301.19 PARK.
   PARK. When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-54)
§ 301.20 PARKING AREA.
   PARKING AREA. Lots, areas, or other accommodations for the parking of
vehicles off the street or highway and open to public use with or without
charge.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-60)
§ 301.201 PASSENGER VAN.
   PASSENGER VAN. Any van or other motor vehicle owned by any agency, business,
or other legal entity and operated for the purpose of transportation of
children under the age of 18 years, other than a van utilized for private use,
taxicab, bus, or school bus. PASSENGER VANS include, but are not limited to,
vehicles used by daycare centers, after-school centers, and nursery schools;
provided, that the term PASSENGER VAN does not include any van or other motor
vehicle which is utilized for the specific purpose of transporting children to
medical facilities for the purpose of medical or dental treatment and which
loads and unloads the children on private property, making no stops for loading
or unloading along public roads or highways.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-64)
§ 301.21 PEDESTRIAN.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot or any person using a wheelchair.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-30)
§ 301.22 PERSON.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association, or
corporation.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-29)
§ 301.23 POLE TRAILER.
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes, trusses, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-17)
§ 301.24 POLICE OFFICER.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-33)
§ 301.25 PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (a)   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and
used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   (b)   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Real estate in private ownership without regard to
the manner in which it is used.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-36)
§ 301.26 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-46)
§ 301.27 RESIDENTIAL STREET.
   RESIDENTIAL STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
way, whether publicly or privately maintained, located within any subdivision,
development, or other similar area used primarily for residential purposes when
any part thereof is open to the common use of those living in such area for the
purpose of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-62)
§ 301.28 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-51)
§ 301.29 ROADWAY.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a street or highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to
all such roadways collectively.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-37)
§ 301.30 SAFETY ZONE.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-44)
§ 301.31 SCHOOL BUS.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school, or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-7)
§ 301.32 SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. Includes the land on which a school is built together with
such other land used by students for play, recreation, or athletic events while
attending school.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-55)
§ 301.33 SEMITRAILER.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-16)
§ 301.34 SIDEWALK.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or highway between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-38)
§ 301.35 STOP.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-52)
§ 301.36 STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING.
   STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-53)
§ 301.37 STREET OR HIGHWAY; ALLEY.
   (a)   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-35)
   (b)   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or
side of lots or buildings in urban districts and not intended for the purpose
of through vehicular traffic.
§ 301.38 THROUGH STREET OR THROUGH HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH STREET or THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway, or portion
thereof, at the entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets
or highways is required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same,
and when stop signs are erected as provided in this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-40)
§ 301.39 TRAFFIC.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street or highway
for purposes of travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-50)
§ 301.40 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, and device not
inconsistent with this Traffic Code placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-47)
§ 301.41 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-48)
§ 301.42 TRAILER.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-15)
§ 301.43 TRUCK.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-12)
§ 301.44 VEHICLE.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or wheelchairs.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-2)
§ 301.45 WHEELCHAIR.
   WHEELCHAIR. A motorized or nonmotorized wheeled device designed for, and
used by, a person with disabilities that is incapable of a speed in excess of
eight mph.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-65)
ARTICLE 303: ENFORCEMENT, IMPOUNDING, AND PENALTY
Section
   
303.01   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
303.02   Application to vehicles upon streets and highways; exceptions
   
303.03   Obedience to police officers; fleeing
   
303.04   Application to government vehicles; exception
   
303.05   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
303.06   Application to persons riding animals or driving animal-drawn vehicles
   
303.07   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
   
303.08   Rights of owners of real property
 
   
303.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Disposition of abandoned vehicles, see W. Va. Code 17-24A-5 et seq.
   Power of local authorities, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8
   Uniform application of West Virginia traffic law, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-7
§ 303.01 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this municipality and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this municipality.
   (b)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (c)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
§ 303.02 APPLICATION TO VEHICLES UPON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this Traffic Code relating to the operation of vehicles
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways
except:
   (a)   Where a different place is specifically referred to in a given
section; or
   (b)   The provisions of this Traffic Code, except Article 347, shall apply
upon streets and highways as defined in §
301.37.
(W. Va. Code 17C-2-1)
§ 303.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with a lawful order
or direction of any police officer or designated special officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic.
(W. Va. Code 17C-2-3(c))
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle so as to willfully elude or flee a
police officer or designated special officer after receiving a visible or
audible signal from such an officer to bring his or her vehicle to a stop.
§ 303.04 APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   The provisions of this Traffic Code applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state, or any county,
municipality, town, district, or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
are set forth in this Traffic Code with reference to authorized emergency
vehicles.
   (b)   Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of this Traffic
Code shall not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a street or highway but
shall apply to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work.
(W. Va. Code 17C-2-4)
§ 303.05 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (b)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he or she does not endanger life
or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (c)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted flashing lamp as
authorized by §
345.18 which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle, except that an authorized emergency
vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be equipped with or display a
warning light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (d)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(W. Va. Code 17C-2-5)
§ 303.06 APPLICATION TO PERSONS RIDING ANIMALS OR DRIVING ANIMAL-DRAWN
VEHICLES.
   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this Traffic Code, except those
provisions of this Traffic Code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(W. Va. Code 17C-2-6)
§ 303.07 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   Police officers are authorized to provide for the removal and impounding of
a vehicle under the following circumstances:
   (a)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any street, bridge, or
causeway and is so illegally parked so as to constitute a hazard or obstruction
to the normal movement of traffic, or so as to unreasonably interfere with
street cleaning or snow removal operations;
   (b)   When any vehicle has been abandoned or junked on private or public
property as provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 17-24A;
   (c)   When any vehicle has been stolen or operated without the consent of
the owner;
   (d)   When any vehicle displays illegal license plates or fails to display
the current lawfully required license plates;
   (e)   When any vehicle has been used in or connected with the commission of
a felony;
   (f)   When any vehicle has been damaged or wrecked so as to be inoperable or
violates equipment provisions of this Traffic Code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-15
whereby its continued operation would constitute a condition hazardous to life,
limb, or property;
   (g)   When any vehicle is left unattended due to the removal of an ill,
injured, or arrested operator;
   (h)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who has failed to
stop in case of a crash or collision;
   (i)   When any vehicle has been operated by any person who is driving
without a lawful license or while his or her license has been suspended or
revoked;
   (j)   When any vehicle is found for which two or more citation tags for
violations of this Traffic Code have been issued and the owner or operator
thereof has failed to respond to such citation tags as lawfully required; and/
or
   (k)   Any vehicle removed under authority of division (b) above shall be
disposed of as provided under W. Va. Code Ch. 17-24A. Any other vehicle removed
under authority of this section shall be ordered into storage and the Police
Department shall forthwith notify the registered vehicle owner of the fact of
such removal and impounding, reasons therefor, and the place of storage. Any
person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall appear at the Police
Department to furnish satisfactory evidence of identity and ownership or right
to possession. Prior to issuance of a release form, the claimant, owner, or
operator shall either pay the amount due for any fines for violations on
account of which such vehicle was impounded or, as the court may require, post
a bond in an amount set by the court, to appear to answer to such violations.
The pound operator shall release such vehicle upon the receipt of the release
form and payment of all towage and storage charges.
§ 303.08 RIGHTS OF OWNERS OF REAL PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this Traffic Code shall be construed to prevent an owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as matter of right from prohibiting such use, or from
requiring other or different or additional conditions than those specified in
this Traffic Code, or otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to such
owner.
(W. Va. Code 17C-2-9)
§ 303.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Traffic Code for which another
penalty is not provided shall, for a first conviction thereof, be fined not
more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days; for a second such
conviction within one year thereafter, such person shall be fined not more than
$200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, such person shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17C-18-1)
ARTICLE 305: TRAFFIC CONTROL
Cross-references:
   Powers of municipality, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8
   Uniformity with state law required, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-7
CHAPTER 3: STREETS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Article
   
311.   Street Obstructions and Special Uses
   
313.   Traffic Control Devices
ARTICLE 311: STREET OBSTRUCTIONS AND SPECIAL USES
Section
   
311.01   Placing injurious material in street
   
311.02   Play streets
   
311.03   Toy vehicles on streets
   
311.04   Parades and assemblages
 
   
311.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to prohibit littering in streets, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(3)
   Authority to regulate processions or assemblages, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8(a)
(3)
   Dropping, leaking loads, see TRAF.
347.04
§ 311.01 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREET.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or highway any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to
injure any person, animal, or vehicle upon such street or highway.
   (b)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street or highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately
remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or highway from such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-11)
   (d)   No person shall throw, place, or deposit upon any street or highway
any material, article, or substance which injures or damages, or is likely to
injure or damage, the street or highway.
§ 311.02 PLAY STREETS.
   (a)   No person shall use the public streets, highways, alleys,
thoroughfares, roads, or avenues of the municipality for the purpose of
engaging in or playing any games or athletic activities, except public ways
specifically set aside for such purposes.
   (b)   When authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or highway or portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or
whose residence is within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or highway or
portion thereof.
§ 311.03 TOY VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person on roller skates or riding in or by means of any sled, toy
vehicle, skateboard, or similar device shall go upon any roadway except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and except on streets set aside as play
streets.
§ 311.04 PARADES AND ASSEMBLAGES.
   (a)   No person, group of persons, or organization shall conduct or
participate in any parade, assemblage or procession other than a funeral
procession upon any street or highway, or block off any street or highway area,
without first obtaining a permit from the Police Chief.
   (b)   Applications for such permit shall be made on such forms as may be
prescribed and shall contain such information as is reasonably necessary to a
fair determination of whether a permit should be issued. Applications shall be
filed not less than five days before the time intended for such parade,
procession, or assemblage.
   (c)   The permit may be refused or canceled if:
      (1)   The time, place, size, or conduct of the parade, including the
assembly areas and route of march would unreasonably interfere with the public
convenience and safe use of the streets and highways;
      (2)   The parade would require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers to properly police the line of movement, assembly area, and
areas contiguous thereto so as to deny normal police protection to the
municipality;
      (3)   The parade route of march or assembly areas would unreasonably
interfere with the movement of police vehicles, firefighting equipment, or
ambulance service to other areas of the municipality;
      (4)   The parade would unreasonably interfere with another parade for
which a permit has been issued;
      (5)   The information contained in the application is found to be false,
misleading, or incomplete in any material detail; and
      (6)   An emergency such as a fire or storm would prevent the proper
conduct of the parade.
   (d)   The permit or any order accompanying it may limit or prescribe
reasonable conditions, including the hours, the places of assembly and of
dispersal, the route of march or travel and the streets, highways, or portions
thereof which may be used or occupied.
§ 311.99 PENALTY.
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 313: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
313.01   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
313.02   Obedience to traffic control instructions at street construction
   
313.03   Traffic control signal terms and lights
   
313.04   Pedestrian control signals
   
313.05   Flashing traffic signals
   
313.06   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
313.07   Alteration, injury, or removal of traffic control devices
   
313.08   Traffic violations in construction zones
 
   
313.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to place traffic control devices, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8(a)(2),
17C-3-3
   Local regulations requiring traffic control devices, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8
(c)
   Placing traffic control devices on state highways, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8
(b), 17C-3-2
   Traffic control devices defined, see TRAF.
301.40
   Traffic control signal defined, see TRAF.
301.41
§ 313.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Traffic Code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or
police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
   (b)   No provision of this Traffic Code for which signs are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to evade or avoid
stopping or otherwise complying with traffic-control devices when such driver
would ordinarily have been instructed by such traffic-control device to do so
by leaving the roadway and traversing property adjacent thereto or by taking
any other measure which enables the driver to avoid compliance with traffic-
control devices as required in subsection (a).
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-4)
§ 313.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL INSTRUCTIONS AT STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the traffic control instructions of any
law enforcement officer or persons authorized by the Commissioner of Highways
or by proper local authorities to operate traffic control devices, act as
flaggers, or operate authorized vehicles engaged in work at or near the site of
street or highway construction maintenance work, for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-4a)
§ 313.03 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL TERMS AND LIGHTS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go”, “caution”, or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and such terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (a)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited under §
343.02, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (b)   Yellow alone or “caution” when showing following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (c)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone except as provided in divisions (c)(2) and (c)(3) below.
      (2)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection, may
cautiously make a right turn but such vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic
proceeding as directed by the signal at such intersection, except that Council
may by ordinance prohibit any such right turn against a red or “stop” signal at
any intersection which ordinance shall be effective when a sign is erected at
such intersection giving notice thereof.
      (3)   A vehicle which is stopped in obedience to a red or “stop” signal
as close as practicable at the entrance to the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, then at the entrance to the intersection on a
one-way street which intersects another one-way street on which traffic moves
to the left, may cautiously make a left turn into the one-way street but such
vehicle shall yield the right-of- way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other vehicular traffic proceeding as directed by the signal
at such intersection, except that Council may by ordinance prohibit any such
left turn against a red or “stop” signal at any intersection, which ordinance
shall be effective when a sign is erected at such intersection giving notice
thereof.
      (4)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (d)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (e)   Application. In the event an official traffic control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-5)
§ 313.04 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (a)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (b)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island while
the wait signal is showing.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-6)
§ 313.05 FLASHING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (a)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (b)   Local authorities, in areas that experience low traffic times, may
permit flashing signals between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-7)
§ 313.06 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (a)   No local authority or person shall place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any street or highway any unauthorized traffic control device or
traffic control signal, or any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
control device, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which
hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic
control device, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public
authority permit upon any street or highway any traffic control device bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the
erection upon private property adjacent to a street or highway of signs giving
useful directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for
official signs.
   (b)   Every such prohibited device, signal, sign, or marking is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and the Commissioner of Highways or other
authority having jurisdiction over the street or highway is hereby empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-8)
§ 313.07 ALTERATION, INJURY, OR REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or
any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-9)
§ 313.08 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS IN CONSTRUCTION ZONES.
   (a)   Where street or highway construction work is being conducted, signs
and other traffic control devices, as adopted in W. Va. Code 17C-3-1, shall be
posted giving the location of the work and notifying all motorists as to the
speed limit and any other traffic restrictions.
   (b)   No person shall violate any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at such construction site referred to in division (a) of this
section.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude prosecution of
any operator of a motor vehicle who commits a violation of any other provision
of this Traffic Code for such violation.
(W. Va. Code 17C-3-4b)
§ 313.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty. See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Specific penalty. Whoever violates §§
313.01,
313.02, or
313.04 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (c)   Construction zones.
      (1)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
313.08 by less than 15 mph shall be fined not more than $200.
      (2)   Any person who exceeds any posted speed restriction or traffic
restriction at a construction site referred to in §
313.08 by 15 mph or more shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 20 days, or both.
CHAPTER 5: VEHICULAR OPERATION
Article
   
331.   Crashes
   
333.   Driving Under the Influence; Reckless Driving
   
334.   Open Container Law
   
335.   Speed Restrictions
   
337.   Driving on Right; Passing
   
339.   Turning and Starting; Signals
   
341.   Right-of-Way
   
343.   Special Stops Required
   
345.   Safety and Equipment
   
347.   Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
   
349.   Miscellaneous Rules
   
351.   Licensing Generally
   
353.   Commercial Drivers
   
355.   All-Terrain Vehicles
ARTICLE 331: CRASHES
Section
   
331.01   Crashes involving death or personal injuries
   
331.02   Crashes involving damage to vehicle
   
331.03   Duty to give information and render aid
   
331.04   Collision with unattended vehicle
   
331.05   Collision with fixtures upon a street or highway
   
331.06   Immediate reports of crashes
   
331.07   When driver unable to report
   
331.08   Garages to report bullet damage
 
   
331.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Authority to require local crash report, see W. Va. Code 17C-4-15
   Impounding wrecked vehicles, see TRAF.
303.07
   Removal of glass and the like from highway, see TRAF.
311.01
§ 331.01 CRASHES INVOLVING DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURIES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in the injury
to or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of
the crash or as close to the scene as possible and return to and remain at the
scene of the crash until he or she has complied with the requirements of §
331.03; provided, that the driver may leave the scene of the crash as may
reasonably be necessary for the purpose of rendering assistance to any person
injured in the crash, as required by §
331.03.
   (b)   Any driver who is involved in a crash in which another person suffers
bodily injury and who intentionally violates division (a), when he or she knows
or has reason to believe that another person has suffered physical injury in
said crash, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (b), any driver who is
involved in a crash in which another person suffers serious bodily injury and
who intentionally violates division (a), when he or she knows or has reason to
believe that another person has suffered physical injury in said crash, is
guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (b) or (c), any driver who is involved in a
crash that proximately causes the death of another person who intentionally
violates division (a), when he or she knows or has reason to believe that
another person has suffered physical injury in said crash, is guilty of a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   As used in this section:
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness, or
any impairment of physical condition.
      PHYSICAL INJURY. Bodily injury, serious bodily injury, or death.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ, loss
of pregnancy, or the morbidity or mortality occurring because of a preterm
delivery.
   (f)   The Commissioner shall revoke the license or permit or operating
privilege to drive of any resident or non-resident person convicted pursuant to
the provisions of this section for a period of one year from the date of
conviction or the date of release from incarceration, whichever is later.
   (g)   This section may be known and cited as Erin’s Law.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-1)
§ 331.02 CRASHES INVOLVING DAMAGE TO VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to a
vehicle which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such
vehicle at the scene of such crash or as close thereto as possible but shall
forthwith return to and in every event shall remain at the scene of such crash
until he or she has fulfilled the requirements of §
331.03. Every such stop shall be made without obstructing traffic more than is
necessary. Any person failing to stop or comply with such requirements under
such circumstances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-2)
§ 331.03 DUTY TO GIVE INFORMATION AND RENDER AID.
   (a)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in
injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is driven or
attended by any person shall, if physically able to do so, provide to the
person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle
collided with, the following:
         A.   His or her name, a valid telephone number where he or she may be
contacted and the year, make, model, and last four digits of the vehicle
identification number of the vehicle he or she is driving; and
         B.   Proof of security and financial responsibility required by W. Va.
Code 17D-2A-3 and 17D-4-2, and if provided by insurance, the information
provided upon the certificate of insurance, including the name of the insured,
the name and contact information of the insurer, and insurance policy number.
      (2)   A driver may meet the requirements of this division (a)(2) by
providing the information required herein to a law enforcement officer who is
investigating or providing assistance at the scene of the collision, who shall,
if practical under the circumstances, provide the information to any person
entitled thereto pursuant to this division (a)(2).
   (b)   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to
or death of any person, if physically able to do so, shall render to any person
injured in such crash reasonable assistance, including the carrying, or the
making arrangements for the carrying, of such person to a physician, surgeon,
or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such
treatment is necessary or if such carrying is requested by the injured person.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-3)
§ 331.04 COLLISION WITH UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides with any vehicle which is
unattended shall immediately stop and shall then and there either locate and
notify the operator or owner of such vehicle of the name and address of the
driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave
in a conspicuous place in the vehicle struck a written notice giving the name
and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing the striking
and a statement of the circumstances thereof.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-4)
§ 331.05 COLLISION WITH FIXTURES UPON A STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in a crash resulting only in damage to
fixtures or other property legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take
reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such
property of such fact and of his or her name and address and of the
registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request
and if available, exhibit his or her driver’s license and shall make report of
such crash when and as required.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-5)
§ 331.06 IMMEDIATE REPORTS OF CRASHES.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in a crash resulting in injury to or death
of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $1,000 or more
shall immediately by the quickest means of communication, give notice of such
crash to the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-6)
§ 331.07 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of making an
immediate notification of a crash as required in §
331.06 and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the crash
capable of making a notification, such occupant shall make or cause to be made
such notification not made by the driver.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-8)
§ 331.08 GARAGES TO REPORT BULLET DAMAGE.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is brought any
motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by any bullet, shall
report to the Police Department within 24 hours after such motor vehicle is
received, giving the engine number, registration number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-12)
§ 331.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of §
331.01 after being involved in a crash resulting in physical injury but not
death to any person shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not
more than $1,000, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17C-4-1)
ARTICLE 333: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; RECKLESS DRIVING
Section
   
333.01   Driving under the influence
   
333.011    Definition of phrase “in this city”; phrases synonymous with driving
under the influence of alcohol; validation of warrants and indictments
   
333.012    Deferral of further proceedings for certain first offenses upon
condition of participation in motor vehicle alcohol test and lock program;
procedure on charge of violation of conditions
   
333.02   Reckless driving
   
333.03   Implied consent
   
333.04   Preliminary breath analysis
   
333.05   Administration of test
   
333.06   Refusal to submit to tests
   
333.07   Interpretation and use of chemical test
   
333.08   Right to demand test
   
333.09   Fee
   
333.10   Hazardous driving
Cross references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to prohibit driving under the influence, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5
(21)
   Compliance with state law, see W. Va. Code 17C-5-11(a)
   Implied consent, see W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-5A
§ 333.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BODILY INJURY. Injury that causes substantial physical pain, illness, or
any impairment of physical condition.
      IMPAIRED STATE. A person:
         A.   Is under the influence of alcohol;
         B.   Is under the influence of any controlled substance;
         C.   Is under the influence of any other drug or inhalant substance;
         D.   Is under the combined influence of alcohol and any controlled
substance or any other drug; or
         E.   Has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.08% or
more, by weight.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, that causes serious or prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of
health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
   (b)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she
is in an impaired state and such impaired state proximately causes a bodily
injury to any person other than himself or herself, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not less than one
day more than one year and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than
$1,000; provided, that such jail term shall include actual confinement of not
less than 24 hours; provided, however, that a person sentenced pursuant to this
division (b) shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or
she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (c)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality, while he or she
is in an impaired state, or while he or she is in an impaired state but has an
alcohol concentration in his or her blood of less than 0.15% by weight, is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail
for up to six months and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500;
provided, that a person sentenced pursuant to this division (c) shall receive
credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for
the subject offense.
   (d)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she
has an alcohol concentration in his or her blood of 0.15% or more, by weight,
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in
jail for not less than two days nor more than six months, which jail term is to
include actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not
less than $200 nor more than $1,000. A person sentenced pursuant to this
division (d) shall receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or
she served upon arrest for the subject offense.
   (e)   Any person who, being a habitual user of narcotic drugs or amphetamine
or any derivative thereof, drives a vehicle in this municipality is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not
less than one day nor more than six months, which jail term is to include
actual confinement of not less than 24 hours, and shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500. A person sentenced pursuant to this division (e) shall
receive credit for any period of actual confinement he or she served upon
arrest for the subject offense.
   (f)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
this municipality by any other person who is in an impaired state is guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not
more than six months and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (g)   Any person who knowingly permits his or her vehicle to be driven in
this municipality by any other person who is a habitual user of narcotic drugs
or amphetamine or any derivative thereof is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not more than six months and
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (h)   (1)   Any person under the age of 21 years who drives a vehicle in
this municipality while he or she has an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.08%, by weight, for a first
offense under this division (h) is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100. For a second or
subsequent offense under this division (h), the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for 24
hours and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person who is
charged with a first offense under the provisions of this division (h) may move
for a continuance of proceedings, from time to time, to allow the person to
participate in the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program as provided in
W. Va. Code 17C-5A-3(a). Upon successful completion of the program, the court
shall dismiss the charge against the person and expunge the person’s record as
it relates to the alleged offense. In the event the person fails to
successfully complete the program, the court shall proceed to an adjudication
of the alleged offense. A motion for a continuance under this division (h) may
not be construed as an admission or be used as evidence.
      (2)   A person arrested and charged with an offense under the provisions
of this division (h) or divisions (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) above may not
also be charged with an offense under this division (h) arising out of the same
transaction or occurrence.
   (i)   Any person who drives a vehicle in this municipality while he or she
is in an impaired state and has within the vehicle one or more other persons
who are unemancipated minors who have not yet reached their sixteenth birthday
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in
jail for not less than two days nor more than 12 months, and shall be fined not
less than $200 nor more than $1,000; provided, that such jail term shall
include actual confinement of not less than 48 hours; provided, however, that a
person sentenced pursuant to this division (i) shall receive credit for any
period of actual confinement he or she served upon arrest for the subject
offense.
   (j)   A person violating any provision of divisions (b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
or (h) above, for the second offense under this section, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be confined in jail for not
less than six months nor more than one year and the court may, in its
discretion, impose a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (k)   For purposes of division (j) of this section relating to second
offenses, the following events shall be regarded as offenses under this
section:
      (1)   Any conviction under the provisions of divisions (b), (c), (d),
(e), or (f) of this section or under a prior enactment of this section for an
offense which occurred within the ten-year period immediately preceding the
date of arrest in the current proceeding;
      (2)   Any conviction under a municipal ordinance of this state or any
other state or a statute of the United States or of any other state of an
offense which has the same elements as an offense described in divisions (b),
(c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) above, which offense occurred within the ten-year
period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current proceeding; and
      (3)   Any period of conditional probation imposed pursuant to W. Va. Code
17C-5-2(b) for violation of division (c) above, which violation occurred within
the ten-year period immediately preceding the date of arrest in the current
proceeding.
   (l)   A person may be charged in a warrant or indictment or information for
a second or subsequent offense under this section if the person has been
previously arrested for or charged with a violation of this section which is
alleged to have occurred within the applicable time period for prior offenses,
notwithstanding the fact that there has not been a final adjudication of the
charges for the alleged previous offense. In that case, the warrant or
indictment or information must set forth the date, location, and particulars of
the previous offense or offenses. No person may be convicted of a second or
subsequent offense under this section unless the conviction for the previous
offense has become final, or the person has previously had a period of
conditional probation imposed pursuant to W. Va. Code 17C-5-2(b).
   (m)   The fact that any person charged with a violation of divisions (b),
(c), (d), or (e) of this section, or any person permitted to drive as described
under divisions (f) or (g) of this section, is or has been legally entitled to
use alcohol, a controlled substance, or a drug does not constitute a defense
against any charge of violating divisions (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of
this section.
   (n)   For purposes of this section, the term CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the
meaning ascribed to it in W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
   (o)   The sentences provided in this section upon conviction for a violation
of this article are mandatory and are not subject to suspension or probation;
provided, that the court may apply the provisions of W. Va. Code 62-11A to a
person sentenced or committed to a term of one year or less for a first offense
under this section; provided, however, that the court may impose a term of
conditional probation pursuant to W. Va. Code 17C-5-2(b) to persons adjudicated
thereunder. An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to any period of
incarceration required by this section for a first or subsequent offense;
provided, however, that for any period of home incarceration ordered for a
person convicted of second offense under this section, electronic monitoring
shall be required for no fewer than five days of the total period of home
confinement ordered and the offender may not leave home for those five days
notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code 62-11B-5; provided, however, that
for any period of home incarceration ordered for a person convicted of a third
or subsequent violation of this section, electronic monitoring shall be
included for no fewer than ten days of the total period of home confinement
ordered and the offender may not leave home for those ten days notwithstanding
W. Va. Code 62-11B-5.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5-2)
   (p)   As used in divisions (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this section,
the words DRIVES A VEHICLE IN THIS MUNICIPALITY do not mean or include driving
or operating a vehicle solely and exclusively on one’s own property.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5-2)
   (q)   For purposes of this section, the phrase IN THIS MUNICIPALITY means
anywhere within the physical boundaries of this municipality, including, but
not limited to, publicly maintained streets and highways, and subdivision
streets or other areas not publicly maintained but nonetheless open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   (r)   When used in this section, the terms or phrases DRIVING UNDER THE
INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR, DRIVING OR OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE
INTOXICATED, FOR ANY PERSON WHO IS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR
TO DRIVE ANY VEHICLE, or any similar term or phrase shall be construed to mean
and be synonymous with the term or phrase WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL
DRIVES A VEHICLE as the latter term or phrase is used in this section.
   (s)   A warrant or indictment which charges or alleges an offense,
prohibited by the provisions of this section, and which warrant or indictment
uses any of the terms or phrases set forth in division (r) hereof, shall not
thereby be fatally defective if such warrant or indictment otherwise informs
the person so accused of the charges against him or her.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5-2a)
§ 333.011 DEFINITION OF PHRASE “IN THIS CITY”; PHRASES SYNONYMOUS WITH DRIVING
UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL; VALIDATION OF WARRANTS AND INDICTMENTS.
   (a)   For purposes of this article and §
333.01, the phrase IN THIS CITY shall mean anywhere within the physical
boundaries of this city, including, but not limited to, publicly maintained
streets and highways, and subdivision streets or other areas not publicly
maintained but nonetheless open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
   (b)   When used in this Code, the terms or phrases DRIVING UNDER THE
INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR, DRIVING OR OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE
INTOXICATED, FOR ANY PERSON WHO IS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR
TO DRIVE ANY VEHICLE, or any similar term or phrase shall be construed to mean
and be synonymous with the term or phrase WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL
DRIVES A VEHICLE as the latter term or phrase is used in §
333.01.
   (c)   From and after July 21, 2009 a warrant or indictment which charges or
alleges an offense, prohibited by the provisions of §
333.01, and which warrant or indictment uses any of the terms or phrases set
forth in division (b) hereof, shall not thereby be fatally defective if such
warrant or indictment otherwise informs the person so accused of the charges
against him or her.
§ 333.012 DEFERRAL OF FURTHER PROCEEDINGS FOR CERTAIN FIRST OFFENSES UPON
CONDITION OF PARTICIPATION IN MOTOR VEHICLE ALCOHOL TEST AND LOCK PROGRAM;
PROCEDURE ON CHARGE OF VIOLATION OF CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Except as provided in division (g) hereof, whenever any person who has
not previously been convicted of any offense under this article or under any
statute of the United States or of any state relating to driving under the
influence alcohol, any controlled substance, or any other drug:
      (1)   Notifies the court within 30 days of his or her arrest of his or
her intention to participate in a deferral pursuant to this section; and
      (2)   Pleads guilty to or is found guilty of driving under the influence
of alcohol under §
333.01(c)(2), the court, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the
consent of the accused, shall defer further proceedings and, notwithstanding
any provisions of this code to the contrary, place him or her on probation,
which conditions shall include, that he or she successfully completes the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program as provided in W. Va. Code 17C-5-3a.
Participation therein shall be for a period of at least 165 days after he or
she has served the 15 days of license suspension imposed pursuant to W. Va.
Code 17C-5a-2.
   (b)   A defendant’s election to participate in deferral under this section
shall constitute a waiver of his or her right to an administrative hearing as
provided in W. Va. Code 17C-5a-2.
   (c)   (1)   If the prosecuting attorney files a motion alleging that the
defendant during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program
has been removed therefrom by the Division of Motor Vehicles, or has failed to
successfully complete the program before making a motion for dismissal pursuant
to division (d) hereof, the court may issue such process as is necessary to
bring the defendant before the court.
      (2)   A motion alleging such violation filed pursuant to division (c)(1)
hereof must be filed during the period of the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program or, if filed thereafter, must be filed within a reasonable time
after the alleged violation was committed.
      (3)   When the defendant is brought before the court, the court shall
afford the defendant an opportunity to be heard. If the court finds that the
defendant has been rightfully removed from the Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and
Lock Program by the Division of Motor Vehicles, the court may order, when
appropriate, that the deferral be terminated, and thereupon enter an
adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided.
      (4)   Should the defendant fail to complete or be removed from the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program, the defendant waives the appropriate
statute of limitations and the defendant’s right to a speedy trial under any
applicable federal or state constitutional provisions, statutes, or rules of
court during the period of enrollment in the program.
   (d)   When the defendant shall have completed satisfactorily the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program and complied with its conditions, the
defendant may move the court for an order dismissing the charges. This motion
shall be supported by affidavit of the defendant and by certification of the
Division of Motor Vehicles that the defendant has successfully completed the
Motor Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program. A copy of the motion shall be
served on the prosecuting attorney who shall within 30 days after service
advise the judge of any objections to the motion, serving a copy of such
objections on the defendant or the defendant’s attorney. If there are no
objections filed within the 30-day period, the court shall thereafter dismiss
the charges against the defendant. If there are objections filed with regard to
the dismissal of charges, the court shall proceed as set forth in division (c)
hereof.
   (e)   Except as provided herein, unless a defendant adjudicated pursuant to
this division be convicted of a subsequent violation of this article, discharge
and dismissal under this section shall be without adjudication of guilt and is
not a conviction for purposes of disqualifications or disabilities imposed by
law upon conviction of a crime except for those provided in W. Va. Code 17C-5-
2b. Except as provided in §
333.01(j), (k), and (l) regarding subsequent offenses, the effect of the
dismissal and discharge shall be to restore the person in contemplation of law
to the status he or she occupied prior to arrest and trial. No person as to
whom a dismissal and discharge have been effected shall be thereafter held to
be guilty of perjury, false swearing, or otherwise giving a false statement by
reason of his or her failure to disclose or acknowledge his or her arrest or
trial in response to any inquiry made of him or her for any purpose other than
any inquiry made in connection with any subsequent offense as that term is
defined in §
333.01(l).
   (f)   There may be only one discharge and dismissal under this section with
respect to any person.
   (g)   No person shall be eligible for dismissal and discharge under this
section:
      (1)    In any prosecution in which any violation of any other provision
of this article has been charged;
      (2)    If the person holds a commercial driver’s license or operates
commercial motor vehicle(s), or
      (3)    The person has previously had his or her driver’s license revoked
under §
333.01 or under any statute of the United States or of any state relating to
driving under the influence alcohol, any controlled substance, or any other
drug.
   (h)   (1)    After a period of not less than one year which shall begin to
run immediately upon the expiration of a term of probation imposed upon any
person under this section, the person may apply to the court for an order to
expunge from all official records all recordations of his or her arrest, trial,
and conviction, pursuant to this section except for those maintained by the
Division of Motor Vehicles; provided, that any person who has previously been
convicted of a felony may not make a motion for expungement pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   If the prosecuting attorney objects to the expungement, the
objections shall be filed with the court within 30 days after service of a
motion for expungement and copies of the objections shall be served on the
defendant or the defendant’s attorney.
      (3)   If the objections are filed, the court shall hold a hearing on the
objections, affording all parties an opportunity to be heard. If the court
determines after a hearing that the person during the period of his or her
probation and during the period of time prior to his or her application to the
court under this division has not been guilty of any serious or repeated
violation of the conditions of his or her probation, it shall order the
expungement.
   (i)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, any person
prosecuted for a violation of §
333.01(c) whose case is disposed of pursuant to the provisions of this section
shall be liable for any court costs assessable against a person convicted of a
violation of §
333.01(i). Payment of such costs may be made a condition of probation. The
costs assessed pursuant to this division (i), whether as a term of probation or
not, shall be distributed as other court costs in accordance with, and W. Va.
Code Ch. 50, Art. 3, § 2, W. Va. Code Ch. 14-2A-4, W. Va. Code Ch. 30, Art. 29,
§ 4, W. Va. Code Ch. 62, Art. 5, §§ 2, 7, and 10.
§ 333.02 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (a)   Any person who drives any vehicle upon any street or highway, or upon
any residential street, or in any parking area, or upon the ways of any
institution of higher education, whether public or private, or upon the ways of
any state institution, or upon the property of any County Boards of Education,
or upon any property within the City Park and Public Recreation system
established by the Director of Recreation of the city pursuant to this Code in
willful and wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of
reckless driving.
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) above shall not apply to those areas
which have been temporarily closed for racing sport events or which may be set
aside by the Director of Recreation of the city within the City Park and
Recreation system for exclusive use by motorcycles or other recreational
vehicles.
   (c)   Every person convicted of reckless driving may be punished upon a
first conviction by imprisonment for a period of not less than five days nor
more than 90 days, or by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500, or by
both such fine and imprisonment, and on a second or subsequent conviction may
be punished by imprisonment for not less than ten days nor more than six
months, or by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or by both such
fines and imprisonment.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (e) below, any person
convicted of a violation of division (a) above who in doing so proximately
causes another to suffer serious bodily injury shall, upon conviction, be
confined in jail not less than ten days nor more than six months or fined not
less than $50 nor more than $1,000, or both.
   (e)   For purposes of division (d) above, serious bodily injury means bodily
injury which creates a substantial risk of death, which causes serious or
prolonged disfigurement, prolonged impairment of health, or prolonged loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily organ.
§ 333.03 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (a)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in this state is deemed to have
given his or her consent by the operation of the motor vehicle to a preliminary
breath analysis and a secondary chemical test of either his or her blood,
breath, or urine for the purposes of determining the alcoholic content of his
or her blood.
   (b)    A preliminary breath analysis may be administered in accordance with
the provisions of section five of this article whenever a law enforcement
officer has reasonable cause to believe a person has committed an offense
prohibited by §
333.01 or by an ordinance of a municipality of this state which has the same
elements as an offense described in §
333.01.
   (c)   A secondary test of blood, breath, or urine is incidental to a lawful
arrest and is to be administered at the direction of the arresting law
enforcement officer having reasonable grounds to believe the person has
committed an offense prohibited by §
333.01 or by an ordinance of a municipality of this state which has the same
elements as an offense described in §
333.01.
   (d)    The law enforcement agency that employs the law enforcement officer
shall designate which type of secondary test is to be administered; provided,
that if the test designated is a blood test and the person arrested refuses to
submit to the blood test, then the law enforcement officer making the arrest
shall designate either a breath or urine test to be administered.
Notwithstanding the provisions of §
333.06, the refusal to submit to a blood test only may not result in the
revocation of the arrested person’s license to operate a motor vehicle in this
state.
   (e)   Any person to whom a preliminary breath test is administered who is
then arrested shall be given a written statement advising him or her that his
or her refusal to submit to the secondary chemical test pursuant to division
(d) hereof, will result in the revocation of his or her license to operate a
motor vehicle in this state for a period of at least one year and up to life.
   (f)   Any law enforcement officer who has been properly trained in the
administration of any secondary chemical test authorized by this article,
including, but not limited to, certification by the division of health in the
operation of any equipment required for the collection and analysis of a breath
sample, may conduct the test at any location in the county wherein the arrest
is made; provided, that the law enforcement officer may conduct the test at the
nearest available properly functioning secondary chemical testing device
located outside the county in which the arrest was made, if there is no
properly functioning secondary chemical testing device located within the
county the arrest was made or there is no magistrate available within the
county the arrest was made for the arraignment of the person arrested. A law
enforcement officer who is directing that a secondary chemical test be
conducted has the authority to transport the person arrested to where the
secondary chemical testing device is located.
   (g)    If the arresting officer lacks proper training in the administration
of a secondary chemical test, then any other law enforcement officer who has
received training in the administration of the secondary chemical test to be
administered may, upon the request of the arresting law enforcement officer and
in his or her presence, conduct the secondary test. The results of a test
conducted pursuant to this division may be used in evidence to the same extent
and in the same manner as if the test had been conducted by the arresting law
enforcement officer.
   (h)   Only the person actually administering or conducting a test conducted
pursuant to this article is competent to testify as to the results and the
veracity of the test.
   (i)    For the purpose of this article, the term LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or
POLICE OFFICER means:
      (1)    Any member of the West Virginia State Police;
      (2)    Any sheriff and any deputy sheriff of any county;
      (3)    Any member of a police department in any municipality as defined
in W. Va. Code 8-1-2;
      (4)    Any conservation officer of the Division of Natural Resources; and
      (5)    Any special police officer appointed by the governor pursuant to
the provisions of W. Va. Code 61-3-41 who has completed the course of
instruction at a law enforcement training academy as provided for under the
provisions of W. Va Code 30-29-9.
   (j)   A law enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to believe that
person has committed an offense prohibited by W. Va. Code 20-7-18, relating to
the operation of a motorboat, jet ski, or other motorized vessel, shall follow
the provisions of this section in administering, or causing to be administered,
a preliminary breath analysis and the secondary chemical test of the accused
person’s blood, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining alcohol content
of his or her blood.
§ 333.04 PRELIMINARY BREATH ANALYSIS.
   When a law enforcement officer of this city has reason to believe a person
has committed an offense prohibited by §
333.01, the law enforcement officer may require such person to submit to a
preliminary breath analysis for the purpose of determining such person’s blood
alcohol content. Such breath analysis must be administered as soon as possible
after the law enforcement officer has a reasonable belief that the person has
been driving while under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or
drugs. Any preliminary breath analysis required under this section must be
administered with a device and in a manner approved by the Department of Health
for that purpose. The results of a preliminary breath analysis shall be used
solely for the purpose of guiding the officer in deciding whether an arrest
should be made. When a driver is arrested following a preliminary breath
analysis, the tests as hereinafter provided in this article shall be
administered in accordance with the provisions thereof.
§ 333.05 ADMINISTRATION OF TEST.
   Only a doctor of medicine or osteopathy, or registered nurse, or trained
medical technician at the place of his or her employment, acting at the request
and direction of the arresting law enforcement officer, may withdraw blood for
the purpose of determining the alcoholic content thereof. These limitations
shall not apply to the taking of a breath test or a urine specimen. In
withdrawing blood for the purpose of determining the alcoholic content thereof,
only a previously unused and sterile needle and sterile vessel may be utilized
and the withdrawal shall otherwise be in strict accord with accepted medical
practices. A nonalcoholic antiseptic shall be used for cleansing the skin prior
to venipuncture. The person tested may, at his or her own expense, have a
doctor of medicine or osteopathy, or registered nurse, or trained medical
technician at the place of his or her employment, of his or her own choosing,
administer a chemical test in addition to the test administered at the
direction of the law enforcement officer. Upon the request of the person who is
tested, full information concerning the test taken at the direction of the law
enforcement officer shall be made available to him or her. No person who
administers any such test upon the request of a law enforcement officer as
herein defined, no hospital in or with which such person is employed or is
otherwise associated or in which such test is administered, and no other
person, firm, or corporation by whom or with which such person is employed or
is in any way associated shall be in anywise criminally liable for the
administration of such test, or civilly liable in damages to the person tested
unless for gross negligence or willful or wanton injury.
§ 333.06 REFUSAL TO SUBMIT TO TESTS.
   (a)   (1)   If any person under arrest as specified in §
333.03 refuses to submit to any secondary chemical test, the tests shall not be
given; provided, that prior to the refusal, the person is given an oral warning
and a written statement advising him or her that his or her refusal to submit
to the secondary test finally designated will result in the revocation of his
or her license to operate a motor vehicle in this state for a period of at
least 45 days and up to life; and that after 15 minutes following the warnings
the refusal is considered final. The arresting officer after that period of
time expires has no further duty to provide the person with an opportunity to
take the secondary test. The officer shall, within 48 hours of the refusal,
sign and submit to the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles a written statement of
the officer that:
         A.   He or she had reasonable grounds to believe the person had been
driving a motor vehicle in this state while under the influence of alcohol,
controlled substances, or drugs;
         B.   The person was lawfully placed under arrest for an offense
relating to driving a motor vehicle in this state while under the influence of
alcohol, controlled substances, or drugs;
         C.   The person refused to submit to the secondary chemical test
finally designated in the manner provided in §
333.03; and
         D.   The person was given a written statement advising him or her that
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle in this state would be revoked
for a period of at least 45 days and up to life if he or she refused to submit
to the secondary test finally designated in the manner provided in §
333.03. The signing of the statement required to be signed by this section
constitutes an oath or affirmation by the person signing the statement that the
statements contained in the statement are true and that any copy filed is a
true copy. The statement shall contain upon its face a warning to the officer
signing that to willfully sign a statement containing false information
concerning any matter or thing, material or not material, is false swearing and
is a misdemeanor. Upon receiving the statement, the Commissioner shall make and
enter an order revoking the person’s license to operate a motor vehicle in this
state for the period prescribed by this section.
      (2)   For the first refusal to submit to the designated secondary
chemical test, the Commissioner shall make and enter an order revoking the
person’s license to operate a motor vehicle in this state for a period of one
year or 45 days, with an additional one year of participation in the Motor
Vehicle Alcohol Test and Lock Program in accordance with the provisions of W.
Va. Code 17C-5A-3a; provided, that a person revoked for driving while under the
influence of drugs is not eligible to participate in the Motor Vehicle Test and
Lock Program. The application for participation in the Motor Vehicle Alcohol
Test and Lock Program shall be considered to be a waiver of the hearing
provided in W. Va. Code 17C-5A-3a. If the Commissioner has previously revoked
the person’s license under the provisions of this section, the Commissioner
shall, for the refusal to submit to the designated secondary chemical test,
make and enter an order revoking the person’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in this state for a period of ten years; provided, however, that the
license may be reissued in five years in accordance with the provisions of W.
Va. Code 17C-5A-3a. If the Commissioner has previously revoked the person’s
license more than once under the provisions of this section, the Commissioner
shall, for the refusal to submit to the designated secondary chemical test,
make and enter an order revoking the person’s license to operate a motor
vehicle in this state for a period of life. A copy of each order shall be
forwarded to the person by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall contain the reasons for the revocation and shall specify
the revocation period imposed pursuant to this section. A revocation shall not
become effective until ten days after receipt of the copy of the order. Any
person who is unconscious or who is otherwise in a condition rendering him or
her incapable of refusal shall be considered not to have withdrawn his or her
consent for a test of his or her blood, breath, or urine as provided in §
333.04 and the test may be administered although the person is not informed
that his or her failure to submit to the test will result in the revocation of
his or her license to operate a motor vehicle in this state for the period
provided for in this section. A revocation under this section shall run
concurrently with the period of any suspension or revocation imposed in
accordance with other provisions of this code and growing out of the same
incident which gave rise to the arrest for driving a motor vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or drugs and the subsequent
refusal to undergo the test finally designated in accordance with the
provisions of W. Va. Code 17C-5A-4.
   (b)   For the purposes of this section, where reference is made to previous
suspensions or revocations under this section, the following types of
suspensions or revocations shall also be regarded as suspensions or revocations
under this section:
      (1)   Any suspension or revocation on the basis of a conviction under a
municipal ordinance of another state or a statute of the United States or of
any other state of an offense which has the same elements as an offense
described in W. Va. Code 17C-5A-2 for conduct which occurred on or after June
10, 1983; and
      (2)   Any revocation under the provisions of W. Va. Code 17C-5A-1 or -
2 for conduct which occurred on or after June 10, 1983.
   (c)   A person whose license to operate a motor vehicle in this state has
been revoked shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard, in accordance with
the provisions of W. Va. Code 17C-5A-2.
§ 333.07 INTERPRETATION AND USE OF CHEMICAL TEST.
   (a)   Upon trial for the offense of driving a motor vehicle in this state
while under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or drugs, or upon
the trial of any civil or criminal action arising out of acts alleged to have
been committed by any person driving a motor vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol, controlled substances, or drugs, evidence of the amount of alcohol
in the person’s blood at the time of the arrest or of the acts alleged, as
shown by a chemical analysis of his or her blood, breath, or urine, is
admissible, if the sample or specimen was taken within two hours from and after
the time of arrest or of the acts alleged. The evidence gives rise to the
following presumptions or has the following effect:
      (1)   Evidence that there was, at that time, 0.05% or less, by weight, of
alcohol in his or her blood, is prima facie evidence that the person was not
under the influence of alcohol;
      (2)   Evidence that there was, at that time, more than 0.05% and less
than 0.08%, by weight, of alcohol in the person’s blood is relevant evidence,
but it is not to be given prima facie effect in indicating whether the person
was under the influence of alcohol;
      (3)   Evidence that there was, at that time, 0.08% or more, by weight, of
alcohol in his or her blood, shall be admitted as prima facie evidence that the
person was under the influence of alcohol.
   (b)   A determination of the percent, by weight, of alcohol in the blood
shall be based upon a formula of:
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 cubic centimeters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   (c)   A chemical analysis of a person’s blood, breath, or urine, in order to
give rise to the presumptions or to have the effect provided for in division
(a) hereof, must be performed in accordance with methods and standards approved
by the state’s Division of Health. A chemical analysis of blood or urine to
determine the alcohol content of blood shall be conducted by a qualified
laboratory or by the state police scientific laboratory of the Criminal
Identification Bureau of the West Virginia State Police.
   (d)   The provisions of this article do not limit the introduction in any
administrative or judicial proceeding of any other competent evidence bearing
on the question of whether the person was under the influence of alcohol,
controlled substances, or drugs.
§ 333.08 RIGHT TO DEMAND TEST.
   Any person lawfully arrested for driving a motor vehicle on the public
streets or highways of this city while under the influence of alcohol,
controlled substances, or drugs and who is not tested at the direction of the
arresting officer under the provisions of §§
333.03 et seq., or who is lawfully arrested as aforesaid by any other police/
law enforcement officer, shall have the right to demand that a sample or
specimen of his or her blood, breath, or urine be taken within two hours from
and after the time of arrest, and that a chemical test thereof be made. The
analysis disclosed by such chemical test shall be made available to such
arrested person forthwith upon demand.
§ 333.09 FEE.
   A reasonable fee shall be allowed to the person withdrawing a blood sample
or administering a urine test at the request and direction of a law enforcement
officer in accordance with the provisions of this article. If the person whose
blood sample was withdrawn or whose urine was tested was arrested and charged
with a violation of §
333.02, the county having venue of such charge shall pay said fee, and if said
person is subsequently convicted of such charge, such fee shall be taxed as a
part of the costs of the criminal proceeding and shall be paid, notwithstanding
any other provision of this code to the contrary, into the General Fund of said
county. If the person whose blood sample was withdrawn or whose urine was
tested was arrested and charged with a violation of a similar ordinance of any
municipality, said municipality shall pay said fee, and if said person is
subsequently convicted of such charge, such fee shall be taxed as a part of the
costs of the criminal proceeding and shall be paid, notwithstanding any other
provision of this code to the contrary, into the General Fund of said
municipality.
§ 333.10 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without
exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a weaving or
zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe operation or
in compliance with law.
   (c)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or motorcycle without giving
his or her full-time and attention to the operation of such vehicle.
ARTICLE 334: OPEN CONTAINER LAW
Section
   
334.01   Definitions
   
334.02   Possession of an open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger
area of a motor vehicle
   
334.03   Procedure on arrest
 
   
334.99   Penalty
§ 334.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Includes:
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor as defined in W. Va. Code 60-1-5; and
      (2)   Non-intoxicating beer as defined in W. Va. Code 11-16-3.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and
manufactured primarily for use on public highways, but does not include a
vehicle operated solely on a rail or rails.
   OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can, or other receptacle
that:
      (1)   Contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (2)   A.   Is open or has a broken seal; or
         B.   Has had its contents partially removed.
   PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. The area designed to seat the driver and
passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily
accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions. For
purposes of this article, the PASSENGER AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE does not
include:
      (1)   A.   A locked glove compartment; or
         B.   A fixed center console or other similar fixed compartment that is
locked;
      (2)   In a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a trunk:
         A.   The area behind the last upright seat; or
         B.   An area not normally occupied by the driver or a passenger; or
      (3)   In a pickup truck that has no trunk, camper top, or separate
enclosed area other than the cab of the truck, in the area behind the front
seat of the truck in a locked case or container located so as to not be readily
accessible to the driver or passengers while in their seating positions.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY OR RIGHT-OF-WAY OF A PUBLIC HIGHWAY. The entire width between
the immediately adjacent to the boundary lines of every way that is publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5D-2)
§ 334.02 POSSESSION OF AN OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER IN THE PASSENGER
AREA OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
consume any alcoholic beverage in the passenger area of a motor vehicle located
on a public highway or right-of-way of a public highway in this municipality,
whether the vehicle is in motion or at rest.
   (b)   It is unlawful for the operator or a passenger of a motor vehicle to
knowingly possess any open alcoholic beverage container in the passenger area
of any motor vehicle that is located on a public highway or right-of-way of a
public highway in this municipality, whether the vehicle is in motion or at
rest. Possession by a person of one or more open containers in a single
criminal occurrence is a single offense.
   (c)   The provisions of this section are not applicable to a passenger:
      (1)   In the passenger area of a motor vehicle designed, maintained, or
used primarily for the transportation of persons for compensation including,
but not limited to, a bus, taxicab, or limousine; or
      (2)   In the living quarters of a motorized or nonmotorized house coach,
house trailer, motor home, or self-contained camper.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5D-3)
§ 334.03 PROCEDURE ON ARREST.
   If a person is arrested for an offense under the provisions of this article,
unless the provisions of W. Va. Code 17C-19-3 require that the person arrested
be taken immediately before a magistrate for an offense described in that
section, the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-19 regarding the issuance of a
traffic citation containing a notice to appear applies.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5D-4)
§ 334.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $100.
(W. Va. Code 17C-5D-3)
ARTICLE 335: SPEED RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
335.01   Maximum speed limits
   
335.02   Slow speed
   
335.03   Special speed limitations
   
335.04   Racing on streets and highways prohibited
   
335.05   Prima facie evidence of speed by radar
   
335.06   Special speed limitations when meeting or overtaking waste service
vehicles
 
   
335.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to regulate speed, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8 and 17C-6-3
   Minimum speed regulations, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-3(a)
   Special speed limitations, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-4 et seq.
   Use of radar, see W. Va. Code 17C-6-7
§ 335.01 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (a)   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the existing conditions and the
actual and potential hazards. In every event speed shall be so controlled as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle, or other
conveyance on or entering the streets and highways in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (b)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (a) above, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of
the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter authorized
is lawful, but any speed in excess of the limits specified below in this
division or established as hereinafter authorized is unlawful. The following
speed limits apply:
      (1)   Fifteen mph in a school zone during school recess or while children
are going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours. A school zone
is all school property including school grounds and any street or highway
abutting such school grounds and extending 125 feet along such street or
highway from the school grounds and, in the case of school property not
abutting a street or highway but accessed through a right-of-way granted for
entrance to school property, a school zone established by an engineering study
conducted by the Division of Highways is all school property, including school
grounds and any property within the access right-of-way, and extending 125 feet
along the street or highway from the entrance to the access right-of-way. The
speed restriction does not apply to vehicles traveling on a controlled-access
highway which is separated from the school or school grounds by a fence or
barrier approved by the Division of Highways;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in any business or residence district; and
      (3)   Fifty-five mph on open country highways, except as otherwise
provided by this article. The speeds set forth in this section may be altered
as authorized in W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-6.
   (c)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements of
division (a) above, drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway,
and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or
by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (d)   The speed limit on controlled-access highways and interstate highways,
where no special hazard exists that requires a lower speed, shall be not less
than 55 mph and the speed limits specified in division (b) above do not apply.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-1)
§ 335.02 SLOW SPEED.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-3a(a))
§ 335.03 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Subject to all other speed restrictions of this Traffic Code, no
person shall drive a vehicle not designed for carrying passengers and equipped
with pneumatic tires at a speed in excess of:
      (1)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph in any residence district;
      (3)   Forty mph on open country highway; or
      (4)   Trucks licensed at 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight or less shall
be permitted the same speed as passenger cars.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-4)
   (b)   No person shall drive any vehicle equipped with other than pneumatic
tires at a speed greater than a maximum of ten mph.
   (c)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a street or highway at a speed which is
greater than the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such
bridge or structure, when such structure is so signposted.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-5)
§ 335.04 RACING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage in, or aid or abet by serving as lookout or timer or
in any other capacity whatever, any speed race, as defined herein, on any
public street or highway in this municipality. For the purposes of this
section, SPEED RACE means:
   (a)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
with another motor vehicle or motor vehicles;
   (b)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed acceleration competition
against time; or
   (c)   The operation of a motor vehicle in speed competition with another
motor vehicle or motor vehicles where the speed exceeds the lawful speed limit.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-8(a))
§ 335.05 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF SPEED BY RADAR.
   The speed of a motor vehicle may be proved by evidence obtained by use of
any device designed to measure and indicate or record the speed of a moving
object by means of microwaves or reflected light, when such evidence is
obtained by members of the Police Department. The evidence so obtained shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-7)
§ 335.06 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITATIONS WHEN MEETING OR OVERTAKING WASTE SERVICE
VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle and meet or overtake from either
direction a stopped waste service vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, WASTE SERVICE VEHICLE means any garbage
collection vehicle, including a vehicle collecting recyclables or yard waste,
which is used for curbside collection, makes frequent stops, and is not fully
automated.
   (c)   The speed limitation set forth in division (a) above applies only
under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The waste service vehicle is identifiable as a waste service
vehicle based on the vehicle configuration or markings on the vehicle;
      (2)   The waste service vehicle operator is giving a visual signal by
means of a stationary sign to warn of the presence of workers or must use
flashing lights as permitted in this code to caution other drivers; and
      (3)   The waste service vehicle is not located on a private driveway,
controlled access highway, interstate highway, turnpike, or road or highway
with a centerline and more than two lanes.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-11)
§ 335.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (b)   Speeding.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this division (b) hereof, any person
who violates the provisions of §
335.01 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and, upon a third or
subsequent conviction within two years thereafter, shall be fined not more than
$500; provided, that if such third or subsequent conviction is based upon a
violation of the provisions of §
335.01 where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more, then the
person shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
335.01(b)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; provided,
that if such conviction is based upon a violation of the provisions of §
335.01(b)(1) where the offender exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more in
the presence of one or more children, then the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both;
provided, that if the signage required by §
335.01(b)(1) is not present in the school zone at the time of the violation,
then any person who violates said provision shall be fined not more than $25.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-1)
   (c)   Street racing. Whoever violates §
335.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100; for a second
offense fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment for not
less than six days nor more than 30 days, or both; and for a third and each
subsequent offense fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both. For the purposes of this
section, a forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure such person’s
appearance in court, which forfeiture has not been vacated, shall be equivalent
to a final conviction. If at the time of any violation of the provisions of §
335.04 by any person as an operator of a motor vehicle, such person was not
entitled to operate a motor vehicle in this state because his or her operator’s
or chauffeur’s license, or privilege to drive in this state if such person be a
non-resident, had earlier been suspended or removed, then in addition to the
penalties provided for in this section, the provisions of §
351.10 shall be applicable.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-8)
   (d)   Waste service vehicles. Any person who violates the provisions of §
335.06 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $300. If the person
convicted of violating §
335.06 exceeded the speed limit by 15 mph or more or caused serious injury or
death to a service vehicle worker, then the person shall be fined not less than
$300 nor more than $1,000 or confined in jail for not more than 30 days, or
both.
(W. Va. Code 17C-6-11)
ARTICLE 337: DRIVING ON RIGHT; PASSING
Section
   
337.01   Driving upon right side of roadway; exceptions
   
337.02   Passing to right when proceeding in opposite directions
   
337.03   Overtaking, passing to left; driver’s duties
   
337.04   Overtaking and passing upon right
   
337.05   Overtaking, passing to left of center
   
337.06   Additional restrictions on driving upon left side of roadway
   
337.07   Hazardous or no passing zones.
   
337.08   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
337.09   Driving in marked lanes or continuous lines of traffic
   
337.10   Following too closely
   
337.11   Driving upon divided roadways
   
337.12   Entering and exiting controlled-access highway
 
   
337.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to establish one-way streets, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8(a)(4)
                                                                                                
§ 337.01 DRIVING UPON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (b)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-1)
§ 337.02 PASSING TO RIGHT WHEN PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and, upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver, shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main-traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-2)
§ 337.03 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding
in the same direction subject to these limitations, exceptions, and special
rules hereinafter stated.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall give an audible signal and pass to the left of the
overtaken vehicle at a safe distance and may not again drive to the right side
of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle traveling in the same
direction shall pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than
three feet at a careful and reduced speed, and may not again drive to the right
side of the roadway until safely clear of the overtaken bicycle.
   (c)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and may not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-3)
§ 337.04 OVERTAKING AND PASSING UPON RIGHT.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; or
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-4)
§ 337.05 OVERTAKING, PASSING TO LEFT OF CENTER.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless
such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every
event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the roadway
before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-5)
§ 337.06 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (a)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the street
or highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection;
or
      (3)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (b)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-6)
§ 337.07 HAZARDOUS OR NO PASSING ZONES.
   When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily
observant person indicating that overtaking and passing or driving to the left
of the roadway would be especially hazardous, every driver of a vehicle shall
obey the directions thereof.
§ 337.08 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (a)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (b)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
to the right of such island.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-8(b), (c))
§ 337.09 DRIVING IN MARKED LANES OR CONTINUOUS LINES OF TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others consistent
herewith, shall apply.
   (a)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (b)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane which is clearly marked as a left turn lane except
in preparation for a left turn or where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding and is signposted to give notice of such allocation.
   (c)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-9)
§ 337.10 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (a)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street or highway.
   (b)   No operator of any motor truck, registered for a gross weight of more
than 8,000 pounds, bus, special mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle operating upon any roadway outside of a business or residence
district, shall follow within 200 feet of another motor truck, bus, special
mobile equipment, or any motor vehicle drawing another vehicle; provided, that
this provision shall not be construed to:
      (1)   Prevent overtaking and passing;
      (2)   Apply upon any lane specially designated for the use of motor
trucks or combinations of vehicles, or within any section of a roadway posted
or marked as a “no-passing zone”;
      (3)   Apply to any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the
United States or of this state; and
      (4)   Apply to funeral processions.
   (c)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any convoy of vehicles of the military service of the United States
or of this state.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-10)
§ 337.11 DRIVING UPON DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   Whenever any street or highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right hand roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except through
an opening in such physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-11)
§ 337.12 ENTERING AND EXITING CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(W. Va. Code 17C-7-12)
§ 337.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
ARTICLE 339: TURNING AND STARTING; SIGNALS
Section
   
339.01   Conformity with provisions required
   
339.02   Right turns
   
339.03   Left turns on two-way roadways
   
339.04   Left turns on other than two-way roadways
   
339.05   Specified turns at intersections
   
339.06   “U” turns restricted
   
339.07   Starting vehicle
   
339.08   Signals before changing course, turning, or stopping
   
339.09   Signals to be given by hand and arm or signal device
   
339.10   Hand and arm signals
 
   
339.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to regulate the turning of vehicles, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8(a)(9)
   Authority to specify different courses for turns, see W. Va. Code 17C-8-5
§ 339.01 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
provided in this article.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-1)
§ 339.02 RIGHT TURNS.
   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-2)
§ 339.03 LEFT TURNS ON TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   (a)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection, and after entering the intersection the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered.
   (b)   Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that portion of
the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-3)
§ 339.04 LEFT TURNS ON OTHER THAN TWO-WAY ROADWAYS.
   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on one or
more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-4)
§ 339.05 SPECIFIED TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Council or other designated traffic authority may cause markers, buttons, or
signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and
direct that a different course from that specified in this article be traveled
by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when markers, buttons, or signs are
so placed, no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such markers, buttons, or signs.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-5)
§ 339.06 “U” TURNS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
upon any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where
such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-6)
   (b)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction
within an intersection, or upon any street in a business district, or upon a
freeway, expressway, or controlled-access highway, or where authorized signs
are erected to prohibit such movement, or at any other location unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
§ 339.07 STARTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-7)
§ 339.08 SIGNALS BEFORE CHANGING COURSE, TURNING, OR STOPPING.
   (a)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required in §§
339.02 to
339.05, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise
turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person shall so
turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by such movement.
   (b)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
   (c)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-8)
§ 339.09 SIGNALS TO BE GIVEN BY HAND AND ARM OR SIGNAL DEVICE.
   Any stop or turn signal, when required herein, shall be given either by
means of the hand and arm or by a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal
device, but when a vehicle is so constructed or loaded that hand-and-arm signal
would not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle, then such
signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or signal device.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-9)
§ 339.10 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (a)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
   (b)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
   (c)   Stop or decrease speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(W. Va. Code 17C-8-10)
§ 339.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
ARTICLE 341: RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
341.01   Right-of-way at intersections
   
341.02   Right-of-way when turning left
   
341.03   Right-of-way at through street or highway or stop intersections
   
341.04   Driving onto roadway from private road or driveway; duty to yield
   
341.05   Right-of-way of emergency vehicle
   
341.06   Turning into private driveway, alley, or building
 
   
341.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to designate through streets and stop intersections, see W. Va.
Code 17C-2-8(a)(6), 17C-12-5
§ 341.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
street or highway.
   (b)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from a different street or
highway at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (c)   The right-of-way rules declared in divisions (a) and (b) hereof are
modified at through streets or highways and otherwise as hereinafter stated in
this article.
(W. Va. Code 17C-9-1)
§ 341.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but such driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required by this Traffic Code, may make such left turn and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection from the
opposite direction shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicles making the left
turn.
(W. Va. Code 17C-9-2)
§ 341.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY OR STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by §
343.01 at the entrance to a through street or highway and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection from such
through streets or highways, or which are approaching so closely on such
through street or highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but the driver
having so yielded may proceed.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle shall likewise stop in obedience to a stop
sign as required herein at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto although not a part of a through street or highway
and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard, but may then proceed.
(W. Va. Code 17C-9-3)
§ 341.04 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; DUTY TO YIELD.
   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a street or highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-9-4)
§ 341.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (a)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one flashing lighted lamp of a color authorized by §
345.18, which is visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of
500 feet to the front of such vehicle other than a police vehicle when operated
as an authorized emergency vehicle, and when the driver is giving audible
signal by siren, exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the roadway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (b)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-9-5)
§ 341.06 TURNING INTO PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, ALLEY, OR BUILDING.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn into a private road or
driveway, alley, or building from a public street or highway shall be governed
by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway;
      (2)   Upon a roadway where traffic is proceeding in opposite directions,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made from that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof; and
      (3)   Upon a roadway where traffic is restricted to one direction,
approach for a left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable
to the left-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle entering a private
road or driveway, alley, or building to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully using the sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
private road, driveway, or building.
§ 341.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$200; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not
more than $300; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code 17C-9-6)
ARTICLE 343: SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
Section
   
343.01   Through streets and stop intersections
   
343.02   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway; stopping at
sidewalk
   
343.03   Stopping for school bus; signs and warning lights; sale of school bus
   
343.04   Stopping for passenger van; signs and warning lights
   
343.05   Obstructing inter section or crosswalk
 
   
343.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to establish through streets and stop intersections, see W. Va.
Code 17C-2-8(a)(6)
§ 343.01 THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (a)   Council or other designated traffic authority may designate through
streets or highways and erect stop signs at specified entrances thereto or may
designate any intersection as a stop intersection and erect like signs at one
or more entrances to such intersection.
   (b)   Every such sign shall bear the word “Stop” in letters not less than
six inches in height and such sign shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by
steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed floodlight projected on
the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the
sign.
   (c)   Every stop sign shall be erected as near as practicable to the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the near side of the roadway.
   (d)   Every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting street or highway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting street or highway before
entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(W. Va. Code 17C-12-5)
§ 343.02 DRIVING ONTO ROADWAY FROM PLACE OTHER THAN ROADWAY; STOPPING AT
SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from any alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or private driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-12-6)
§ 343.03 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS; SALE OF SCHOOL BUS.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school children, shall stop the vehicle before reaching such
school bus when there is in operation on such school bus flashing warning
signal lights, as referred to in W. Va. Code 17C-12-8, and such driver shall
not proceed until such school bus resumes motion, or is signaled by the school
bus driver to proceed, or the visual signals are no longer actuated. This
section applies wherever the school bus is receiving or discharging children,
including, but not limited to, any street, highway, parking lot, private road,
or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled access
highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on a
different roadway or adjacent to such highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
   (b)   Where the actual identity of the operator of a motor vehicle operated
in violation of division (a) above is unknown but the license plate number of
the motor vehicle is known, it may be inferred that the operator was an owner
or lessee of the motor vehicle for purposes of the probable cause
determination. Where there is more than one registered owner or lessee, the
inference created by this division shall apply to the first listed owner or
lessee as found on the motor vehicle registration; provided, that a person
charged with a violation of division (a) above under the provisions of this
division where the sole evidence against the owner or lessee is the presence of
the vehicle at the scene at the time of the offense shall only be subject to
the applicable fine set forth in §
343.99(c).
   (c)   Service of process of a complaint issued pursuant to division (b)
above shall be effected consistent with West Virginia Rule of Criminal
Procedure 4.
   (d)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the words
“school bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. When a contract
school bus is being operated upon a street or highway for purposes other than
the actual transportation of children either to or from school, all markings
thereon indicating “school bus” shall be covered or concealed. Any school bus
sold or transferred to another owner by a county board of education, agency, or
individual, shall have all flashing warning lights disconnected and all
lettering removed or permanently obscured, except when sold or transferred for
the transportation of school children.
(W. Va. Code 17C-12-7)
§ 343.04 STOPPING FOR PASSENGER VAN; SIGNS AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   (a)   Every passenger van used for the transportation of children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof a plainly visible sign containing the warning
“Caution: Loading and Unloading Passengers” in letters not less than six inches
in height. Every such passenger van shall be equipped with either flashing
warning signal lights as are contemplated and referred to in W. Va. Code 17C-
12-8, or a red caution flag which the driver or some other adult must use by
exiting the passenger van and displaying while assisting in the loading or
unloading of passengers. Such vehicles may also be equipped with a white
flashing strobotron warning light that meets the requirements set forth in W.
Va. Code 17C-15-26(e).
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle upon meeting or overtaking from any direction
any passenger van which has stopped for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers shall stop his or her vehicle before reaching the passenger van,
when there is in operation on the passenger van flashing warning signal lights
or when an adult is outside the passenger van with a red caution flag and
assisting with the loading or unloading of passengers. The driver of a vehicle
may not proceed until he or she is signaled by the passenger van driver to
proceed, the passenger van flashing signal lights are no longer actuated, or
the passenger resumes motion. This section applies whenever the passenger van
is loading or unloading children on any street, highway, parking lot, private
road, or driveway; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a controlled
access highway need not stop upon meeting or passing a passenger van which is
on a different roadway or adjacent to the highway and where pedestrians are not
permitted to cross the roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17-12-7a)
§ 343.05 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
§ 343.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General penalty. See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Driving onto roadway from place other than roadway. Whoever violates §
343.02 shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second conviction within one
year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and upon a third or
subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
   (c)   Stopping for school bus. Any driver acting in violation of §
343.03(a) for a first offense, shall be fined not less than $500 or more than
$1,000, or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined.
Upon conviction of a second violation of §
343.03(a), the driver shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500,
or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both fined and confined. Upon
conviction of a third or subsequent violation of §
343.03(a), the driver shall be fined $2,000 and confined not less than 48 hours
in jail but not more than 30 days.
   (d)   Stopping for passenger van. Any driver acting in violation of §
343.04(b) shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both. If the identity of the driver cannot be
ascertained, then any such owner or lessee of the vehicle in violation of §
343.04(b) shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100; provided,
however, that such conviction shall not subject such owner or lessee to further
administrative or other penalties for such offense, notwithstanding other
provisions of this Traffic Code to the contrary.
ARTICLE 345: SAFETY AND EQUIPMENT
Section
   
345.01   Driving unsafe vehicles; application; farm and road equipment
exceptions
   
345.02   When lighted lights required
   
345.03   Measurement of distances and heights
   
345.04   Headlights on motor vehicles and motorcycles
   
345.05   Tail light; illumination of rear license plate
   
345.06   Red light or red flag on extended loads
   
345.07   Lights on parked or stopped vehicles
   
345.08   Lights on slow-moving vehicles
   
345.09   Spotlights and auxiliary lights
   
345.10   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
345.11   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights; flashing hazard lights
   
345.12   Multiple-beam road-lighting equipment requirements
   
345.13   Use of headlight beams
   
345.14   Single-beam road-lighting equipment
   
345.15   Lights on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds
   
345.16   Alternate road-lighting equipment
   
345.17   Number of driving lights required or permitted
   
345.18   Special restrictions on lights
   
345.19   Motor vehicle or motorcycle brakes
   
345.20   Inspection of brakes on motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds
   
345.21   Horn, siren, and theft alarm signal
   
345.22   Muffler; muffler cutout; excessive smoke, gas, or noise
   
345.23   Rear-view mirror
   
345.24   Windshield to be unobstructed; windshield wiper
   
345.25   Tire equipment restrictions
   
345.26   Safety glass in motor vehicles
   
345.27   Vehicles transporting explosives
   
345.28   Video screens and monitors, television receivers in view of driver
prohibited
   
345.29   Safety equipment for motorcyclists, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles,
and mopeds
   
345.30   Certification labels on mopeds
   
345.31   Child passenger safety devices required; child safety seats and
booster seats
   
345.32   Certificate of inspection and approval
   
345.33   Alteration of motor vehicles; bumper height limits
   
345.34   Sun screening devices
   
345.35   Operation of vehicles with safety belts
 
   
345.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Bicycle equipment, see TRAF.
Art. 373
   Obscured light on vehicles in combination, see W. Va. Code 17C-15-13
   Warning devices for commercial vehicles, see W. Va. Code 17C-15-39
§ 345.01 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES; APPLICATION; FARM AND ROAD EQUIPMENT
EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall cause or knowingly
permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times equipped
with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment as
required in this article, or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this article, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any
act required under this article.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this article.
   (c)   The provisions of this article with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
farm tractors except as herein made applicable. Every farm tractor equipped
with an electric lighting system shall at all times mentioned in §
345.02 display a red tail lamp and either multiple-beam or single-beam head
lamps meeting the requirements of §
345.02.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-1)
§ 345.02 WHEN LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle other than a school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped operated upon a street or highway within this municipality at any time
from sunset to sunrise or during fog, smoke, rain, or other unfavorable
atmospheric conditions, or at any other time when there is not sufficient light
to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the street or highway at
a distance of 500 feet ahead shall display lighted head lamps and illuminating
devices as hereinafter respectively required for different classes of vehicles,
subject to exceptions with respect to parked vehicles as provided for in §
345.07(c). Every school bus, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall
display lighted head lamps at all times when upon the street or highway.
Lighted lamps and other lighting devices that consist of multiple light-
emitting diodes (LEDs) or other illuminating components that function as a
single lighting unit are deemed to be functional so long as at least 66% of the
LEDs or other illuminating components are functional; provided, that the
lighted lamps or lighting devices must still project sufficient illumination to
satisfy all other requirements contained in this article.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-2)
§ 345.03 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the distance from
which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible or within which
such lamps or devices shall be visible, such provisions shall apply during the
times stated in §
345.02 in respect to a vehicle without load when upon a straight, level,
unlighted street or highway under normal atmospheric conditions unless a
different time or condition is expressly stated.
   (b)   Whenever requirement is hereinafter declared as to the mounted height
of lamps or devices it shall mean from the center of such lamp or device to the
level ground upon which the vehicle stands when such vehicle is without a load.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-3)
§ 345.04 HEADLIGHTS ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped shall be equipped with at least two head lamps with at least one on each
side of the front of the motor vehicle, which head lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
   (b)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this article.
   (c)   Every head lamp upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle, and moped, shall be located at a height measured from the
center of the head lamp of not more than 54 inches nor less than 24 inches to
be measured as set forth in §
345.03.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-4)
§ 345.05 TAIL LIGHT; ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer, and any other vehicle
which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles, shall be equipped with
at least one tail lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as hereinbefore
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear, provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail lamp
on the rearmost vehicle need actually be seen from the distance specified.
   (b)   Every tail lamp upon every vehicle shall be located at a height of not
more than 60 inches nor less than 20 inches to be measured as set forth in §
345.03(b).
   (c)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and
render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp
or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear
registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps
or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-5)
§ 345.06 RED LIGHT OR RED FLAG ON EXTENDED LOADS.
   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified in §
345.02, a red light or lantern plainly visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the sides and rear. The red light or lantern required under this
section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle.
At any time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square and so hung that the entire area
is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-14)
§ 345.07 LIGHTS ON PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between sunset and sunrise and in the event there is sufficient light
to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street
or highway, no lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle.
   (b)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between
sunset and sunrise and there is not sufficient light to reveal any person or
object within a distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, such vehicle
so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one or more lamps meeting the
following requirements. At least one lamp shall display a white or amber light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle, and the same
lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and the location of such lamp
or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp or combination of lamps
meeting the requirements of this section is installed as near as practicable to
the side of the vehicle which is closest to passing traffic. The foregoing
provisions shall not apply to a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped.
   (c)   Any lighted head lamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-15)
§ 345.08 LIGHTS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES.
   All vehicles, including animal-drawn vehicles and including those referred
to in §
345.01(c) not hereinbefore specifically required to be equipped with lamps,
shall at the times specified in §
345.02 be equipped with at least one lighted lamp or lantern exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle and with
a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-16)
§ 345.09 SPOTLIGHTS AND AUXILIARY LIGHTS.
   For the purposes of this section, a lamp or lighting device meets the
requirements specified below so long as any portion of the illuminating surface
of the lamp or lighting device is within the specified range. All lamps and
lighting devices covered in this section may be installed so that the entire
lamp or lighting device exceeds 42 inches above the level surface upon which
the vehicle stands so long as such lamps or lighting devices are either covered
or dimmable.
   (a)   Spot lamps. Any motor vehicle except a public utility company
maintenance vehicle may be equipped with not more than one spot lamp and every
lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon approaching another vehicle
that no part of the high-intensity portion of the beam will be directed to the
left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle nor more than
100 feet ahead of the vehicle. A public utility company maintenance vehicle may
be equipped with more than one spot lamp but all lighted spot lamps shall be
aimed and used in conformity to the requirements of this division (a).
   (b)   Fog lamps. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two
fog lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more
than 30 inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands and so
aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of
the light to the left of the center of the vehicle shall at a distance of 25
feet ahead project higher than a level of four inches below the level of the
center of the lamp from which it comes.
   (c)   Auxiliary passing lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary passing lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 24 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every auxiliary passing lamp shall meet the requirements and
limitations set forth in this article.
   (d)   Auxiliary driving lamp. Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not
more than two auxiliary driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less
than 16 inches nor more than 42 inches above the level surface upon which the
vehicle stands and every such auxiliary driving lamp shall meet the
requirements and limitations set forth in this article.
   (e)   Roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device. Any motor vehicle may
be equipped with a roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device comprised of
multiple lamps; provided, that whenever the vehicle is operated or driven upon
any road or highway, the roof-mounted off-road light bar lighting device shall
be turned off while the vehicle is being operated on any road or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-17)
§ 345.10 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped, and when required under this
Traffic Code shall be equipped, with the following signal lamps or devices:
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or yellow light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp; and
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device capable of clearly
indicating any intention to turn either to the right or to the left and which
shall be visible both from the front and rear.
   (b)   A stop lamp shall be plainly visible and understandable from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear both during normal sunlight and at nighttime
and signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be visible and
understandable during daytime and nighttime from a distance of 100 feet both to
the front and rear. When a vehicle is equipped with a stop lamp or other signal
lamps, such lamp or lamps shall at all times be maintained in good working
condition. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a glaring or dazzling
light.
   (c)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated when in use at
the times mentioned in §
345.02.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-18)
§ 345.11 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS; FLASHING HAZARD LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or
fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one running-board
courtesy lamp on each side thereof which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (c)   All motor vehicles shall be equipped with a minimum of at least two
functioning back-up lamps either separately or in combination with other lamps,
unless the vehicle was originally equipped with one lamp. Any such back-up lamp
shall not be lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion. School buses
used for the transportation of school children in this municipality, whether
owned and operated by a county board of education or privately owned and
operated under contract with a county board of education, shall be equipped
with at least two back-up lamps, one on each side of the rear door, with white
lens or reflectors, capable of lighting the roadway and objects to the rear of
the bus for safe backing during darkness, and which, at the option of the
county board of education, may each provide 50 candlepower in illumination
intensity instead of 32 candlepower.
   (d)   Any vehicle may be equipped with lamps which may be used for the
purpose of warning the operators of other vehicles of the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching,
overtaking, or passing, and when so equipped may display such warning in
addition to any other warning signals required by this article. The lamps used
to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display simultaneously
flashing white or amber lights, or any shade of color between white and amber.
The lamps used to display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show
simultaneously flashing amber or red lights or any shade of color between amber
and red.
   (e)   Vehicles used by “rural mail carriers” in carrying or delivering mail
in rural areas may be equipped with amber flashing lights. Such lights shall be
on the front and rear of the vehicle and may be activated when the vehicle is
stopped or decreasing speed in order to stop in the course of carrying,
delivering, or picking up mail along the route.
   (f)   Vehicles used as the lead car in a funeral procession are hereby
authorized to be equipped with, but are not required to use, purple lamps or
purple flashing lights. Such lamps may be used for the purpose of warning the
operators of other vehicles of the presence of a vehicular traffic hazard
requiring the exercise of unusual care in approaching, overtaking, or passing a
funeral procession, and when so equipped may display such warning in addition
to any other warning signals required by this article. The lamps or flashing
lights used to display such warning to the front shall be mounted at the same
level and as widely spaced laterally as practicable and shall display
simultaneously either illuminating or flashing purple lights. The lamps used to
display such warning to the rear shall be mounted at the same level and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable, and shall show simultaneously flashing
or illuminated purple lights.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-19)
§ 345.12 MULTIPLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the head lamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combinations thereof on motor vehicles other
than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall be so arranged that the
driver may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   (a)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading;
   (b)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver; and
   (c)   Every new motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, registered in the state after January 1, 1952, which has multiple-
beam road-lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator, which
shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the head
lamps is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. Such indicator shall be so
designed and located that when lighted it will be readily visible without glare
to the driver of the vehicle so equipped.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-20)
§ 345.13 USE OF HEADLIGHT BEAMS.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder adjacent
thereto during the times specified in §
345.02, the driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam,
directed high enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following
requirements and limitations.
   (a)   Whenever a driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver. The lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam specified in §
345.12(b), shall be deemed to avoid glare at all times regardless of road
contour and loading.
   (b)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle follows another vehicle within 200
feet to the rear, except when engaged in the act of overtaking and passing,
such driver shall use a distribution of light permissible under this Traffic
Code other than the uppermost distribution of light specified in §
345.12(a).
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-21)
§ 345.14 SINGLE-BEAM ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Head lamps arranged to provide a single distribution of light shall be
permitted on motor vehicles manufactured and sold prior to July 1, 1952 in lieu
of multiple-beam road-lighting equipment herein specified if the single
distribution of light complies with the following requirements and limitations:
   (a)   The head lamps shall be so aimed that when the vehicle is not loaded
none of the high-intensity portion of the light shall at a distance of 25 feet
ahead project higher than a level of five inches below the level of the center
of the lamp from which it comes, and in no case higher than 42 inches above the
level on which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead; and
   (b)   The intensity shall be sufficient to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 200 feet.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-22)
§ 345.15 LIGHTS ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, AND MOPEDS.
   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and
moped may be of the single-beam or multiple-beam type but in either event shall
comply with the requirements and limitations as follows.
   (a)   Every head lamp or head lamps shall be of sufficient intensity to
reveal a person or a vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is operated at any speed less than 25
mph and at a distance of not less than 200 feet when it is operated at a speed
of 25 or more miles per hour.
   (b)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
multiple-beam type head lamp or head lamps the upper beam shall meet the
minimum requirements set forth above and shall not exceed the limitations set
forth in §
345.12(a) and the lowermost beam shall meet the requirements applicable to a
lowermost distribution of light as set forth in §
345.12(b).
   (c)   If the motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a
single-beam lamp or lamps such lamp or lamps shall be so aimed that when the
vehicle is loaded none of the high-intensity portion of light, at a distance of
25 feet ahead, shall project higher than the level of the center of the lamp
from which it comes.
   (d)   (1)   Subject to division (d)(2) hereof, a motorcycle may be equipped
with, and an operator of a motorcycle may use, the following auxiliary
lighting:
         A.   Amber and white illumination;
         B.   Standard bulb running lights; or
         C.   Light-emitting diode pods and strips.
      (2)   Lighting under this division shall be:
         A.   Nonblinking;
         B.   Nonflashing;
         C.   Nonoscillating; and
         D.   Directed toward the engine and the drive train of the motorcycle
to prevent interference with the driver’s operation of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-23)
§ 345.16 ALTERNATE ROAD-LIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in §
345.02 when equipped with two lighted lamps upon the front thereof capable of
revealing persons and objects 75 feet ahead in lieu of lamps required in §§
345.12 or
345.14, provided that at no time shall it be operated at a speed in excess of
20 mph.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-24)
§ 345.17 NUMBER OF DRIVING LIGHTS REQUIRED OR PERMITTED.
   (a)   At all times specified in §
345.02 at least two lighted lamps shall be displayed, one on each side at the
front of every motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or
moped, except when such vehicle is parked subject to the regulations governing
lights on parked vehicles.
   (b)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with head lamps as herein required
is also equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on
the front thereof projecting a beam of intensity greater than 300 candlepower,
not more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall
be lighted at any one time when upon a street or highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-25)
§ 345.18 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS ON LIGHTS.
   (a)   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other
than head lamps, spot lamps, auxiliary lamps, or flashing front-direction
signals which projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300
candlepower shall be so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level
of the roadway on which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet
from the vehicle.
   (b)   No person may drive or move any vehicle or equipment upon any highway
with any lamp or device thereon displaying other than a white or amber light
visible from directly in front of the center of the vehicle except as
authorized by division (d) hereof.
   (c)   Except as authorized in divisions (d) and (f) below and §
345.11, flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles; provided, that any
vehicle as a means for indicating right or left turn, or any vehicle as a means
of indicating the same is disabled or otherwise stopped for an emergency may
have blinking or flashing lights.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Traffic Code, the
following colors of flashing warning lights are restricted for the use of the
type of vehicle designated:
      (1)   Blue flashing warning lights are restricted to police vehicles.
Authorization for police vehicles shall be designated by the chief
administrative official of each police department.
      (2)   Except for standard vehicle equipment authorized by §
345.11, red flashing warning lights are restricted to the following:
         A.   Ambulances;
         B.   Firefighting vehicles;
         C.   Hazardous material response vehicles;
         D.   Industrial fire brigade vehicles;
         E.   Rescue squad vehicles not operating out of a fire department;
         F.   School buses;
         G.   Class A vehicles, as defined by W. Va. Code 17A-10-1 of those
firefighters who are authorized by their fire chiefs to have the lights;
         H.   Class A vehicles of members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department;
         I.   Class A vehicles of members of ambulance services or duly
chartered rescue squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have
the lights;
         J.   Class A vehicles of out-of-state residents who are active members
of West Virginia fire departments, ambulance services, or duly chartered rescue
squads who are authorized by their respective chiefs to have the lights;
         K.   West Virginia Department of Agriculture emergency response
vehicles;
         L.   Vehicles designated by the Secretary of the Department of
Military Affairs and Public Safety for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management;
         M.   Class A vehicles of emergency response or emergency management
personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs
and Public Safety and the county commission of the county of residence; and
         N.   Red flashing warning lights attached to a Class A vehicle shall
be operated only when responding to or engaged in handling an emergency
requiring the attention of the firefighters, members of the ambulance services,
or chartered rescue squads.
      (3)   The use of red flashing warning lights is authorized as follows:
         A.   Authorization for all ambulances shall be designated by the
Department of Health and Human Resources and the sheriff of the county of
residence;
         B.   Authorization for all fire department vehicles shall be
designated by the Fire Chief or designee thereof and the State Fire Marshal’s
Office;
         C.   Authorization for all hazardous material response vehicles and
industrial fire brigades shall be designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         D.   Authorization for all rescue squad vehicles not operating out of
a fire department shall be designated by the squad chief, the sheriff of the
county of residence, and the Department of Health and Human Resources;
         E.   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code 17C-14-12;
         F.   Authorization for firefighters to operate Class A vehicles shall
be designated by their Fire Chiefs and the State Fire Marshal’s Office;
         G.   Authorization for members of ambulance services or any other
emergency medical service personnel to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their chief official, the Department of Health and Human
Resources and the sheriff of the county of residence;
         H.   Authorization for members of duly chartered rescue squads not
operating out of a fire department to operate Class A vehicles shall be
designated by their squad chiefs, the sheriff of the county of residence, and
the Department of Health and Human Resources;
         I.   Authorization for out-of-state residents operating Class A
vehicles who are active members of a West Virginia Fire Department, ambulance
services, or duly chartered rescue squads shall be designated by their
respective chiefs;
         J.   Authorization for West Virginia Department of Agriculture
emergency response vehicles shall be designated by the Commissioner of the
Department of Agriculture;
         K.   Authorization for vehicles for emergency response or emergency
management by the Division of Corrections, Regional Jail and Correctional
Facility Authority, Division of Juvenile Services, and Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management shall be designated by the Secretary of the
Department of Military Affairs and Public Safety; and
         L.   Authorization for Class A vehicles of emergency response or
emergency management personnel as designated by the Secretary of the Department
of Military Affairs and Public Safety and the county commission of the county
of residence.
      (4)   Yellow or amber flashing warning lights are restricted to the
following:
         A.   All other emergency vehicles, including tow trucks and wreckers,
authorized by the W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and 17C-15-27;
         B.   Postal service vehicles and rural mail carriers, as authorized in
§
345.11;
         C.   Rural newspaper delivery vehicles;
         D.   Flag car services;
         E.   Vehicles providing road service to disabled vehicles;
         F.   Service vehicles of a public service corporation;
         G.   Snow removal equipment;
         H.   School buses; and
         I.   Automotive fire apparatus owned by a municipality or other
political subdivision, by a volunteer or part-volunteer fire company or
department or by an industrial fire brigade.
      (5)   The use of yellow or amber flashing warning lights shall be
authorized as follows:
         A.   Authorization for tow trucks, wreckers, rural newspaper delivery
vehicles, flag car services, vehicles providing road service to disabled
vehicles, service vehicles of a public service corporation, and postal service
vehicles shall be designated by the sheriff of the county of residence;
         B.   Authorization for snow removal equipment shall be designated by
the Commissioner of the Division of Highways;
         C.   Authorization for school buses shall be designated as set out in
W. Va. Code 17C-14-12; and
         D.   Authorization for automotive fire apparatus shall be designated
by the Fire Chief or designee thereof in conformity with the NFPA 1901 standard
for automotive fire apparatus as published by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) on July 18, 2003, and adopted by the State Fire Commission
by legislative rule (87 CSR 1 et seq.), except as follows:
            1.   With the approval of the State Fire Marshal, used automotive
fire apparatus may be conformed to the NFPA standard in effect on the date of
its manufacture or conformed to a later NFPA standard; and
            2.   Automotive fire apparatus may be equipped with blinking or
flashing headlamps.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any vehicle
belonging to a county board of education, an organization receiving funding
from the state or federal transit administration for the purpose of providing
general public transportation, or hauling solid waste may be equipped with a
white flashing strobotron warning light. This strobe light may be installed on
the roof of a school bus, a public transportation vehicle, or a vehicle hauling
solid waste not to exceed one-third the body length forward from the rear of
the roof edge. The light shall have a single clear lens emitting light 360
degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than
six and one-half inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to
indicate the light is in operation.
   (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, any waste
service vehicle as defined in W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-6-11 may be equipped with
yellow or amber flashing warning lights.
   (g)   No person shall install or use flashing warning lights of an
unauthorized color on a vehicle other than as specified in this section, except
that a police vehicle may be equipped with either or both blue or red warning
lights.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-26)
§ 345.19 MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE BRAKES.
   (a)   Brake equipment required.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle,
or moped, when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle,
including two separate means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to at least two wheels. If these two separate
means of applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so
constructed that failure of any one part of the operating mechanism shall not
leave the motor vehicle without brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped, when operated upon
a street or highway, shall be equipped with at least one brake which may be
operated by hand or foot.
      (3)   Every trailer or semitrailer of a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
more when operated upon a street or highway shall be equipped with brakes
adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to hold such vehicle and so
designed as to be applied by the driver of the towing motor vehicle from its
cab, and such brakes shall be so designed and connected that in case of an
accidental breakaway of the towed vehicle the brakes shall be automatically
applied.
      (4)   Every new motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer hereinafter sold
in this state and operated upon the streets or highways shall be equipped with
service brakes upon all wheels, with the following exceptions:
         A.   Trucks and truck-tractors having three or more axles need not
have brakes on the front wheels, except when such vehicles are equipped with at
least two steerable axles, the wheels of one such axle need not be equipped
with brakes; and
         B.   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped and any semitrailer
of less than 1,500 pounds gross weight need not be equipped with brakes.
      (5)   In any combination of motor-driven vehicles, means shall be
provided for applying the rearmost trailer brakes, of any trailer equipped with
brakes, in approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle and
developing the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest
rate; or means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the
rearmost trailer equipped with brakes; or both of the above means capable of
being used alternatively may be employed.
      (6)   A.   Every such vehicle and combination of vehicles, except
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, and mopeds, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that, when once applied, they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
         B.   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake
shoe anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated
with the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that a failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (7)   The brake shoes operating within or upon the drums on the vehicle
wheels of any motor vehicle may be used for both service and hand operation.
   (b)   Performance ability of brakes. Every motor vehicle or combination of
motor-drawn vehicles shall be capable, at all times and under all conditions of
loading, of being stopped on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose
material, upon application of the service (foot) brake, within the distances
specified below, or shall be capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate
corresponding to the following distances.
 
                              Feet to Stop from 20 mph Deceleration in Feet per
                                                       Second
Vehicle or combinations of
vehicles having brakes on all 30                       14
wheels
Vehicles or combinations of
vehicles not having brakes on 40                       10.7
all wheels
 
   (c)   Maintenance of brakes. All brakes shall be maintained in good working
order and shall be so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with
respect to the wheels on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-31)
§ 345.20 INSPECTION OF BRAKES ON MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES, AND MOPEDS.
   No person shall operate on any street or highway any motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or moped in the event the Commissioner of Highways has
disapproved the brake equipment upon such vehicle or type of vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-32)
§ 345.21 HORN, SIREN, AND THEFT ALARM SIGNAL.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street or highway shall be
equipped with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound
audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation give audible warning with his or her horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a street or highway.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
section.
   (c)   (1)   It is permissible but not required that any commercial vehicle
be equipped with a theft alarm signal device which is so arranged that it
cannot be used by the driver as an ordinary warning signal.
      (2)   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle, or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from
a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the Department
of Motor Vehicles, but such siren shall not be used except when such vehicle is
operated in response to an emergency or in the immediate pursuit of an actual
or suspected violator of the law, in which such latter events the driver of
such vehicle shall sound such siren when reasonably necessary to warn
pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-33)
§ 345.22 MUFFLER; MUFFLER CUTOUT; EXCESSIVE SMOKE, GAS, OR NOISE.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise. Such muffler shall be the muffler originally installed by the
manufacturer of the vehicle or, if a replacement, the equivalent thereof. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a street or highway.
   (b)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of excessive fumes or smoke.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-34)
§ 345.23 REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
   Every motor vehicle which is so constructed or loaded as to obstruct the
driver’s view to the rear thereof from the driver’s position shall be equipped
with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the street or
highway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-35)
§ 345.24 WINDSHIELD TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; WINDSHIELD WIPER.
   (a)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with any sign, poster, or
other nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, or side or
rear windows of such vehicle which obstructs the driver’s clear view of the
street or highway or any intersecting street or highway.
   (b)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device
shall be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the
vehicle.
   (c)   Every windshield wiper upon a motor vehicle shall be maintained in
good working order.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-36)
§ 345.25 TIRE EQUIPMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle shall have rubber on its entire
traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the
entire periphery.
   (b)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the roadway.
   (c)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the street or highway;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use studded tires during the period from
November 1 of each year until April 15 of the following year; provided, that in
the interest of highway maintenance, no vehicle moved on a street or highway,
other than school buses, shall be equipped with studded tires which are
operational with a recommended air pressure greater than 40 pounds per square
inch.
   (d)   No studded tires or chains shall be sold or used within the
municipality which do not meet the specifications established by the rules and
regulations which the Commissioner of Highways shall promulgate.
   (e)   Council may in its discretion issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the street or highway of traction engines or tractors having
movable tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable
tracks or farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a
highway would otherwise be prohibited under this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-37)
§ 345.26 SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
Editor’s note:
   Former W. Va. Code 17C-15-38 from which § 345.26 was derived was repealed by
Senate Bill 444, effective May 31, 2018.
§ 345.27 VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   Any person operating any vehicle transporting any explosive as a cargo or
part of a cargo upon a street or highway shall at all times comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (a)   Such vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and the rear
with the word “Explosives” in letters not less than eight inches high, or there
shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than 24
inches square marked with the word “Danger” in white letters six inches high.
   (b)   Every such vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use and placed at a convenient
point on the vehicle so used.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-41)
§ 345.28 VIDEO SCREENS AND MONITORS, TELEVISION RECEIVERS IN VIEW OF DRIVER
PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No motor vehicle may be operated on a street or highway when equipped
with a television receiver, video monitor, television, or video screen unless
the receiver, screen, or monitor is configured so that the moving images are
not in view of the operator while the vehicle is in motion, or if it falls
within one or more of the categories set forth in divisions (b) or (c) below.
   (b)   This prohibition does not apply to the following equipment installed
in a vehicle:
      (1)   A visual display if it does not show video or television broadcast
images in view of the operator while the motor vehicle is in motion;
      (2)   A global positioning device;
      (3)   A mapping display;
      (4)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement the driver’s view
forward, behind, or to the sides of a motor vehicle for the purpose of
maneuvering the vehicle;
      (5)   A visual display used to enhance or supplement a driver’s view of
vehicle occupants; or
      (6)   Television-type receiving equipment used exclusively for safety or
traffic engineering information.
   (c)   A television receiver, video monitor, television, or video screen or
other similar means of visually displaying a television broadcast or video
signal is not prohibited if the equipment has an interlock device that, when
the motor vehicle is driven, disables the equipment for all uses except as a
visual display described in divisions (b)(1) to (b)(6) above.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-42)
§ 345.29 SAFETY EQUIPMENT FOR MOTORCYCLISTS, MOTORCYCLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES,
AND MOPEDS.
   (a)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing securely fastened on his or her head
by either a neck or chin strap a protective helmet designed to deflect blows,
resist penetration, and spread impact forces. Any helmet worn by an operator or
passenger shall meet the current performance specifications established by the
American National Standards Institute Standard, Z 90.1, the United States
Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, or
Snell Safety Standards for Protective Headgear for Vehicle Users.
   (b)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on any motorcycle or motor-
driven cycle unless he or she is wearing safety, shatter-resistant eyeglasses
(excluding contact lenses), or eyegoggles or face shield that complies with the
performance specifications established by the American National Standards
Institute for Head, Eye, and Respiratory Protection, Z 2.1. In addition, if any
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped is equipped with a windshield or
windscreen, the windshield or windscreen shall be constructed of safety,
shatter-resistant material that complies with the performance specifications
established by Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 205 and American National Standards Institute, Safety Glazing
Materials for Glazing Motor Vehicles Operated on Land Highways, Standard Z
26.1.
   (c)   No person shall operate a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped on
which the handlebars or grips are more than 15 inches higher than the uppermost
part of the operator’s seat when the seat is not depressed in any manner.
   (d)   A person operating a motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or moped shall
ride in a seated position facing forward and only upon a permanent operator’s
seat attached to the vehicle. No operator shall carry any other person nor
shall any other person ride on such a vehicle unless the vehicle is designed to
carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride behind the
operator upon the permanent operator’s seat if it is designed for two persons,
or upon another seat firmly attached to the vehicle to the rear of the
operator’s seat and equipped with footrests designed and located for use by the
passenger or in a sidecar firmly attached to the vehicle. No person shall ride
sidesaddle on a seat. An operator may carry as many passengers as there are
seats and footrests to accommodate those passengers. Additional passengers may
be carried in a factory produced side car provided that there is one passenger
per seat. Passengers riding in a sidecar shall be restrained by safety belts.
   (e)   Every motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, and moped shall be equipped with
a rearview mirror affixed to the handlebars or fairings and adjusted so that
the operator shall have a clear view of the road and condition of traffic
behind him or her for a distance of at least 200 feet.
   (f)   (1)   AUTOCYCLE means a fully or partially enclosed motorcycle that is
equipped with safety belts, rollover protection, a rearview mirror, automotive
seating, a steering wheel and equipment otherwise required on a motorcycle and
which has no more than three wheels in contact with the roadway at any one
time.
(W. Va. Code 17C-1-69)
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, a
person with a valid driver’s license who is operating a fully enclosed
autocycle, as defined in division (f)(1) hereof, is exempt from the provisions
of this section.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-44)
§ 345.30 CERTIFICATION LABELS ON MOPEDS.
   Every moped sold in this municipality shall have permanently affixed to it a
certification label which shall contain the following information:
   (a)   Name of manufacturer;
   (b)   Month and year of manufacture;
   (c)   Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR);
   (d)   Gross axle weight rating for front and rear axles (GAWR);
   (e)   Vehicle identification number;
   (f)   Classification type; and
   (g)   Statement of conformance to federal standards as required by federal
law.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-45)
§ 345.31 CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY DEVICES REQUIRED; CHILD SAFETY SEATS AND
BOOSTER SEATS.
   (a)   Every driver who transports a child under the age of eight years in a
passenger automobile, van, or pickup truck other than one operated for hire
shall, while the motor vehicle is in motion and operated on a street or
highway, provide for the protection of the child by properly placing,
maintaining, and securing the child in a child passenger safety device system
meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards; provided, that if a
child is under the age of eight years and at least four feet nine inches tall,
a safety belt shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of this section.
   (b)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $20.
      (2)   A violation of this section does not by virtue of the violation
constitute evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative
negligence in any civil action or proceeding for damages.
   (c)   If any provision of this section or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity may not affect other
provisions or applications of this section and to this end the divisions of
this section are declared to be severable.
   (d)   If all seat belts in a vehicle are being used at the time of
examination by a law officer and the vehicle contains more passengers than the
total number of seat belts or other safety devices as installed in compliance
with federal motor vehicle safety standards, the driver may not be considered
in violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-46)
§ 345.32 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No owner or operator of any vehicle required to be inspected under W. Va.
Code Ch. 17C-16 shall operate or permit to be operated such vehicle without
having displayed thereon a current and valid certificate of inspection and
approval or fail to produce same upon demand of any authorized person as
therein designated.
(W. Va. Code 17C-16-9)
§ 345.33 ALTERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; BUMPER HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (a)   No person shall operate upon a public street or highway any motor
vehicle registered or required to be registered in this state if it has been
modified by alteration of its height from the ground to the extent that its
bumpers, measured to any point on the lower edge of the main horizontal bumper
bar, exclusive of any bumper guards, do not fall within the limits specified
herein for its gross vehicle weight rating category. The front and rear bumper
height of motor vehicles whose gross vehicle weight rating is 10,000 pounds or
less shall be no less than six inches and no more than 31 inches. In the
absence of bumpers, and in cases where bumper heights have been altered or
modified, height measurements shall be made to the bottom of the frame rail. If
a motor vehicle has a bumper, the bumper must be at least three inches in
vertical width, centered on the center line of the motor vehicle and not less
than the width of the wheel track distance. The provisions of this division do
not apply to motor vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of
10,000 pounds. For the purpose of this division, the term GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT
RATINGS means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight ratings established for
that vehicle.
   (b)   The maximum distance between the vehicle body to the vehicle frame
shall not exceed three inches. The distance from the vehicle body to the
vehicle frame shall be measured from the vehicle body mount seat to the vehicle
frame mount seat; provided, that the maximum distance limitation shall not
prohibit a body lift kit up to three inches to be added to the manufacturer’s
original spacer between the body and the frame. No vehicle shall be modified to
cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with the ground, expose
the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels to come in contact
with the body under normal operation. No part of the original suspension system
may be disconnected to defeat the safe operation of the suspension system.
Modification of the front end suspension by the use of lift blocks is expressly
prohibited.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section prevents the installation of heavy
duty equipment, including shock absorbers and overload springs.
   (d)   Nothing contained in this section prohibits the operation on a public
street or highway of a motor vehicle with normal wear to the suspension system
if such normal wear does not adversely affect the control of the vehicle.
   (e)   This section does not apply to specially designed or modified motor
vehicles when operated off the public streets and highways in races and similar
events. Such motor vehicles may be lawfully towed on the streets and highways
of this municipality.
   (f)   Modifications to motor vehicles, not prohibited herein, shall be made
subject to inspection as provided in division (h) hereof.
   (g)   Nothing contained in this section shall subject a vehicle modified
solely by the installation of tires not larger than two sizes beyond the
maximum specified by the manufacturer to inspection as provided in division (h)
hereof.
   (h)   Any motor vehicle which has been altered from the manufacturer’s
specification with respect to bumper height for that vehicle make and model but
within the allowable limits of division (a) hereof or any motor vehicle which
has been altered from the manufacturer’s specification for that vehicle make
and model with respect to the distance from the vehicle body to vehicle frame
but within the allowable limits of division (b) hereof may be operated upon a
public street or highway in this municipality, subject to inspection under W.
Va. Code 17C-15-48; provided, that any motor vehicle which has been altered
from the manufacturer’s specification by lowering the bumper height for that
vehicle make and model within the allowable limits of division (a) hereof shall
be exempt from the inspection requirements hereunder and may be operated upon a
public street or highway in this municipality subject to provisions of W. Va.
Code Ch. 17C-16. Each municipal law enforcement agency must record on crash
report forms whether a modified vehicle was involved in the crash.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-48)
§ 345.34 SUN SCREENING DEVICES.
   (a)   No person may operate a motor vehicle that is registered or required
to be registered in the state on any public highway, road, or street that has a
sun screening device on the windshield, the front side wings, and side windows
adjacent to the right and left of the driver and windows adjacent to the rear
of the driver that do not meet the requirements of this section; provided, that
law enforcement K-9 and other emergency vehicles that are designed to haul
animals, unmarked law enforcement vehicles primarily used for covert or
undercover enforcement, and automobiles that have sun-screening devices
installed at the factory by the manufacturer are exempt from this requirement.
No unmarked law enforcement vehicle, herein exempted, may engage in routine
traffic stops.
   (b)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the windshield
must be nonreflective and may not be red, yellow, or amber in color. A sun
screening device may be used only along the top of the windshield and may not
extend downward beyond the ASI line or more than five inches from the top of
the windshield, whichever is closer to the top of the windshield.
   (c)   A sun screening device when used in conjunction with the automotive
safety glazing materials of the side wings or side windows located at the
immediate right and left of the driver shall be a nonreflective type with
reflectivity of not more than 20% and have a light transmission of not less
than 35%. The side windows behind the driver and the rear most windows may have
a sun screening device that is designed to be used on automotive safety glazing
materials that has a light transmission of not less than 35% and a reflectivity
of not more than 20%. If a sun screening device is used on glazing behind the
driver, one right and one left outside rear view mirror is required.
   (d)   Each manufacturer shall:
      (1)   Certify to the State Police and Division of Motor Vehicles that a
sun screening device used by it is in compliance with the reflectivity and
transmittance requirements of this section;
      (2)   Provide a label not to exceed one and one-half square inches in
size, with a means for the permanent and legible installations between the sun
screening material and each glazing surface to which it is applied that
contains the manufacturer’s name and its percentage of light transmission; and
      (3)   Include instructions with the product or material for proper
installation, including the affixing of the label specified in this section.
The labeling or marking must be placed in the left lower corner of each glazing
surface when facing the vehicle from the outside.
   (e)   No person shall:
      (1)   Offer for sale or for use any sun screening product or material for
motor vehicle use not in compliance with this section; or
      (2)   Install any sun screening product or material on vehicles intended
for use on public roads without permanently affixing the label specified in
this section.
   (f)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a motor vehicle
registered in this state in the name of a person, or the person’s legal
guardian, who has an affidavit signed by a physician or an optometrist licensed
to practice in this state that states that the person has a physical condition
that makes it necessary to equip the motor vehicle with sun screening material
which would be of a light transmittance or luminous reflectance in violation of
this section. The affidavit must be in the possession of the person so
afflicted, or the person’s legal guardian, at all times while being transported
in the motor vehicle.
   (g)   The light transmittance requirement of this section does not apply to
windows behind the driver on trucks, buses, trailers, mobile homes, and multi-
purpose passenger vehicles.
   (h)   As used in this section:
      BUS. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed for
carrying more than ten persons.
      LIGHT TRANSMISSION. The ratio of the amount of total light to pass
through a product or material to the amount of the total light falling on the
product or material.
      LUMINOUS REFLECTANTS. The ratio of the amount of total light that is
reflected outward by the product or material to the amount of the total light
falling on the product or materials.
      MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the manufacturing or assembling of
sun screening products or materials designed to be used in conjunction with
vehicle glazing materials for the purpose of reducing the effects of the sun.
      MOTOR HOMES. Vehicular units designed to provide temporary living
quarters built into and an integral part of or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis.
      MULTI-PURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. A motor vehicle with motive power,
except a trailer, designed to carry ten persons or less which is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      NONREFLECTIVE. A product or material designed to absorb light rather than
to reflect it.
      PASSENGER CAR. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a multi-purpose
passenger vehicle, motorcycle, or trailer, designed for carrying ten persons or
less.
      SUN SCREENING DEVICE. Film material or device that is designed to be used
in conjunction with motor vehicle safety glazing materials for reducing the
effects of the sun.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle with motive power, except a trailer, designed
primarily for the transportation of property or special purpose equipment.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-36a)
§ 345.35 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITH SAFETY BELTS.
   (a)   A person may not operate a passenger vehicle on a public street or
highway unless the person, any passenger in the back seat under 18 years of
age, and any passenger in the front seat of the passenger vehicle is restrained
by a safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards. For
the purposes of this section, PASSENGER VEHICLE means a motor vehicle which is
designed for transporting ten passengers or less, including the driver, except
that the term does not include a motorcycle, a trailer, or any motor vehicle
which is not required on the date of the enactment of this section under a
federal motor vehicle safety standard to be equipped with a belt system. The
provisions of this section shall apply to all passenger vehicles manufactured
after January 1, 1967, and being 1968 models and newer.
   (b)   The required use of safety belts as provided herein does not apply to
a duly appointed or contracted rural mail carrier of the United States Postal
Service who is actually making mail deliveries or to a passenger or operator
with a physically disabling condition whose physical disability would prevent
appropriate restraint in the safety belt if the condition is duly certified by
a physician who states the nature of the disability as well as the reason such
restraint is inappropriate.
   (c)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined
not more than $25. No court costs or other fees may be assessed for a violation
of this section.
   (d)   A violation of this section is not admissible as evidence of
negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in any civil
action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in mitigation of
damages; provided, that the court may, upon motion of the defendant, conduct an
in-camera hearing to determine whether an injured party’s failure to wear a
safety belt was a proximate cause of the injuries complained of. Upon such a
finding by the court, the court may then, in a jury trial, by special
interrogatory to the jury, determine that the injured party failed to wear a
safety belt, and that the failure to wear the safety belt constituted a failure
to mitigate damages. The trier of fact may reduce the injured party’s recovery
for medical damages by an amount not to exceed 5% thereof. In the event the
plaintiff stipulates to the reduction of 5% of medical damages, the court shall
make the calculations and the issue of mitigation of damages for failure to
wear a safety belt may not be presented to the jury. In all cases, the actual
computation of the dollar amount reduction shall be determined by the court.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, no
points may be entered on any driver’s record maintained by the Division of
Motor Vehicles as a result of a violation of this section.
   (f)   Nothing contained in this section abrogates or alters the provisions
of §
345.31 relating to the mandatory use of child passenger safety devices.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-49)
§ 345.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Unless otherwise provided for in this
article, any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not
more than $100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be
fined not more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (b)   Brakes. Any person violating §§
345.19 or
345.20 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than ten days,
or both; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined
not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 20 days, or both; and upon a
third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-6)
   (c)   Sun screening devices. Whoever violates §
345.34 shall be fined not more than $200.
(W. Va. Code 17C-15-36a)
ARTICLE 347: COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
   
347.01   Oversize or overweight vehicles
   
347.02   Projecting loads on passenger vehicles
   
347.03   Maximum width, height, and length
   
347.04   Loads dropping or leaking
   
347.05   Towing requirements
   
347.06   Exhaust systems
 
   
347.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to designate weight limits on local streets, see W. Va. Code 17C-
2-8(a)(7)
   Authority to permit oversized buses, see W. Va. Code 17C-17-2(b)
   Red light or flag on extended load, see TRAF.
345.07
   Transporting explosives, see TRAF.
345.27
§ 347.01 OVERSIZE OR OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES.
   (a)   Use of state route.
      (1)   No person shall operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-17 upon any state route within the municipality, except
pursuant to special written permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways, or
upon any local truck route. Every such permit shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer.
      (2)   No holder of a permit issued by the Commissioner of Highways shall
be required to obtain any local permit or license or pay any local fee or
charge for movement on any state route within the municipality; however, it
shall be unlawful to operate any such vehicle or combination of vehicles upon
any roadway within the municipality which is not a state route, except as
provided in division (c) hereof.
   (b)   Use of local streets. No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a
size as specified in §
347.03 or exceeding a gross weight of five tons, upon any street in the
municipality other than a state route, except those local streets designated as
a truck route and marked as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when
such operation is necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the
usual place of storage of such vehicle or to perform any other legitimate
business or act other than passage through the municipality. Operators of
vehicles so deviating from either a state route or a designated truck route
within the municipality shall confine such deviation to that required in order
to accomplish the purpose of the departure.
   (c)   Local permit and conditions.
      (1)   Upon application and for good cause, the Police Chief may issue a
local permit authorizing an applicant to move an oversize or overweight vehicle
or combination of vehicles upon local streets.
      (2)   No permittee shall be required to obtain a special permit from the
Commissioner of Highways for the movement of the vehicle or combination of
vehicles on streets or highways under local jurisdiction; however, the approval
of the Commissioner of Highways shall be required for movement upon state
routes as provided in division (a) hereof.
      (3)   The Police Chief may grant a permit for a single or round trip, or
for such period of time, not to exceed one year, as the Police Chief in his or
her discretion deems advisable, or for the duration of any construction
project. The Police Chief may limit or prescribe terms or conditions of
operation for such vehicle or combination of vehicles by designating the route,
hours, speed, or such other restrictions as may be necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, property, health, and safety. The Police
Chief may require the posting of bond or other security necessary to compensate
for any damage to a roadway or road structure.
      (4)   For each such permit, the Police Chief shall charge $5, and for
each hour of time or any part thereof spent by each police officer in
supervising the movement of such vehicle, the applicant shall pay the sum of
$10.
      (5)   Signs shall be posted indicating “no thru trucks - gross weight 5
tons” or words of similar import to apprise drivers of the limitations imposed
by this section. No driver shall disobey the instructions indicated on any such
sign.
      (6)   Violation of any of the limitations, terms, or conditions of the
permit granted by the Police Chief shall be cause for immediate revocation or
suspension of such permit, and denial of request for any future permit. Such
violation shall also subject the violator to the penalty prescribed by §
303.99.
§ 347.02 PROJECTING LOADS ON PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   (a)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders of the
left side of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (b)   A motor home, travel trailer, or truck camper may exceed the maximum
width prescribed in §
347.03, if the excess width is attributable to an appurtenance that does not
exceed more than six inches beyond the body of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-17-3)
§ 347.03 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (a)   A vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a height of 13
feet six inches, but the owner or owners of such vehicles shall be responsible
for damage to any bridge or highway structure and to municipalities for any
damage to traffic control devices or other highway structures where such
bridges, devices, or structures have a vehicle clearance of less than 13 feet
six inches.
   (b)   A motor vehicle, including any load thereon, may not exceed a length
of 40 feet extreme overall dimension, inclusive of front and rear bumpers,
except that a motor home and school bus may not exceed a length of 45 feet,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers.
   (c)   Except as hereinafter provided in this division or in division (d)
below, a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist of more than
two units and no combination of vehicles including any load thereon shall have
an overall length, inclusive of front and rear bumpers, in excess of 55 feet
except as provided in W. Va. Code 17C-17-11b, and except as otherwise provided
in respect to the use of a pole trailer as authorized in W. Va. Code 17C-17-5.
The limitation that a combination of vehicles coupled together may not consist
of more than two units may not apply to:
      (1)   A combination of vehicles coupled together by a saddle-mount device
used to transport motor vehicles in a drive-away service when no more than
three saddle mounts are used, if equipment used in the combination meets the
requirements of the safety regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation and may not exceed an overall length of more than 75 feet; or
      (2)   A combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer having an overall length, exclusive
of front and rear bumpers, not exceeding 65 feet.
   (d)   A combination of two vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
motor home, or a combination of vehicles coupled together, one of which is a
travel trailer or folding camping trailer, may not exceed an overall length,
exclusive of front and rear bumpers of 65 feet.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (a), (b), (c), and (d) of
this section, the Commissioner of Highways may designate, upon his or her own
motion or upon the petition of an interested party, a combination vehicle
length not to exceed 70 feet.
   (f)   The length limitations for truck tractor-semitrailer combinations and
truck tractor-semitrailer- trailer combinations operating on the national
system of interstate and defense highways and those classes of qualifying
federal-aid primary system highways so designated by the United States
Secretary of Transportation and those highways providing reasonable access to
and from terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest and points of
loading and unloading for household goods carriers from such highways and
further, as to other highways so designated by the state’s Commissioner of
Highways, shall be as follows: the maximum length of a semitrailer unit
operating in a truck tractor-semitrailer combination shall not exceed 48 feet
in length except where semitrailers have an axle spacing of not more than 37
feet between the rear axle of the truck tractor and the front axle of the
semitrailer, such semitrailer shall be allowed to be not more than 53 feet in
length and the maximum length of any semitrailer or trailer operating in a
truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combination may not exceed 28 feet in length
and in no event shall any combinations exceed three units, including the truck
tractor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall impose an overall length
limitation as to commercial motor vehicles operating in truck tractor-
semitrailer or truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer combinations.
(W. Va. Code 17C-17-4)
   (g)   The total outside width, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by
the United States Department of Transportation, of any vehicle or the load
thereon may not exceed 96 inches, except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code
Ch. 17C-17; provided, that any vehicle with a total outside width of 102
inches, exclusive of safety equipment authorized by the United States
Department of Transportation, may be operated on any street or highway
designated by the United States Department of Transportation or the
Commissioner of the Department of Highways or on any street or highway having a
minimum lane width of ten feet.
   (h)   Motor homes, travel trailers, truck campers, and motor buses with a
total outside width of 102 inches, excluding safety equipment authorized by the
United States Department of Transportation, may operate on any street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-17-2)
§ 347.04 LOADS DROPPING OR LEAKING.
   (a)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles shall be operated on any street
or highway unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles is so constructed or
loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking, or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled on a roadway
in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
   (b)   No person shall operate on any street or highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with any load unless such load and any covering thereon
is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from becoming
loose, detached, or in any manner a hazard to other users of the street or
highway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-17-6)
§ 347.05 TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   When one vehicle is towing another, the drawbar or other connection
shall be of sufficient strength to pull all weight towed thereby and such
drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one vehicle to the
other except the connection between any two vehicles transporting poles, pipe,
machinery, or other objects of structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered.
   (b)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists of a
chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a white
flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.
(W. Va. Code 17C-17-7)
§ 347.06 EXHAUST SYSTEMS.
   All commercial vehicles must have the suggested manufactured exhaust system,
no modified exhaust will be accepted.
§ 347.99 PENALTY.
   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
ARTICLE 349: MISCELLANEOUS RULES
Section
   
349.01   Unattended motor vehicle
   
349.02   Backing a vehicle
   
349.03   Drivers’ view and control to be unobstructed by load or persons
   
349.04   Passengers in seat with operator
   
349.05   Passengers on running board
   
349.06   Following authorized emergency vehicles
   
349.061   Approaching authorized emergency vehicles
   
349.07   Driving over fire hose
   
349.08   Funeral processions
   
349.09   Opening door of vehicle on traffic side
   
349.10   Boarding or alighting from vehicle
   
349.11   Unlawful riding
   
349.12   Squealing tires, cracking exhaust noises
   
349.13   Taking, injuring, or tampering with vehicle
   
349.14   Driving upon sidewalk, street lawn, or curb
   
349.15   Shortcutting; avoiding traffic control devices
   
349.16    Coasting prohibited
   
349.17   Driving through safety zone
   
349.18   Driving upon street posted as closed for repair
   
349.19   Obstruction of traffic
   
349.20   Vehicle security
   
349.21   Littering from a motor vehicle
   
349.22   Use of an electronic communications device
 
   
349.99   Penalty
Cross references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Obedience to traffic control devices, see TRAF.
313.01
§ 349.01 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
Editor’s note:
   Former W. Va. Code 17C-14-1 from which § 349.01 was derived was repealed by
House Bill 2612, effective May 14, 2018.
§ 349.02 BACKING A VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-2)
§ 349.03 DRIVERS’ VIEW AND CONTROL TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED BY LOAD OR PERSONS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-4)
§ 349.04 PASSENGERS IN SEAT WITH OPERATOR.
   No more than three persons including the operator shall ride or be permitted
by such operator to ride in the seat with the operator of any motor vehicle
while such motor vehicle is being operated on the streets or highways of this
municipality; provided, however, that the limitation of this section shall not
apply to a truck cab or truck crew compartment properly designed for the
occupancy of four persons including the operator, and so designated on the
registration card by the Division of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-5)
§ 349.05 PASSENGERS ON RUNNING BOARD.
   No passenger shall ride nor shall the operator permit any passenger to ride
on the running boards of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is being operated
on the streets or highways of this municipality.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-6)
§ 349.06 FOLLOWING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business may not follow
any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in response to a fire alarm or other
emergency closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the
block where such authorized emergency vehicle has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm or other emergency.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-9)
§ 349.061 APPROACHING AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of any vehicle approaching a stationary authorized emergency
vehicle, when the authorized emergency vehicle is giving a signal by displaying
alternately flashing red, red and white, blue, or red and blue lights or amber
or yellow warning lights, shall:
   (a)   Proceed with due caution, yield the right-of-way by making a lane
change not adjacent to that of the authorized emergency vehicle, if possible
with regard to safety and traffic conditions, if on a highway having at least
four lanes with not less than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle and reduce speed to a safe level for road conditions; or
   (b)   Proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining
a safe speed not to exceed 15 mph on any nondivided highway or street and 25
mph on any divided highway depending on road conditions, if changing lanes
would be impossible or unsafe.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-9a)
§ 349.07 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-10)
§ 349.08 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (a)   Definitions.
      FUNERAL DIRECTOR and FUNERAL ESTABLISHMENT. The same meaning as set forth
in W. Va. Code 30-6-4.
      FUNERAL ESCORT. A person or entity that provides escort services for
funeral processions, including law enforcement personnel and agencies.
      FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle that escorts a funeral
procession.
      FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE. Any authorized law enforcement or nonlaw
enforcement motor vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle being used to lead and
facilitate the movement of a funeral procession. A funeral hearse may serve as
a FUNERAL LEAD VEHICLE.
      FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person, or traveling to the church, chapel, cemetery, or other
location at which the funeral service or final disposition is to be held,
including a funeral lead vehicle or a funeral escort vehicle.
   (b)   Funeral procession right-of-way.
      (1)   Regardless of any traffic control device or right-of-way provisions
prescribed by state or local ordinance, pedestrians and operators of all
vehicles, except as stated in division (b)(3) below, shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle which is part of a funeral procession being led by a funeral
escort vehicle or a funeral lead vehicle.
      (2)   When the funeral lead vehicle lawfully enters an intersection,
either by reason of a traffic control device or at the direction of law
enforcement personnel, the remaining vehicles in the funeral procession may
follow through the intersection regardless of any traffic control devices or
right-of-way provisions prescribed by state or local law.
      (3)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections
regardless of traffic control devices subject to the following conditions and
exceptions:
         A.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way to an approaching emergency vehicle giving an audible or visible
signal;
         B.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a police officer; and
         C.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession must exercise due
care when participating in a funeral procession.
   (c)   Driving in procession.
      (1)   All vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall follow the
preceding vehicle in the funeral procession as closely as is practical and
safe.
      (2)   Any ordinance, law, or rule stating that motor vehicles shall be
operated to allow sufficient space enabling any other vehicle to enter and
occupy such space without danger is not applicable to vehicles in a funeral
procession.
   (d)   Liability. Liability for any death, personal injury, or property
damage suffered on or after July 1, 1999, by any person in a funeral procession
may not be imposed upon a funeral director or funeral establishment or their
employees or agents unless the death, personal injury, or property damage is
proximately caused by the negligent or intentional act of a funeral director or
funeral establishment or their employees or agents.
   (e)   Equipment. All nonlaw enforcement funeral escort vehicles and funeral
lead vehicles may be equipped with at least one lighted circulation flashing
lamp exhibiting an amber or purple light or lens. Flashing amber or purple
lights may be used when such vehicles are used in a funeral procession.
(W. Va. Code Ch. 17C-23)
§ 349.09 OPENING DOOR OF VEHICLE ON TRAFFIC SIDE.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than is necessary to load or unload
passengers.
§ 349.10 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLE.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
§ 349.11 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended for
merchandise.
§ 349.12 SQUEALING TIRES, CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES.
   No person shall unnecessarily race the motor of any vehicle and no person
shall operate any motor vehicle, except in an emergency, in such a manner that
the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position that
the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking, or chattering noise unusual to its
normal operation, or whereby the tires of such vehicle squeal or leave tire
marks on the roadway, commonly called “peeling”.
§ 349.13 TAKING, INJURING, OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle, not his or her own, without consent
of the owner thereof, and with intent temporarily to deprive such owner of his
or her possession of such vehicle, but without intent to steal the vehicle. The
consent of the owner of a vehicle to its taking or driving shall not in any
case be presumed or implied because of such owner’s consent on a previous
occasion to the taking or driving of such vehicle by the same or a different
person. Any person who assists in, or is a party or accessory to or an
accomplice in any such unauthorized taking or driving, shall also be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(W. Va. Code 17A-8-4)
   (b)   No person either individually or in association with one or more
persons shall willfully injure or tamper with any vehicle or break or remove
any part or parts of or from a vehicle without the consent of the owner.
   (c)   No person with intent to commit any malicious mischief, injury, or
other crime shall climb into or upon a vehicle whether it is in motion or at
rest or with like intent attempt to manipulate any of the levers, starting
mechanism, brakes, or other mechanism or device of a vehicle while the same is
at rest and unattended or with like intent set in motion any vehicle while the
same is at rest and unattended.
(W. Va. Code 17A-8-6)
§ 349.14 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK, STREET LAWN, OR CURB.
   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle, upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway.
   (b)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street lawn area or the curb of a
street, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 349.15 SHORTCUTTING; AVOIDING TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property marked with signs “No Through Traffic” or words of similar import for
the purpose of passing from one roadway to another.
   (b)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle across public or private
property for the purpose of avoiding compliance with a traffic control device.
   (c)   It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this section for
the operator of a motor vehicle to cross public or private property as provided
herein without using the service of such property, stopping the engine, or
both.
§ 349.16 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The operator of any motor vehicle when traveling on a down grade on any
street, alley, or highway shall not coast with the gears of such vehicle in
neutral.
§ 349.17 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall drive the same over or through a safety zone.
§ 349.18 DRIVING UPON STREET POSTED AS CLOSED FOR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or any
part thereof, which has been closed in the process of its construction,
reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by the authority
having jurisdiction to close such street or highway.
§ 349.19 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall operate, stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle on any
street or alley within the municipality so as to obstruct or hinder the free
flow of motor vehicle traffic except in compliance with a lawful order of a
police officer or in compliance with a traffic control sign, signal, or
marking.
§ 349.20 VEHICLE SECURITY.
   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle shall maintain security upon
such vehicle as required by W. Va. Code Ch. 17D-2A, and no person shall
knowingly drive or operate on any street within the municipality any motor
vehicle upon which security is required by such Article unless the security is
provided, and violation of any of the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17D-2A,
including failure to have a certificate of insurance, if required, shall
constitute a violation under this section.
§ 349.21 LITTERING FROM A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any driver or passenger of a motor vehicle or other
conveyance to place, deposit, dump, throw, or cause to be placed, deposited,
dumped, or thrown, any litter from a motor vehicle or other conveyance in or
upon any public or private highway, road, street, or alley; any private
property; any public property; or the waters of the state or within 100 feet of
the waters of this state, except in a proper litter or other solid waste
receptacle.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, LITTER means all waste material
including, but not limited to, any garbage, refuse, trash, disposable package,
container, can, bottle, paper, ashes, cigarette or cigar butt, carcass of any
dead animal or any part thereof, or any other offensive or unsightly matter,
but not including the wastes of primary processes of mining, logging,
sawmilling, farming, or manufacturing.
   (c)   When there is more than one occupant in a motor vehicle or other
conveyance and it can not be determined which occupant is responsible for
violating this section, the driver shall be presumed to be responsible for the
violation.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-14)
§ 349.22 USE OF AN ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
   (a)    Except as provided in division (c) below, a person may not drive or
operate a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while:
      (1)    Texting; or
      (2)    Using a cell phone or other electronic communications device,
unless the use is accomplished by hands-free equipment.
   (b)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CELL PHONE. A cellular, analog, wireless, or digital telephone.
       DRIVING or OPERATING A MOTOR VEHICLE. Operating a motor vehicle, with
the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of traffic, a
traffic control device, or other momentary delays, but does not include
operating a motor vehicle after the driver has moved the vehicle to the side
of, or off, a highway and halted in a location where the vehicle can safely
remain stationary.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. A cell telephone, personal digital
assistant, electronic device with mobile data access, laptop computer, pager,
broadband personal communication device, two-way messaging device, electronic
game, or portable computing device. For the purposes of this section, an
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE does not include:
         A.   Voice radios, mobile radios, land mobile radios, commercial
mobile radios, or two-way radios with the capability to transmit and receive
voice transmissions utilizing a push-to-talk or press-to-transmit function; or
         B.   Other voice radios used by a law enforcement officer, an
emergency services provider, an employee or agent of public safety
organizations, first responders, amateur radio operators (HAM) licensed by the
Federal Communications Commission, and school bus operators.
      ENGAGING IN A CALL. When a person talks into or listens on an electronic
communication device, but shall not include when a person dials or enters a
phone number on a pushpad or screen to initiate the call.
      HANDS-FREE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. An electronic communication
device that has an internal feature or function, or that is equipped with an
attachment or addition, whether or not permanently part of such electronic
communication device, by which a user engages in a call without the use of
either hand or both hands.
      HANDS-FREE EQUIPMENT. The internal feature or function of a hands-free
electronic communication device or the attachment or addition to a hands-free
electronic communication device by which a user may engage in a call or text
without the use of either hand or both hands.
      TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from,
an electronic communication device, and includes, but is not limited to, short
message service, e-mailing, instant messaging, a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry, for present or future communication. For purposes of this section,
TEXTING does not include the following actions:
         A.   Reading, selecting, or entering a telephone number, an extension
number, or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device by
the pressing the device in order to initiate or receive a phone call or using
voice commands to initiate or receive a telephone call;
         B.   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         C.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions,
including fleet management systems, dispatching devices, smart phones, citizens
band radios, or music players, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited
in this section.
      USING A CELL PHONE OR OTHER ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE. Holding in a
person’s hand or hands an electronic communication device while:
         A.   Viewing or transmitting images or data;
         B.   Playing games;
         C.   Composing, sending, reading, viewing, accessing, browsing,
transmitting, saving or retrieving e-mail, text messages, or other electronic
data; or
         D.   Engaging in a call.
   (c)   Division (a) above shall not apply to:
      (1)    A law enforcement officer, a firefighter, an emergency medical
technician, a paramedic, or the operator of an authorized emergency vehicle in
the performance of their official duties;
      (2)    A person using an electronic communication device to report to
appropriate authorities a fire, a traffic accident, a serious road hazard, or a
medical or hazardous materials emergencies; or
      (3)    The activation or deactivation of hands-free equipment or a
function of hands-free equipment.
   (d)   This section does not supersede the provisions of W. Va. Code 17B-2-
3a, of the or any more restrictive provisions for drivers of commercial motor
vehicles prescribed by the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17E or federal law or
rule.
   (e)   Any person who violates the provisions of division (a) above is guilty
of a traffic offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall for a first offense be
fined $100; for a second offense be fined $200; and for a third or subsequent
offense be fined $300. No court costs or other fees shall be assessed for a
violation of division (a) above.
   (f)   Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway
while texting shall be enforced as a primary offense as of July 1, 2012.
Driving or operating a motor vehicle on a public street or highway while using
a cell phone or other electronic communication device without hands-free
equipment shall be enforced as a secondary offense as of July 1, 2012, and as a
primary offense as of July 1, 2013 for purposes of citation.
   (g)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to authorize
seizure of a cell phone or electronic device by any law enforcement agency.
§ 349.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (b)   Violations involving emergency vehicles.
      (1)   Any person who violates §
349.061 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both fined and imprisoned.
      (2)   If violation of §
349.061 results in property damage in addition to any other penalty imposed,
driving privileges of the persons causing the property damage shall be
suspended for 90 days.
      (3)   If violation of §
349.061 results in injury to another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the injury shall be
suspended for six months.
      (4)   If violation of §
349.061 results in the death of another person in addition to any other penalty
imposed, the driving privileges of the person causing the death shall be
suspended for two years.
      (5)   Any person who violates §
349.061 and while doing so also violates §
333.01 shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-9a)
   (c)   Taking, injuring, or tampering with vehicle. Whoever violates §
349.13 shall, for a first offense, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17A-11-1)
   (d)   Vehicle security. Whoever violates §
349.20 shall be fined not less than $200 or more than $5,000 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17D-2A-9)
ARTICLE 351: LICENSING GENERALLY
Section
   
351.01   Registration, certificate of title required
   
351.02   Registration card
   
351.03   Display of registration plates
   
351.04   Operation of vehicle without evidence of registration; use of
temporary facsimile
   
351.05   Improper use of registration card, plate, or permit
   
351.06   Driver or motorcycle license required
   
351.07   Persons exempt from license
   
351.08   Display of license
   
351.09   Certain acts prohibited
   
351.10   Driving under suspension or revocation
   
351.11   Owner or operator allowing another to drive
   
351.12   Insurance requirements
 
   
351.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Illumination of license plate, see TRAF.
345.05(c)
   Impounding unlicensed vehicle, see TRAF.
303.07
§ 351.01 REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATE OF TITLE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive or move and no owner shall knowingly permit to be
driven or moved upon any street or highway any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A which is not registered or for which a
certificate of title has not been issued or applied for or for which the
appropriate fee has not been paid when and as required, except as otherwise
permitted by the provisions therein; provided, that in the event of the sale of
a vehicle by a person other than a registered dealer, the person purchasing the
same may, for a period of not more than ten days, operate such vehicle under
the registration of its previous owner and display the registration thereof;
provided further, that he or she shall have and display on the demand of any
proper officer the consent in writing of such previous owner so to use such
registration.
(W. Va. Code 17A-3-1)
§ 351.02 REGISTRATION CARD.
   Every owner upon receipt of a registration card shall write his or her
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided. Every such
registration card shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to which it
refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such vehicle
who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer or any officer or
employee of the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 17A-3-13)
§ 351.03 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (a)   Registration plates issued for vehicles required to be registered
shall be attached to the rear thereof except that on truck tractors and road
tractors designed and constructed to pull trailers or semi-trailers, the
registration plate shall be mounted to the front.
   (b)   Every registration plate shall at all times be securely fastened in a
horizontal position to the vehicle for which it is issued so as to prevent the
plate from swinging and at a height of not less than 12 inches from the ground,
measuring from the bottom of such plate, in a place and position to be clearly
visible and shall be maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition
to be clearly legible.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (b) above, an owner of a
motor vehicle with a Class G registration as defined in W. Va. Code 17A-10-
1 may choose to:
      (1)   Display a standard, Class G registration plate in a horizontal
position; or
      (2)   Display a specially designed Class G registration plate in a
vertical position.
(W. Va. Code 17A-3-15)
§ 351.04 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION; USE OF
TEMPORARY FACSIMILE.
   (a)   No person shall operate or park, nor shall an owner knowingly permit
to be operated or parked upon any street or highway any vehicle required to be
registered unless there is attached thereto and displayed thereon or is in the
possession of the operator when and as required by this Traffic Code, a valid
registration card and registration plate or plates issued therefor by the
Department of Motor Vehicles for the current registration year except as
otherwise expressly permitted in W. Va. Code Ch. 17A.
   (b)   In the event that the registration plate or plates originally issued
are lost, destroyed, or stolen, a temporary facsimile of the plate or plates,
showing the number of the same, may be attached to the vehicle by the owner for
a period of not more than 15 days, or until a new plate or plates are issued by
the Department, whichever is earlier; provided, that no such facsimile shall be
used and no such vehicle shall be driven upon the streets or highways of this
municipality until the owner has notified in writing the State Police of the
loss of such registration plate or plates.
(W. Va. Code 17A-9-2)
§ 351.05 IMPROPER USE OF REGISTRATION CARD, PLATE, OR PERMIT.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate, or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plates, or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon under this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code 17A-9-3)
§ 351.06 DRIVER OR MOTORCYCLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   (1)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall
drive any motor vehicle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon
any subdivision street used by the public generally unless the person has a
valid driver’s license issued under the provisions of the West Virginia Code
for the type or class of vehicle being driven.
      (2)   Any person licensed to operate a motor vehicle as provided in the
West Virginia Code may exercise the privilege thereby granted as provided in
the West Virginia Code and, except as otherwise provided by law, shall not be
required to obtain any other license to exercise such privilege by any county,
municipality, or local board or body having authority to adopt local police
regulations.
   (b)   No person, except those hereinafter expressly exempted, shall drive
any motorcycle upon a street or highway in this municipality or upon any
subdivision street, used by the public generally unless the person has a valid
motorcycle license, a valid license which has been endorsed under W. Va. Code
17B-2-7b for motorcycle operation or has a valid motorcycle instruction permit.
(W. Va. Code 17B-2-1)
§ 351.07 PERSONS EXEMPT FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempt from the license required under §
351.06:
   (a)   Any person while operating a motor vehicle in the armed services of
the United States while in the performance of his or her official duties;
   (b)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in the
person’s home state or country unless the Commissioner determines the person’s
home state or country does not extend the same privileges to a resident of this
state, may operate a motor vehicle in this state only as a noncommercial driver
for a period not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year;
   (c)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age, who has in the
person’s immediate possession a valid driver’s license issued to the person in
the person’s home state or country and who is employed in this state, or owns,
maintains, or operates a place or places of business in this state, or engages
in any trade, profession, or occupation in this state, in addition to the
driving privileges extended under division (b) hereof, unless the Commissioner
determines the person’s home state or country does not extend the same
privileges to a resident of this state, may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as a noncommercial driver in traveling to and from the person’s
place or places of employment, place or places of business or place or places
at which the person engages in the trade, profession, or occupation and in the
discharge of the duties of the person’s employment, business, trade,
profession, or occupation if the duties are such that, if performed by a
resident of the state of West Virginia over the age of 18 years of age, the
resident would not be required under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17 to
obtain a Class A, B, C, or D driver’s license; however, this division shall not
exempt any person who is required to obtain a West Virginia driver’s license in
accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code 17B-2-1a;
   (d)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to the
person in his or her home state or country and which meets the requirements of
the Federal Commercial Motor Vehicle Act of 1986, Title XI of Public Law 99-
570, being 49 U.S.C. App. 2701 and unless the Commissioner determines the
person’s home state or country does not extend the same privilege to a resident
of this state may operate a motor vehicle in this state either as a commercial
driver subject to the age limits applicable to commercial driver in this state,
or as a noncommercial driver subject to the limitations imposed on non-resident
drivers in divisions (b) and (c) hereof; and
   (e)   Any person who is a student, properly enrolled and registered in an
accredited school, college, or university in this state, who is at least 16
years of age and who has in his or her immediate possession a valid driver’s
license issued to the person in the person’s home state, notwithstanding the
limitations of divisions (b) and (c) hereof may operate a motor vehicle in this
state only as noncommercial driver; provided, that the state of which the
person is a resident shall extend the same privileges to residents of this
state. This exemption shall be canceled immediately when the student is
graduated from school, college, or university or is expelled or ceases to be a
student.
(W. Va. Code 17B-2-2)
§ 351.08 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall have his or her driver’s license in such person’s
immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the same, upon demand of a magistrate, municipal judge, circuit court
judge, peace officer, or an employee of the Division of Motor Vehicles;
however, no person charged with violating this section shall be convicted if
such person produces in court or the office of the arresting officer a driver’s
license theretofore issued to such person and valid at the time of such
person’s arrest.
(W. Va. Code 17B-2-9)
§ 351.09 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall commit any one of the following acts:
   (a)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her
possession any fictitious or fraudulently altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification;
   (b)   Lend his or her driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
nonoperator’s identification to any other person or knowingly permit the use
thereof by another;
   (c)   Display or represent as one’s own any driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or nonoperator’s identification not issued to him or her;
   (d)   Use a false or fictitious name in any application for a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or nonoperator’s identification or knowingly make a
false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
   (e)   Permit any unlawful use of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or nonoperator’s identification issued to him or her; or
   (f)   Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this
Traffic Code or W. Va. Code Ch. 17.
(W. Va. Code 17B-4-1)
§ 351.10 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any public street or highway of
this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so to do has been
lawfully suspended or revoked.
(W. Va. Code 17B-4-3)
§ 351.11 OWNER OR OPERATOR ALLOWING ANOTHER TO DRIVE.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or under his or her control to be driven upon any street or highway by any
person who is not authorized hereunder or in violation of any of the provisions
of this Traffic Code.
(W. Va. Code 17B-4-4)
§ 351.12 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Every owner or registrant of a motor vehicle required to be registered
and licensed in this state shall maintain security as hereinafter provided in
effect continuously throughout the registration or licensing period except in
the case of a periodic use or seasonal vehicle, in which case the owner or
registrant is required to maintain security upon the vehicle only for the
portion of the year the vehicle is in actual use. As used in this section, a
PERIODIC USE OR SEASONAL VEHICLE means a recreational vehicle, antique motor
vehicle, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle which is stored part of the year
and is used seasonally.
   (b)   Every non-resident owner or registrant of a motor vehicle which is
operated upon any road or highway of this city and which has been physically
present within this state for more than 30 days during the preceding 365 days,
shall thereafter maintain security as hereinafter provided in effect
continuously throughout the period such motor vehicle remains in this state.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly drive or operate upon any road or highway in
this city any motor vehicle upon which security is required by the provisions
of this section unless such security is in effect.
   (d)   Such security shall be provided by one of the following methods:
      (1)   By an insurance policy delivered or issued for the delivery in this
state by an insurance company authorized to issue vehicle liability and
property insurance policies in this state within limits which shall be no less
than the requirements of W. Va. Code 17A-6-10b and 17D-3-5; or
      (2)    By any other method approved by the Commissioner of the Department
of Highways of this state as affording security equivalent to that offered by
the policy of insurance, including qualification as a self insurer under the
provisions of W. Va. Code 17D-6-2.
   (e)   The requirements of this section shall not apply to any motor vehicle
owned by the state or by a political subdivision of this state, nor to any
motor vehicle owned by the federal government.
   (f)   Every person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $200
nor more than $5,000, or imprisoned in the county jail not less than 15 days
nor more than one year, or both fined and imprisoned.
(1-15-91.)
§ 351.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$500; for a second or subsequent violation of the same provision, such person
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (b)   Driving under suspension or revocation.
      (1)   A.   Except as otherwise provided in W. Va. Code 17B-4-3(b) or (d),
or divisions (b)(2) or (b)(3) hereof, whoever drives a motor vehicle on any
street or highway of this municipality at a time when his or her privilege so
to do has been lawfully suspended or revoked shall, for the first offense, be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, such
person, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the third or
any subsequent offense, such person shall be imprisoned for a period of 30 days
and, in addition to such mandatory jail sentence, shall be fined not less than
$150 nor more than $500.
         B.   A record of the conviction of any person under this section upon
a charge of driving a vehicle while the license of such person was suspended
lawfully shall be sent to the State Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully revoked for driving
under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances, or other drugs, or any
combination thereof, or for driving while having an alcoholic concentration in
his or her blood of 0.08% or more, by weight, or for refusing to take a
secondary chemical test of blood alcohol content, for the first offense shall
be imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500; for the second offense, shall be
imprisoned 30 days and in addition to the mandatory jail sentence, shall be
fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000; for the third or any
subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on any public highway at a
time when his or her privilege to do so has been lawfully suspended for driving
while under the age of 21 years with an alcohol concentration in his or her
blood of 0.02% or more, by weight, but less than 0.08%, by weight, shall be
imprisoned for 24 hours or shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500,
or both; for the second offense, the person shall be confined in jail for a
period of 30 days, and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500;
for the third or any subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   An order for home detention by the court pursuant to the provisions
of W. Va. Code 62-11B may be used as an alternative sentence to any period of
incarceration required by this section.
   (c)   Additional penalties. Whoever violates §§
351.02,
351.03,
351.05,
351.09, or
351.11 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
ARTICLE 353: COMMERCIAL DRIVERS
Section
   
353.01   Definitions
   
353.02   Limitation on number of driver’s licenses
   
353.03   Employer responsibilities
   
353.04   Commercial driver’s license required
   
353.05   Exemptions
   
353.06   Drivers prohibited from operating with any alcohol in system
   
353.07   Commercial drivers prohibited from texting
 
   
353.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Commercial vehicles, see TRAF.
Art. 347
   Driver’s licensing, see TRAF.
Art. 351
   Uniform Commercial Driver’s License Act, see W. Va. Code Ch. 17E-1
§ 353.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Traffic Code, the following
definitions apply to this article.
   ALCOHOL. Includes:
      (1)   Any substance containing any form of alcohol, including, but not
limited to, ethanol, methanol, propanol, and isopropanol;
      (2)   Beer, ale, port, or stout and other similar fermented beverages
(including sake or similar products) of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute for malt;
      (3)   Distilled spirits or that substance known as ethyl alcohol,
ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form (including all dilutions and mixtures
thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced); or
      (4)   Wine of not less than 0.5% of alcohol by volume.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. Includes:
      (1)   The number of grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood;
      (2)   The number of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath;
      (3)   The number of grams of alcohol per 67 milliliters of urine; or
      (4)   The number of grams of alcohol per 86 milliliters of serum.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER INSTRUCTION PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to W. Va.
Code 17E-1-9(d).
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with the
requirements of W. Va. Code Ch. 17E-1 to an individual which authorizes the
individual to drive a class of commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or used to transport
passengers or property:
      (1)   If the vehicle has a gross combination vehicle weight rating of
26,001 pounds or more inclusive of a towed unit(s) with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   If the vehicle has a gross vehicle weight rating of more than
26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed to transport 16 or more passengers,
including the driver; or
      (4)   If the vehicle is of any size transporting hazardous materials as
defined in this section.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt; a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or by an authorized administrative tribunal or proceeding; an
unvacated forfeiture of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s
appearance in court; a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court
or the payment of a fine or court cost, or violation of a condition of release
without bail regardless of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended, or
probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Any of the following three actions:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a driver’s license
by the state or jurisdiction of issuance;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privilege to drive a commercial motor
vehicle by a state or other jurisdiction as the result of a violation of state
or local law relating to motor vehicle traffic control other than parking or
vehicle weight except as to violations committed by a special permittee on the
coal resource transportation system or vehicle defect violations; and
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. part 391 (2004).
   DRIVE. To drive, operate, or be in physical control of a motor vehicle in
any place open to the general public for purposes of vehicular traffic. For
purposes of §
353.06, DRIVE includes operation or physical control of a motor vehicle
anywhere in this municipality.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle, in any place open to the general public for purposes
of vehicular traffic, or who is required to hold a commercial driver license.
   DRIVER LICENSE. A license issued by a state to an individual which
authorizes the individual to drive a motor vehicle of a specific class.
   EMPLOYEE. Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, including full-time,
regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent, or occasional drivers; leased
drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors (while in the course of
operating a commercial motor vehicle) who are either directly employed by or
under lease to drive a commercial motor vehicle for an employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the United States, a state or a political
subdivision of a state, who owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle, or
assigns a person to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   FARM VEHICLE. Includes a motor vehicle or combination vehicle registered to
the farm owner or entity operating the farm and used exclusively in the
transportation of agricultural or horticultural products, livestock, poultry,
and dairy products from the farm or orchard on which they are raised or
produced to markets, processing plants, packing houses, canneries, railway
shipping points and cold storage plants, and in the transportation of
agricultural or horticultural supplies and machinery to such farms or orchards
to be used thereon.
   FARMER. Includes owner, tenant, lessee, occupant, or person in control of
the premises used substantially for agricultural or horticultural pursuits, who
is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed driving experience.
   FARMER VEHICLE DRIVER. The person employed and designated by the farmer to
drive a farm vehicle as long as driving is not his or her sole or principal
function on the farm, who is at least 18 years of age with two years licensed
driving experience.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but
not operated upon rails.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A temporary prohibition against driving a commercial
motor vehicle as a result of a determination by a law enforcement officer, an
authorized enforcement officer of a federal, state, Canadian, Mexican, county,
or local jurisdiction, including any special agent of the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 386.72, 392.5, 395.13, or 396.9
or compatible laws or the North American uniform out-of-service criteria that
an imminent hazard exists.
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into or reading text from an
electronic device.
      (1)   This action includes, but is not limited to, short messaging
service, e-mailing, instant messaging and a command or request to access a
World Wide Web page or engaging in any other form of electronic text retrieval
or entry for present or future communication.
      (2)   TEXTING does not include:
         A.   Reading, selecting, or entering a telephone number, an extension
number or voicemail retrieval codes and commands into an electronic device for
the purpose of initiating or receiving a phone call or using voice commands to
initiate or receive a telephone call;
         B.   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system; or
         C.   Using a device capable of performing multiple functions
including, but not limited to, fleet management systems, dispatching devices,
smart phones, citizen band radios, or music players for a purpose that is not
otherwise prohibited by this section.
   VIOLATION OF AN OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. Includes:
      (1)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle during the period the
driver was placed out of service;
      (2)   The operation of a commercial motor vehicle by a driver after the
vehicle was placed out of service and before the required repairs are made; or
      (3)   The operation of any commercial vehicle by a motor carrier
operation after the carrier has been placed out of service.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-4)
§ 353.02 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   No person who drives a commercial motor vehicle shall have more than one
driver’s license at one time.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-4)
§ 353.03 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (a)   Each employer shall require the applicant to provide the information
specified in W. Va. Code 17E-1-5.
   (b)   No employer may knowingly allow, permit, require, or authorize a
driver to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which the
driver:
      (1)   Has a driver’s license suspended, revoked, or canceled by a state,
has lost the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle in a state, or has
been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Has more than one driver’s license at one time, or the commercial
motor vehicle he or she is driving or the motor carrier operation is subject to
an out-of-service order; or
      (3)   Is in violation of any provision of 49 C.F.R. part 382 related to
controlled substances and alcohol use and testing.
   (c)   No employer may require or allow a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle while texting.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-6)
§ 353.04 COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (a)   Except when driving under a commercial driver’s instruction permit
accompanied by the holder of a commercial driver’s license valid for the
vehicle being driven, no person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle unless
the person holds a commercial driver’s license and applicable endorsements
valid for the vehicle they are driving.
   (b)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle while his or her
driving privilege is suspended, revoked, canceled, expired, subject to a
disqualification, or in violation of an out-of-service order.
   (c)   Drivers of a commercial motor vehicle shall have a commercial driver’s
license in their possession at all times while driving.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-7)
§ 353.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Farmers. Bona fide farmers or farm vehicle drivers, as defined,
operating a vehicle otherwise covered by the commercial driver’s license
requirements may be exempted from the provisions of this article only if the
vehicle used is:
      (1)   Driven by a farmer or farm vehicle driver;
      (2)   Used only to transport either agricultural products, farm
machinery, or farm supplies to or from a farm;
      (3)   Not used in the operation of a common or contract motor carrier;
and
      (4)   Used within 150 miles of the qualifying farm. Farmers who wish to
be exempted from the commercial driver’s license requirements must apply to the
Division of Motor Vehicles for a certificate of exemption.
   (b)   Military personnel. Active duty military personnel operating vehicles
being used for military purposes are exempted from the provisions of this
article in accordance with the provisions of 49 C.F.R. § 383.3(c).
   (c)   Firefighting and rescue equipment. Operators of vehicles authorized to
hold an authorized emergency vehicle permit for use of red signal lights only
are exempt from the provisions of this article while the authorized emergency
vehicle permit is in force. Vehicles in this class include, but are not limited
to, firefighters and rescue equipment:
      (1)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal fire
departments;
      (2)   Owned and operated by state, county, and municipal civil defense
organizations;
      (3)   Owned and operated by a manufacturer engaged in a type of business
that requires firefighter equipment to protect the safety of their plants and
its employees; and
      (4)   Owned and operated by volunteer fire departments.
   (d)   Operators of off-road construction and mining equipment. Operators of
equipment which, by its design, appearance, and function, is not intended for
use on a public road, including, without limitation, motorscrapers, backhoes,
motorgraders, compactors, excavators, tractors, trenches, and bulldozers, are
exempt from the provisions of this article; provided, that the exemption
recognized by this division shall not be construed to permit the operation of
such equipment on any public road except such operation as may be required for
a crossing of such road; provided, however, that no such equipment may be
operated on a public road for a distance exceeding 500 feet from the place
where such equipment entered upon the public road.
   (e)    Exempt vehicles. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act of
1999, being 49 C.F.R. §§ 350-101 et seq. exempts vehicles used exclusively for
personal use such as recreation vehicles and rental trucks used only to
transport the driver’s personal or household property.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-8)
§ 353.06 DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM OPERATING WITH ANY ALCOHOL IN SYSTEM.
   (a)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, any person who drives, operates, or is in
physical control of a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration in his or her blood, breath, or urine of 0.04% or more, by
weight, shall be imprisoned for not less than 24 hours nor more than 30 days,
and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. A person convicted of
a second or any subsequent offense under the provisions of this division shall
be imprisoned for a period of 30 days, and the court may, in its discretion,
impose a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000.
   (b)   A person who violates the provisions of division (a) above shall be
treated in the same manner set forth in W. Va. Code 17C-19-3, as if he or she
had been arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol or of any
controlled substance.
   (c)   In addition to any other penalties provided by the West Virginia Code
or these codified ordinances, a person who drives, operates, or is in physical
control of a commercial motor vehicle having any measurable alcohol in such
person’s system or who refuses to take a preliminary breath test to determine
such person’s blood alcohol content as provided by W. Va. Code 17E-1-15 shall
be placed out of service for 24 hours by the arresting law enforcement officer.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-14)
§ 353.07 COMMERCIAL DRIVERS PROHIBITED FROM TEXTING.
   (a)   No commercial driver may engage in texting while driving a commercial
motor vehicle.
   (b)   No motor carrier may allow or require its drivers to engage in texting
while driving a commercial motor vehicle.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section only, and unless a more restrictive
prohibition is prescribed in the West Virginia Code, driving means operating a
commercial motor vehicle with the motor running, including while temporarily
stationed because of traffic, a traffic control device or other momentary
delays. Driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or
without the motor running when the driver moved the vehicle to the side of or
off a highway, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5, and halted in a location where
the vehicle can safely remain stationary.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-14(a))
§ 353.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is provided in this article, whoever violates any
provision of this article shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than
$1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both except that for the
second violation of §
353.04, the offender shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For the third or any subsequent
conviction for violation of §
353.04, the offender shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $2,500,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17E-1-25)
ARTICLE 355: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
355.01   Definition of all-terrain and utility terrain vehicle
   
355.02   Acts prohibited by operator
   
355.03   Safety awareness courses
   
355.04   Rental dealers required to provide safety equipment
   
355.05   Private property exemption
   
355.06   Exemption for farm, commercial use; current regulations
   
355.07   Applicability of rules of operation
 
   
355.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   State law provisions, see W. Va. Code Ch. 17F-1
§ 355.01 DEFINITION OF ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE.
   (a)   As used in this article:
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any motor vehicle, designed for off-highway
use and designed to travel on not less than three low-pressure tires, having a
seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control and intended by the manufacturer to be used by a single
operator or by an operator and no more than one passenger.
      UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with four or more low-pressure
tires designed for off-highway use having bench or bucket seating for each
occupant and a steering wheel for control.
      MOTORCYCLE. Any motor vehicle manufactured with no more than two wheels
and having a seat or a saddle for the use of the operator.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for off-highway use and includes
all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles and off-road
vehicles.
      OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A vehicle that is suitable for off-road use. It
includes a four-wheel drive vehicle such as a Jeep, pickup or sport utility
vehicle. It also includes a specially designed, modified or customized off-road
vehicle that is of a similar size to a vehicle manufactured for highway use.
   (b)   As used in this article, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES and VEHICLE, or the
plural, mean all-terrain vehicles, utility-terrain vehicles, motorcycles and
off-highway vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-9)
§ 355.02 ACTS PROHIBITED BY OPERATOR.
   (a)   No all-terrain vehicle may be operated in this municipality:
      (1)   On any interstate highway except by public safety personnel
responding to emergencies;
      (2)   On any road or highway with a center line or more than two lanes
except for the purpose of crossing the road, street or highway, if:
         A.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
         B.   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         C.   The operator yields his or her right-of-way to all oncoming
traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         D.   Both the headlight and taillight are illuminated when the
crossing is made if the vehicle is so equipped;
      (3)   With more than one passenger unless more passengers are allowed
under manufacturers’ recommendations;
      (4)   With a passenger under the age of eighteen, unless the operator has
at a minimum a level of two intermediate driver’s license or its equivalent or
is eighteen years of age or older;
      (5)   Unless riders under the age of eighteen are wearing size
appropriate protective helmets that meet the current performance specifications
established by the American National Standards Institute Standard § 90.1, the
United States Department of Transportation Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard No. 218 or Snell safety standards for protective headgear for vehicle
users;
      (6)   Anytime from sunset to sunrise without an illuminated headlight or
lights and taillights;
      (7)   Without a manufacturer-installed or equivalent spark arrester and a
manufacturer-installed or equivalent muffler in proper working order and
properly connected to the vehicle’s exhaust system; or
      (8)   Unless operating in compliance with the provisions of §
355.03 of this article.
   (b)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated upon the shoulder, or as far to
the right on the pavement as possible when there is not enough shoulder to
safely operate, on any road, street or highway referred to in division (a)(2)
above other than an interstate highway for a distance not to exceed ten miles
to travel between a residence or lodging and off-road trails, fields and areas
of operation, including stops for food, fuel, supplies and restrooms, if:
      (1)   The vehicle is operated at speeds of 25 mph or less; and
      (2)   The vehicle is operated at any time from sunset to sunrise the all-
terrain vehicle must be equipped with headlights and taillights which must be
illuminated.
   (c)   Operation of an all-terrain vehicle in accordance with division (b)
above shall not constitute operation of a motor vehicle on a road or highway of
this municipality as contemplated by the provisions of §
355.07 of this article.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, the
municipality may authorize the operation of all-terrain vehicles on certain
specified roads, streets or highways which are marked with centerline pavement
markings, other than interstate highways, to allow participation in parades,
exhibitions and other special events, in emergencies or for specified purposes.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-1)
§ 355.03 SAFETY AWARENESS COURSES.
   (a)   On and after January 1, 2005, no person under the age of 18 may
operate an all-terrain vehicle without a certificate of completion of a vehicle
rider awareness course as offered or approved by the Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles.
   (b)   The provisions of division (a) above do not apply to the operation of
an all-terrain vehicle on any private or public recreational trail or area or
affiliated trail or area operated by any person or entity which has in place a
safety program.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-2)
§ 355.04 RENTAL DEALERS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   Any person or entity renting or leasing all-terrain vehicles for
recreational purposes must provide protective helmets as defined by the
provisions of §
355.02(a)(5) of this article, to all persons using such vehicles who are under
the age of eighteen and offer protective helmets to all persons eighteen and
older using the rented or leased vehicles: Provided, that for the provisions of
this section to be applicable, the age and identity of the users of the all-
terrain vehicle must be disclosed to the person or entity providing the rented
or leased vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-4)
§ 355.05 PRIVATE PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
   Except as provided by the provisions of §
355.02(a)(3) to (5) of this article, and except as provided by the provisions
of §
355.03 of this article, the provisions of this article do not apply if the all-
terrain vehicle is operated exclusively on lands owned or leased by the vehicle
owner or on private lands of others with the owner’s permission.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-5)
§ 355.06 EXEMPTION FOR FARM, COMMERCIAL USE; CURRENT REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Except as provided by the provisions of §
355.02(a)(4) and (5) of this article, nothing in this article may be construed
to preclude or limit the use or operation of all-terrain vehicles for lawful
nonrecreational commercial purposes, including, but not limited to, farm use,
oil and gas operations, timbering, surveying and public utilities access.
   (b)   Nothing in this article may be construed to supersede or contravene
the provisions of any agreement between the state and any private or
governmental entity entered into prior to the effective date of this article,
or any lawfully promulgated legislative rule, including any emergency
legislative rule, regulating the operation of all-terrain vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-6)
§ 355.07 APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF OPERATION.
   (a)   Every person operating an all-terrain vehicle upon a public road or
highway of this municipality shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to the driver of a vehicle by the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and this
Traffic Code except where inconsistent with the provisions of this article and
except as to those provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 17C and this Traffic Code
which by their nature can have no application.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (a) above, a motor vehicle
operator’s license is not required of an operator of an all-terrain vehicle
when he or she is operating said vehicle in conformity with the provisions of §
355.02(a)(2) or (b) of this article except when the operator is under the age
of eighteen and is transporting a passenger under the age of 18.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-7)
§ 355.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Except as provided in the provisions of division (b) below and in
addition to any other legal remedy for violation of civil or criminal
provisions of this code, any person who violates the provisions of this article
or who owns or has control over an all-terrain vehicle and knowingly permits it
to be used in violation of the provisions of this article shall be fined not
more than $100.
   (b)   Any parent, legal guardian or person who has actual responsibility for
a child under 18 years of age who knows or should have known the child is
operating or is a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle without a helmet as
required by the provisions of §
355.02 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   For a first offense, a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100
or not more than ten hours of community service, or both;
      (2)   For a second offense, a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$200 or not more than 20 hours of community service, or both; and
      (3)   For a third or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than $200 nor
more than $500 or not more than 100 hours of community service, or both.
(W. Va. Code 17F-1-8)
CHAPTER 7: PARKING
Article
   
361.   Parking Generally
   
365.   Junk and Abandoned Vehicles
ARTICLE 361: PARKING GENERALLY
Section
   
361.01   Prohibition against parking on streets or highway
   
361.02   Police may remove illegally stopped vehicles
   
361.03   Prohibited stopping, standing, or parking places
   
361.04   Vehicles parked on private property
   
361.05   Manner of angle and parallel parking
   
361.06   Accessible parking
   
361.07   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
361.08   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
361.09   Truck loading zones
   
361.10   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
361.11   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
361.12   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
 
   
361.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Authority to regulate the standing or parking of vehicles, see W. Va. Code
17C-2-8(a)(1)
   Authority to regulate parallel and angle parking, see W. Va. Code 17C-13-4
   Duty to stop engine, set brake on grade, and remove key, see TRAF. 349.01
   Impounding of abandoned vehicles, see TRAF. 303.07
§ 361.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (a)   Upon any street or highway outside of a business or residence
district, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or main-traveled part of the street or
highway when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such
part of the street or highway, but in every event an unobstructed width of the
street or highway opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicles shall be
available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway or
street.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or main-traveled portion of a street or highway in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
(W. Va. Code 17C-13-1)
§ 361.02 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
highway in violation of §
361.01, such officer is hereby authorized to move such vehicle or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position
off the paved or main-traveled part of such street or highway.
   (b)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(W. Va. Code 17C-13-2)
§ 361.03 PROHIBITED STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   In a properly designated fire lane;
      (6)   On a crosswalk;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (8)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (9)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
highway or within a street or highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping, standing, or parking,
or where the curbing or street is painted yellow or red, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by signs;
      (15)   Within 20 feet of any mail receptacle served regularly by a
carrier using a motor vehicle for daily deliveries, if such parking interferes
with or causes delay in the carrier’s schedule;
      (16)   Upon any controlled-access highway;
      (17)   At any place on any street or highway where the safety and
convenience of the traveling public is thereby endangered;
      (18)   Over or across any lines or marks established by the municipality
to indicate parking spaces; and
      (19)   In front of a wheelchair accessible ramp or curb cut which is part
of a sidewalk designed for use by the general public when the ramp or curb cut
is properly marked with blue paint.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(W. Va. Code 17C-13-3)
§ 361.04 VEHICLES PARKED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No driver of a vehicle shall stop, park, or leave standing unattended any
vehicle on a private road or driveway or on private property without having
express or implied permission from the owner, tenant, or lessee of such land.
The owner, tenant, or lessee of such private road or driveway or private
property may move, or have moved, any vehicle stopped, parked, or left standing
unattended on his or her private road, driveway, or private property as above
prohibited without any liability for the cost of moving any vehicle, nor shall
he or she be liable to the owner of the vehicle for any damage done to such
vehicle in moving it, unless the owner, tenant, or lessee of such private road
or driveway or private property was negligent in removing or authorizing the
removal of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall be responsible to the
persons removing such vehicle for paying all removal costs. Any person who
removes any vehicle under the provisions of this section shall notify the State
Police of such action, and, in addition notify the Police Department.
(W. Va. Code 17C-14-13)
§ 361.05 MANNER OF ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (a)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the curb-side wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and not more than 18 inches from the curb, unless it is
impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop shall be as
close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary to discharge and
receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise.
   (b)   This section does not apply to streets or parts thereof where angle
parking is lawfully permitted; however, no angle parking shall be permitted on
a state or federal-aid route unless approved by the State Commissioner of
Highways.
   (c)   Upon streets where angle parking is permitted, no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway as is indicated by appropriate signs or marks.
   (d)   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or street with the
vehicle facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side
of the road or street.
§ 361.06 ACCESSIBLE PARKING.
   (a)   As used in this section, the following terms have the meanings
ascribed to them in this division:
      A PERSON OR APPLICANT WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. A person who is a
citizen of West Virginia and as determined by a physician, allopath or
osteopath chiropractor, advanced nurse practitioner, or physician’s assistant
licensed to practice in West Virginia:
         A.   Cannot walk 200 feet without stopping to rest;
         B.   Cannot walk without the use of or assistance from a brace, cane,
crutch, prosthetic device, wheelchair, other assistive device, or another
person;
         C.   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that the person’s
force (respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by
spirometry, is less than one liter or the arterial oxygen tension is less than
60 mm/hg on room air at rest;
         D.   Uses portable oxygen;
         E.   Has a cardiac condition to such an extent that the person’s
functional limitations are classified in severity as Class III or Class IV
according to standards established by the American Heart Association; or
         F.   Is severely limited in his or her ability to walk because of an
arthritic, neurological, or other orthopedic physical condition.
      ACCESSIBLE PARKING. Formerly known as “handicapped parking” is the
present phrase consistent with language within the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA).
      COMMERCIAL FACILITY. A facility whose operations affect commerce and
which are intended for non-residential use by a private entity.
      PARKING ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL. Includes any law enforcement officer as
defined by W. Va. Code 30-29-1, and private security guards, parking personnel,
and other personnel authorized by a city, county, or the state to issue parking
citations.
      PLACE(S) OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A facility or facilities operated by a
private entity whose operations affect commerce and fall within at least one of
the following categories:
         A.   Inns, hotels, motels, and other places of lodging;
         B.   Restaurants, bars, or other establishments serving food or drink;
         C.   Motion picture houses, theaters, concert halls, stadiums, or
other places of exhibition or entertainment;
         D.   Auditoriums, convention centers, lecture halls, or other places
of public gatherings;
         E.   Bakeries, grocery stores, clothing stores, hardware stores,
shopping centers, or other sales or rental establishments;
         F.   Laundromats, dry cleaners, banks, barber and beauty shops, travel
agencies, shoe repair shops, funeral parlors, gas or service stations, offices
of accountants and attorneys, pharmacies, insurance offices, offices of
professional health care providers, hospitals, or other service establishments;
         G.   Terminals, depots, or other stations used for public
transportation;
         H.   Museums, libraries, galleries, or other places of public display
or collection;
         I.   Parks, zoos, amusement parks, or other places of recreation;
         J.   Public or private nursery, elementary, secondary, undergraduate
or post-graduate schools, or other places of learning and day care centers,
senior citizen centers, homeless shelters, food banks, adoption agencies, or
other social service establishments; and
         K.   Gymnasiums, health spas, bowling alleys, golf courses, or other
places of exercise or recreation.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. State or local government or any department, agency,
special purpose district, or other instrumentality of a state or local
government.
      PUBLIC FACILITY. All or any part of any buildings, structures, sites,
complexes, roads, parking lots, or other real or personal property, including
the site where the facility is located.
      REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD (PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY). A two-sided,
hanger style placard measuring three inches by nine and one-half inches, with
all of the following on each side:
         A.   The international symbol of access, measuring at least three
inches in height, centered on the placard, in white on a blue background for
permanent designations and in white on a red background for temporary
designations;
         B.   An identification number measuring one inch in height;
         C.   An expiration date in numbers measuring one inch in height; and
         D.   The seal or other identifying symbol of the issuing authority.
      SPECIAL REGISTRATION PLATE. A registration plate that displays the
international symbol of access, as adopted by the Rehabilitation International
Organization in 1969 at its Eleventh World Congress on Rehabilitation of the
Disabled, in a color that contrasts with the background, in letters and numbers
the same size as those on the plate, and which may be used in lieu of a regular
registration plate.
   (b)   An accessible parking space should comply with the provisions of the
Americans with Disabilities Act accessibility guidelines, contained in 28
C.F.R. part 36, Appendix A, § 4.6. In particular, the parking space should be a
minimum of eight feet wide with an adjacent eight-foot access aisle for vans
having side mounted hydraulic lifts or ramps or a five-foot access aisle for
standard vehicles. Access aisles should be marked using diagonal two- to four-
inch wide stripes spaced every 12 or 24 inches apart along with the words “no
parking” in painted letters which are at least 12 inches in height. All
accessible parking spaces should have a signpost in front or adjacent to the
accessible parking space displaying the international symbol of access sign
mounted at a minimum of eight feet above the pavement or sidewalk and the top
of the sign. Lines or markings on the pavement or curbs for parking spaces and
access aisles may be in any color, although blue is the generally accepted
color for accessible parking.
   (c)   A vehicle displaying a disabled veterans special registration plate
issued pursuant to W. Va. Code 17A-3-14(c)(6) shall be recognized and accepted
as meeting the requirements of this section.
   (d)   A vehicle from any other state, United States territory, or foreign
country displaying an officially issued special registration plate, placard, or
decal bearing the international symbol of access shall be recognized and
accepted as meeting the requirements of this section, regardless of where the
plate, placard, or decal is mounted or displayed on the vehicle.
   (e)   Stopping, standing, or parking places marked with the international
symbol of access shall be designated in close proximity to all public entities
including state, county, and municipal buildings and facilities, places of
public accommodation, and commercial facilities. These parking places shall be
reserved solely for persons with a mobility impairment and disabled veterans at
all times.
   (f)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle properly displays a valid, unexpired
special registration plate or removable windshield placard may park the vehicle
for unlimited periods of time in parking zones unrestricted as to length of
parking time permitted; provided, that this privilege does not mean that the
vehicle may park in any zone where stopping, standing, or parking is prohibited
or which creates parking zones for special types of vehicles or which prohibits
parking during heavy traffic periods during specified rush hours or where
parking would clearly present a traffic hazard. To the extent any provision of
any ordinance of any political subdivision of this state is contrary to the
provisions of this section, the provisions of this section take precedence and
apply.
      (2)   The parking privileges provided for in this division apply only
during those times when the vehicle is being used for the loading or unloading
of a person with a mobility impairment. Any person who knowingly exercises, or
attempts to exercise these privileges at a time when the vehicle is not being
used for the loading or unloading of a person with a mobility impairment, upon
first conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in
addition to any other penalty, he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined
$300; and upon third and subsequent convictions thereof, in addition to any
other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $500.
   (g)   (1)   Any person whose vehicle does not display a valid, special
registration plate or removable windshield placard may not stop, stand, or park
a motor vehicle in an area designated, zoned, or marked for accessible parking
with signs or instructions displaying the international symbol of access,
either by itself or with explanatory text. The signs may be mounted on a post
or a wall in front of the accessible parking space and instructions may appear
on the ground or pavement, but use of both methods is preferred. Accessible
parking spaces for vans having an eight-foot adjacent access aisle should be
designated as “van accessible” but may be used by any vehicle displaying a
valid special registration plate or removable windshield placard.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division shall be
fined $200; upon second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he
or she may otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent
convictions thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise
incur, shall be fined $500.
   (h)   All signs that designate areas as “accessible parking” or that display
the international symbol of access shall also include the words “Up to $500
fine”.
   (i)   No person may stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle in an area
designated or marked off as an accessible aisle to a van-accessible parking
space or regular accessible parking space. Any person, including a driver of a
vehicle displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special registration
plate, who violates the provisions of this division shall be fined $200; upon
second conviction thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may
otherwise incur, shall be fined $300; and upon third and subsequent convictions
thereof, in addition to any other penalty he or she may otherwise incur, shall
be fined $500.
   (j)   Parking enforcement personnel who otherwise enforce parking violations
may issue citations for violations of this section and shall reference the
number on the vehicle’s license plate, since the driver normally will not be
present.
   (k)   Law enforcement agencies may establish a program to use trained
volunteers to collect information necessary to issue citations to persons who
illegally park in designated accessible parking spaces. Any law enforcement
agency choosing to establish a program shall provide for workers’ compensation
and liability coverage. The volunteers shall photograph the illegally parked
vehicle and complete a form, to be developed by supervising law enforcement
agencies, that includes the vehicle’s license plate number, date, time, and
location of the illegally parked vehicle. The photographs must show the vehicle
in the accessible space and a readable view of the license plate. Within the
discretion of the supervising law enforcement agency, the volunteers may issue
citations or the volunteers may submit the photographs of the illegally parked
vehicle and the form to the supervising law enforcement agency, who may issue a
citation, which includes the photographs and the form, to the owner of the
illegally parked vehicle. Volunteers shall be trained on the requirements for
citations for vehicles parked in marked, zoned, or designated accessible
parking areas by the supervising law enforcement agency.
   (l)   The municipality in enforcing this section shall retain all fines and
associated late fees. These revenues shall be used first to fund the provisions
of division (k) above, if adopted by the municipality or otherwise shall go
into the municipality’s General Revenue Fund.
(W. Va. Code 17C-13-6)
§ 361.07 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which
is inoperative and which has been abandoned on public property for any period
of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher; or any motor
vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without
consent of the owner or person in control of the property for any period of
time over five days; or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
unattended, discarded, deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed
building, a licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher;
provided, that a motor vehicle, or major part thereof, shall not be considered
an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE if:
         A.   The owner of the motor vehicle is storing the motor vehicle on
the owner’s property;
         B.   The motor vehicle is being stored for the purpose of using its
parts on other motor vehicles owned by the owner;
         C.   The owner owns other motor vehicles similar to the motor vehicle
being stored; and
         D.   The owner is a business licensed to do business in the State of
West Virginia and not in the primary business of offering motor vehicles or
parts thereof for sale.
      ENCLOSED BUILDING. A structure surrounded by walls or one continuous wall
and having a roof enclosing the entire structure and includes a permanent
appendage thereto.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, and motorcycles.
      PERSON. A natural person, corporation, firm, partnership, association, or
society, and the plural as well as the singular.
(W. Va. Code 17-24A-1)
   (b)   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited. No person shall, within this
municipality, abandon a motor vehicle or major part thereof upon the right-of-
way of any public highway, upon any other public property or upon any private
property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the property,
or upon property owned or controlled by that person, unless it be at a licensed
salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or a business
licensed to do business in the State of West Virginia and not in the primary
business of offering motor vehicles or parts thereof for sale.
(W. Va. Code 17-24A-2)
§ 361.08 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon any street within the municipality for
the principal purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (b)   Displaying advertising;
   (c)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by an emergency; and/or
   (d)   Relieving the crowded condition of any parking lot, used car lot,
automobile sales lot, repair garage, automobile sales agency, or used car sales
agency.
§ 361.09 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivering or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
§ 361.10 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (b)   The operator of a bus shall not stop, stand, or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or
their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted as such, except
in case of an emergency.
   (c)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop on a public street in
such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage
shall be in a position with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further
than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so
as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated and posted
as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking provisions at
any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
§ 361.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
§ 361.12 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked was so parked by the defendant. A certified copy of
registration from the Department of Motor Vehicles shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 361.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   General article penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this
article for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than
$100; upon a second conviction within one year thereafter shall be fined not
more than $200; and upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (b)   Abandoned and junk vehicles. Whoever violates §
361.07 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
ARTICLE 365: JUNK AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
365.01   Definitions
   
365.02   Abandonment of motor vehicle prohibited
   
365.03   Junked motor vehicles prohibited
   
365.04   Removal
   
365.05   Notification to motor vehicle owner and lienholders
   
365.06   Disposal
   
365.07   Proceeds from sale
   
365.08   Injunctive relief; additional remedy
§ 365.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is
inoperative and which has been abandoned on public or private property for any
period of time over five days, other than in an enclosed building or in a
licensed salvage yard or at the business establishment of a demolisher, or any
motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which has remained illegally on public or
private property for any period of time over five days, or any motor vehicle,
or major part thereof, which has remained on private property without consent
of the owner or person in control of the property for any period of time over
three days, or any motor vehicle, or major part thereof, which is unattended,
discarded, deserted, and unlicensed and is not in an enclosed building, a
licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a demolisher.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, or any part thereof (other than an on
premises farm utility vehicle), which is discarded, wrecked, ruined, scrapped,
or dismantled, cannot pass the state inspection required by W. Va. Code Art.
17C-16, and is either not serving a functional purpose or use or is not in an
enclosed building, a licensed salvage yard, or the actual possession of a
demolisher.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is or was self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, and motorcycles.
§ 365.02 ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (a)    No person shall, within this city, abandon a motor vehicle upon the
right-of-way of any public highway, upon any other public property, or upon any
private property which he or she does not own, lease, rent, or otherwise
control unless it be at a licensed salvage yard or at the business
establishment of a demolisher.
   (b)    Any person who violates any provision of division (a) above shall be
guilty of an offense against this section, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not less than $25 not more than $500 or imprisoned in the county jail
nor more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
§ 365.03 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, within this city, place or deposit any junked motor vehicle
upon the right-of-way of any public highway or upon any other public property;
nor shall any person, within this city, place or deposit any junked motor
vehicle upon any private property which he or she does not own, lease, rent, or
otherwise control unless it be at a licensed salvage yard or at the business
establishment of a demolisher. Any person who violates any provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offense against this section, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 or
imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days, or both fined and
imprisoned.
§ 365.04 REMOVAL.
   When the Police Department has knowledge of or discovers or finds any
abandoned motor vehicle, and junked motor vehicle, old vehicle tire, or
inoperative or abandoned household appliance on either public or private
property, the Department shall take the same into its custody and possession,
and for this purpose the Department may employ its own personnel, equipment,
and facilities or, subject to the availability of funds for such purpose, may
hire persons, equipment, and facilities for the purpose of removing,
preserving, and storing abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicle into
custody and possession from private property, the Police Department shall give
the private property owner and the owner of said motor vehicle, if
ascertainable, 30 days’ notice by registered or certified mail that such action
will be taken unless the said motor vehicle is restored to a functional use.
§ 365.05 NOTIFICATION TO MOTOR VEHICLE OWNER AND LIENHOLDERS.
   (a)    The Police Department, having taken into its custody and possession
an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle shall, within seven days
after taking custody and possession thereof, notify the last known registered
owner of such motor vehicle and all lienholders of record that such motor
vehicle has been taken into custody and possession, such notification to be by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall
contain a description of such motor vehicle, including the year, make, model,
manufacturer’s serial or identification number, or any other number which may
have been assigned to such motor vehicle by the State Commissioner of Motor
Vehicles and any distinguishing marks; set forth the location of the facility
where such motor vehicle is being held and the location where such motor
vehicle was taken into custody and possession; inform the owner and any
lienholders of record of their right to reclaim such motor vehicle within ten
days after the date notice was received by the owner or lienholders, upon
payment of all towing, preservation, and storage charges resulting from taking
and placing such motor vehicle into custody and possession, and state that the
failure of the owner or lienholders of record to exercise their right to
reclaim such motor vehicle within such ten-day period shall be deemed a waiver
by the owner and all lienholders of record of all right, title, and interest in
such motor vehicle and of their consent to the sale or disposal of the
abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle at a public auction or to a
licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
   (b)    If the identity of the last registered owner of the abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle cannot be determined, or if the certificate of
registration or certificate of title contains no address for the owner, or if
it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
addresses of all lienholders, notice shall be published as a Class I legal
advertisement in compliance with the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 59-3, and
the publication area shall be this county and such notice shall be sufficient
to meet all requirements of notice pursuant to this article. Any notice by
publication may contain multiple listings of abandoned motor vehicles and
junked motor vehicles. The notice shall be published within seven days after
such motor vehicle is taken into custody and possession and shall have the same
contents required for a notice pursuant to division (a) above, except that the
ten-day period shall run from the date such notice is published as aforesaid.
   (c)   The consequences and effect of failure to reclaim an abandoned motor
vehicle or junked motor vehicle within the ten-day period after notice is
received by registered or certified mail or within ten days after the notice is
published in a newspaper as aforesaid shall be set forth in such notice.
§ 365.06 DISPOSAL.
   (a)    If an abandoned motor vehicle or junked motor vehicle is not
reclaimed as provided in §
365.05, the Police Department shall sell it either at a public auction or to a
licensed salvage yard or demolisher. The purchaser of such motor vehicle shall
take title to such motor vehicle free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership, and shall receive a sales receipt from the Police Department. The
sales receipt at such sale shall be sufficient title only for purposes of
transferring such motor vehicle to a licensed salvage yard or to a demolisher
for demolition, wrecking, or dismantling, and no further titling of such motor
vehicle shall be necessary by either the purchaser at the auction, the licensed
salvage yard or the demolisher, who shall be exempt from the payment of any
fees and taxes required under W. Va. Code Ch. 17A-3 (as so provided in W. Va.
Code 17-23-2); provided, that the purchaser at the auction must place such
motor vehicle in the possession of a licensed salvage yard or demolisher within
20 days from the date he or she purchased such motor vehicle and the licensed
salvage yard or demolisher must demolish, wreck, or dismantle such motor
vehicle within six months after taking possession of such motor vehicle and if
such licensed salvage yard or demolisher does not, such licensed salvage yard
or demolisher shall be required to pay all fees and taxes required under W. Va.
Code Ch. 17A-3 (as so provided in W. Va. Code 17-23-2).
   (b)   When the Police Department has in its custody and possession old
vehicle tires or inoperative or abandoned household appliances collected in
accordance with this article, it shall sell such property from time to time at
public auction or to a licensed salvage yard or demolisher.
§ 365.07 PROCEEDS FROM SALE.
   (a)   From the proceeds of any such sale, the city shall reimburse itself
for any expenses it may have incurred in removing, towing, preserving, and
storing said property and the expenses of conducting any auction and any notice
and publication expenses incurred pursuant to this article.
   (b)   Any remainder from the proceeds of such sale shall be deposited in the
city treasury to be kept and maintained as a special revolving account,
designated as the Abandoned and Junked Property Fund; provided, that any
remainder from the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle or junked
motor vehicle after payment of such expenses shall be held for the last
registered owner of such motor vehicle or any lienholder for 90 days, after
which time, if no owner or lienholder claims the remainder, it shall be
deposited in said special fund.
   (c)   Any money so collected and deposited in such special fund shall be
used solely for the payment of auction, towing, removing, preserving, storing,
notice, and publication costs which result from taking other abandoned motor
vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old vehicle tires, and inoperative or
abandoned household appliances into custody and possession; provided, that
whenever the abandoned and junked vehicle fund exceeds the sum of $500, the
City Council may, by resolution, transfer such excess to the General Fund.
§ 365.08 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF; ADDITIONAL REMEDY.
   In addition to all other remedies provided for in this article, the City
Attorney, of his or her own volition or at the instance of any citizen,
resident, or taxpayer of the city, may apply to the circuit court, or the judge
thereof in vacation, for an injunction to restrain, prevent, or abate the
maintenance and storage of abandoned motor vehicles, junked motor vehicles, old
vehicle tires, or inoperative or abandoned household appliances, in violation
of any provision of this article.
CHAPTER 9: PEDESTRIANS AND BICYCLES
Article
   
371.   Pedestrians
   373.   Bicycles
ARTICLE 371: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
371.01   Compliance with traffic regulations
   
371.02   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
371.03   Crossing roadway outside crosswalk
   
371.04   Drivers to exercise due care
   
371.05   Moving upon right half of crosswalk
   
371.06   Walking along streets and highways; soliciting rides
   
371.07   Persons working on streets and highways
   
371.08   Protection of blind pedestrians
   
371.09   Electric personal assistive mobility device
 
   
371.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Pedestrian defined, see TRAF.
301.21
   Pedestrians at traffic signal, see TRAF.
313.03
   Pedestrian control signal, see TRAF.
313.04
§ 371.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
provided in §
313.03, but at all other places pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges
and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-1(a))
§ 371.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down, or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. This provision
shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
371.03(b).
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-2)
§ 371.03 CROSSING ROADWAY OUTSIDE CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (c)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-3)
§ 371.04 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-4)
§ 371.05 MOVING UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-5)
§ 371.06 WALKING ALONG STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; SOLICITING RIDES.
   (a)   Where sidewalks are provided, no pedestrian shall walk along and upon
an adjacent roadway.
   (b)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a street or highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of
the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (c)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-6)
§ 371.07 PERSONS WORKING ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to persons engaged in
maintenance or construction work on a street or highway whenever he or she is
notified of their presence by an official traffic control device or flagger.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-8)
§ 371.08 PROTECTION OF BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a blind pedestrian who knows, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should know, that such pedestrian is blind because
such pedestrian is carrying a cane predominantly white or metallic in color
with or without a red tip, or is using a guide dog or otherwise, shall exercise
care commensurate with the situation to avoid injuring such pedestrian.
(W. Va. Code 5-15-5)
§ 371.09 ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, the definition of an ELECTRIC PERSONAL
ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE is the same definition as previously set forth in §
301.081 and OPERATOR shall refer to the operator of an electric personal
assistive mobility device.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10A-1)
   (b)   An electric personal assistive mobility device shall be equipped with:
      (1)   Front, rear, and side reflectors;
      (2)   A braking system that enables the operator to bring the device to a
controlled stop; and
      (3)   If operated at any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise, a lamp that emits a white light that sufficiently
illuminates the area in front of the device.
   (c)   An operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device
traveling on a sidewalk, roadway, or bicycle path shall have the rights and
duties of a pedestrian and shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
pedestrians. An operator shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
   (d)   Except as provided in this section, no other provisions of the motor
vehicle code shall apply to electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10A-2)
§ 371.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this article, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not more than $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter, shall be fined not more than $200; and
upon a third or subsequent conviction, shall be fined not more than $500.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10-7)
   (b)   An operator who violates a provision of §
371.09 shall receive a warning for the first offense. For a second or
subsequent offense, the operator shall be punished by a fine of not less than
$10 and not greater than $100.
(W. Va. Code 17C-10A-2)
ARTICLE 373: BICYCLES
Section
   
373.01   Compliance; code application to bicycles
   
373.02   Obedience to traffic rules; exceptions
   
373.03   Riding upon seats; number of persons
   
373.04   Attaching bicycle or sled to vehicle
   
373.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
373.06   Carrying articles
   
373.07   Lights and reflector on bicycle; brakes
   
373.08   Reckless operation; control, course, and speed
   
373.09   Bicycle helmets for children
 
   
373.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to regulate bicycle operation, see W. Va. Code 17C-2-8(a)(8)
   Bicycle defined, see TRAF.
301.03
   Moped equipment and operation, see TRAF.
345.29
§ 373.01 COMPLIANCE; CODE APPLICATION TO BICYCLES.
   (a)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this article.
   (b)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (c)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or highway or upon any path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-1)
§ 373.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this Traffic Code, except as to special regulations in this article
and except as to those provisions of this Traffic Code which by their nature
can have no application.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-2)
§ 373.03 RIDING UPON SEATS; NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-3)
§ 373.04 ATTACHING BICYCLE OR SLED TO VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled,
or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon
a roadway.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-4)
§ 373.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (a)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall ride in the lane marked for bicycle use or, if no lane is marked for
bicycle use, as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway except under any of the following situations:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding
in the same direction;
      (2)   When preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private
road or driveway; or
      (3)   When reasonably necessary to avoid any condition or potential
conflict including, but not limited to, a fixed or moving object, parked or
moving vehicle, bicycle, pedestrian, animal, surface hazard, turn lane, or
substandard-width lane, which makes it unsafe to continue along the right-hand
curb or edge or within a bicycle lane. For the purposes of this division, a
SUBSTANDARD-WIDTH LANE is a lane that is too narrow for a bicycle and another
vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (b)   Any person operating a bicycle upon a one-way roadway with two or more
marked traffic lanes may ride as near the left-hand curb or edge of such
roadway as practicable.
   (c)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway may not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-5)
   (d)   It is illegal to ride any skate boards or skates of any kind on the
streets and sidewalks in the city limits.
§ 373.06 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-6)
§ 373.07 LIGHTS AND REFLECTOR ON BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   (a)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red
reflector.
   (b)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11-7)
§ 373.08 RECKLESS OPERATION; CONTROL, COURSE, AND SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle:
   (a)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the life,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (b)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (c)   In a weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is
necessary for safe operation in compliance with law;
   (d)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals, or as provided in §
373.06; or
   (e)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
§ 373.09 BICYCLE HELMETS FOR CHILDREN.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with wheels designed to transport, by
the action of pedaling, one or more persons seated on one or more saddle seats
on its frame. Such term also includes a human-powered vehicle, and any
attachment to such vehicle designed to transport by pedaling when the vehicle
is used on a public roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of-way,
but does not include a tricycle.
      OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
(W. Va. Code 17-11A-3)
      OTHER PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any right-of-way other than a public roadway
or public bicycle path that is under the jurisdiction and control of this state
or the municipality and is designed for use and used by vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
      PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation’s standards for
protective headgear or American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for
use in bicycling.
      PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of
this state or the municipality for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
      PUBLIC ROADWAY. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction and control of this
state or the municipality for use primarily by motor vehicles.
      TRICYCLE. A three-wheeled human-powered vehicle designed for use as a toy
by a single child under the age of six years, the seat of which is no more than
two feet from ground level.
   (b)   Requirements for helmet use.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to operate or
be a passenger on a bicycle or any attachment to a bicycle used on a public
roadway, public bicycle path, or other public right-of- way unless at all times
when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of
good fit, fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent or legal guardian of a person under
15 years of age to knowingly permit such person to operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle or on any attachment to a bicycle used on a public roadway, public
bicycle path, or other public right-of-way unless at all times when the person
is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet of good fit, fastened
securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11A-4)
   (c)   Sale of bicycle helmets. Any helmet sold or offered for sale for use
by operators and passengers of bicycles shall be conspicuously labeled in
accordance with the standard described in division (a)(6) hereof, which shall
constitute the manufacturer’s certification that the helmet conforms to the
applicable safety standards.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11A-5)
   (d)   Civil actions. A violation of division (b) hereof is not admissible as
evidence of negligence or contributory negligence or comparative negligence in
any civil action or proceeding for damages, and shall not be admissible in
mitigation of damages.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11A-6)
§ 373.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
303.99 for general Traffic Code penalty.
   (b)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
303.99, any parent or legal guardian violating any requirement set forth in §
373.09(b) shall be fined $10 or be required to perform two hours in community
service related to a child injury prevention program which includes injury
prevention education or both fined and required to perform such community
service. Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code 8-11-1, no court costs
may be assessed to any person violating the requirements of §
373.09(b).
      (2)   In the case of a first violation of §
373.09(b), the court may waive the fine upon receipt of satisfactory proof that
the person has a helmet or within a reasonable time from the date of the
violation, purchased or otherwise obtained, a protective bicycle helmet.
      (3)   It is an absolute defense to a charge for a violation of §
373.09 that a parent or legal guardian is unable to pay for the protective
bicycle helmet. Inability to pay may be demonstrated by the filing of a
financial affidavit in accordance with the provisions of W. Va. Code 59-2-1(c).
Any person who demonstrates inability to pay shall be referred to the
Governor’s Highway Safety Program for assistance in obtaining the appropriate
helmet or helmets.
(W. Va. Code 17C-11A-7)
PART V: GENERAL OFFENSES CODE
Article
   
501.   ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
   
505.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
   
509.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
   
511.   DRUG OFFENSES
   
513.   GAMBLING
   
517.   INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
   
521.   LIQUOR CONTROL
   
525.   MINORS
   
529.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
   
533.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
    
545.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
ARTICLE 501: ADMINISTRATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
501.01   Refusal to aid officer
   
501.02   Obstructing or giving false information to an officer; fleeing
   
501.03   False fire alarm
   
501.04   False reports concerning bombs or other explosive devices
   
501.05   Impersonating an official or law enforcement officer
   
501.06   Attempts
   
501.07   Citation in lieu of arrest; failure to appear
   
501.08   Falsely reporting an emergency incident
   
501.09   False report
   
501.10   Confidentiality and disclosure of return information
 
   
501.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Bribery and corrupt practices generally, see W. Va. Code Ch. 61-5A
   Crimes against public justice, see W. Va. Code Ch. 61-5
   Failure to comply with lawful order of police officer, see TRAF.
303.02
   Penalty not to exceed that provided in W. Va. Code Ch. 61, see W. Va. Code
8-12-5(57)
   Specific types of bribery, see W. Va. Code 3-1-1 et seq., 15-2-17 et seq.,
18-2A-9, 61-10-15, and 61-10-22
§ 501.01 REFUSAL TO AID OFFICER.
   No person shall, when required by the Police Chief or any other officer,
refuse or neglect to assist him or her in the execution of his or her office in
a criminal case, in the preservation of the peace or in the apprehension or
securing of any person for a breach of the peace or in any case of escape or
rescue.
(W. Va. Code 61-5-14)
§ 501.02 OBSTRUCTING OR GIVING FALSE INFORMATION TO AN OFFICER; FLEEING.
   (a)   No person shall by threats, menaces, acts, or otherwise, forcibly or
illegally hinder or obstruct, or attempt to hinder or obstruct, any law
enforcement officer, probation officer, parole officer, court security officer,
the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal acting
in his or her official capacity.
   (b)   No person shall, with intent to impede or obstruct a law enforcement
officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire
Marshal in the conduct of an investigation of a misdemeanor or felony offense,
knowingly and willfully make a materially false statement; provided, that the
provisions of this division (b) shall not apply to statements made by a spouse,
parent, step- parent, grandparent, sibling, half-sibling, child, step-child, or
grandchild, whether related by blood or marriage, of the person under
investigation. Statements made by the person under investigation may not be
used as the basis for prosecution under this division (b). For the purposes of
this subsection, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall not include a watchman, state
police, or college security personnel who is not a certified law enforcement
officer.
   (c)   No person shall intentionally flee or attempt to flee by any means
other than the use of a vehicle from any law enforcement officer, probation
officer, parole officer, court security officer, the State Fire Marshal, or a
full-time Deputy or Assistant Fire Marshal acting in his or her official
capacity who is attempting to make a lawful arrest of the person, and who knows
or reasonably believes that the officer is attempting to arrest the person.
   (d)   No person shall intentionally flee or attempt to flee in a vehicle
from any law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting
in his or her official capacity, after the officer has given a clear visual or
audible signal directing the person to stop.
   (e)   No person shall intentionally flee or attempt to flee in a vehicle
from any law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer acting
in his or her official capacity, after the officer has given a clear visual or
audible signal directing the person to stop, and cause damage to the real or
personal property of any person during or resulting from his or her flight.
   (f)   For purposes of this section, VEHICLE includes any motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, all-terrain vehicle, or snowmobile, as those terms are
defined in W. Va. Code 17A-1-1, whether or not it is being operated on a public
highway at the time and whether or not it is licensed by the state.
   (g)   For purposes of this section, FLEE, FLEEING, and FLIGHT do not include
any person’s reasonable attempt to travel to a safe place, allowing the
pursuing law enforcement officer, probation officer, or parole officer to
maintain appropriate surveillance, for the purpose of complying with the
officer’s direction to stop.
   (h)   (1)   No person, with the intent to purposefully deprive another
person of emergency services, shall interfere with or prevent another person
from making an emergency communication, which a reasonable person would
consider necessary under the circumstances, to law enforcement, fire, or
emergency medical service personnel.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, INTERFERE WITH OR PREVENT
includes, but is not limited to, seizing, concealing, obstructing access to, or
disabling or disconnecting a telephone, telephone line, or equipment or other
communication device.   
      (3)   For the purpose of this division, EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION means
communication to transmit warnings or other information pertaining to a crime,
fire, accident, power outage, disaster, or risk of injury or damage to a person
or property.
(W. Va. Code 61-5-17)
   (i)   No person shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order,
direction, or signal of a police officer.
§ 501.03 FALSE FIRE ALARM.
   No person shall make, turn in, or telephone, or by use of any means or
method of communication, aid or abet in the making or turning in of any alarm
of fire which he or she knows to be false at the time of making such alarm.
(W. Va. Code 29-3-21)
§ 501.04 FALSE REPORTS CONCERNING BOMBS OR OTHER EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
   (a)   No person shall impart or convey or cause to be imparted or conveyed
any false information, knowing, or having reasonable cause to believe such
information to be false, concerning the presence of any bomb or other explosive
device in, at, on, near, under, or against any dwelling house, structure,
improvement, building, bridge, motor vehicle, vessel, boat, airplane or other
place, or concerning an attempt or alleged attempt being made or to be made to
so place or explode any such bomb or other explosive device.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, any
person violating the provisions of division (a) of this section for a second
offense or whose violation of the division results in another suffering serious
bodily injury shall be guilty of a felony and prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-17)
§ 501.05 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICIAL OR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be a law
enforcement officer or law enforcement official or be under the order or
direction of any such person. No person who is not a law enforcement officer or
law enforcement official shall wear the uniform prescribed for such persons, or
the badge or other insignia adopted for use by such persons with the intent to
deceive another person.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER and LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL shall have the meanings set forth in W. Va. Code 30-29-
1 except that such terms shall not include members of the State Division of
Public Safety and shall not include individuals hired by non-public entities
for the provision of security services.
(W. Va. Code 61-1-9)
   (b)   No person shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer
or employee of the municipality, or exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
duties, functions, or powers of a municipal officer. No person not a member of
the Fire Department, for the purpose of such false representation, shall wear a
uniform or part thereof similar to the uniform worn by a member of the Fire
Department.
§ 501.06 ATTEMPTS.
   Every person who attempts to commit an offense but fails to commit or is
prevented from committing it, shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99 if the offense is punishable by confinement in jail.
(W. Va. Code 61-11-8)
§ 501.07 CITATION IN LIEU OF ARREST; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   (a)   A police officer may issue a citation instead of making an arrest for
the following offenses, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
person being cited will appear to answer the charge:
      (1)   Any misdemeanor, not involving injury to the person, committed in a
police officer’s presence; provided, that the officer may arrest the person if
he or she has reasonable grounds to believe that the person is likely to cause
serious harm to himself, herself, or others; and
      (2)   When any person is being detained for the purpose of investigating
whether such person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting, pursuant
to §
533.01 of this Code.
   (b)   The citation shall provide that the defendant shall appear within a
designated time.
   (c)   If the defendant fails to appear in response to the citation or if
there are reasonable grounds to believe that he or she will not appear, a
complaint may be made and a warrant shall issue. When a physical arrest is made
and a citation is issued in relation to the same offense, the officer shall
mark on the citation, in the place specified for court appearance date, the
word “arrested” in lieu of the date of court appearance.
(W. Va. Code 62-1-5(a))
§ 501.08 FALSELY REPORTING AN EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
   A person is guilty of reporting a false emergency incident when knowing the
information reported, conveyed, or circulated is false or baseless, he or she:
   (a)   Initiates or circulates a false report or warning of or impending
occurrence of a fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or
other emergency under circumstances in which it is likely that public alarm or
inconvenience will result or that firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus,
one or more rescue vehicles, or other emergency apparatus might be summoned;
   (b)   Reports, by word or action, to any official or quasi-official agency
or organization having the function of dealing with emergencies involving
danger to life or property, an alleged occurrence or impending occurrence of a
fire, explosion, crime, catastrophe, accident, illness, or other emergency in
which it is likely that public alarm or inconvenience will result or that
firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, one or more rescue vehicles, or
other emergency apparatus might be summoned, which did not occur, does not in
fact exist;
   (c)   Reports to a law enforcement officer or agency the alleged occurrence
of any offense or incident which did not in fact occur or an allegedly
impending occurrence of an offense or incident which is not in fact about to
occur or false information relating to an actual offense or incident or to the
alleged implication of some person therein; or
   (d)   Without just cause, calls or summons by telephone, fire alarm system,
or otherwise, any firefighting apparatus, ambulance apparatus, rescue vehicles,
or other emergency vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-20)
§ 501.09 FALSE REPORT.
   No person shall make or give a false report or false information to any
police or fire officer of the city.
§ 501.10 CONFIDENTIALITY AND DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION.
   (a)   Any information obtained by and through the Reciprocal Exchange and
Tax Information Agreement between the State of West Virginia and the City of
Parsons, is and shall remain confidential.
   (b)   Any officer or employee of the city who makes an unauthorized
disclosure of such information shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined no more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than
one year, or both.
   (c)   For the purpose of this section, UNAUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE shall mean
the release to any persons of any tax information obtained by virtue of said
Reciprocal Agreement, unless the person receiving the information is the
authorized counsel of the state or city and shall be using the information only
for the purpose of administering business and occupation taxes, sales tax, or
liquor sales tax, or the person who filed the return information has
authorized, in writing, its release, thereby waiving his or her right to
secrecy.
§ 501.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this Part (Five - General Offenses
Code) for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
501.01 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(W. Va. Code 61-5-14)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
501.02(b) shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than five
days, or both.
   (d)   Whoever violates §
501.02(d) shall be fined not more than $1,000 and shall be imprisoned not more
than 30 days.
   (e)   Whoever violates §
501.02(e) shall be fined not less than $1,000 nor more than $3,000 and shall be
imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(W. Va. Code 61-5-17)
   (f)   Whoever violates §
501.02(h) shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $2,000 or imprisoned
not less than one day nor more than 30 days, or both fined and imprisoned.
(W. Va. Code 61-5-17)
   (g)   (1)   Except as provided by the provisions of division (g)(2) of this
section, any person who violates the provisions of §
501.03 shall be fined for a first offense not more than $100 or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days, or both; and for a second and each subsequent offense
fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days, or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
501.03 with the intent to cause injury to the person of another, to cause
destruction of the property of another or to divert the attention of law
enforcement or fire personnel to help effectuate the commission of another
crime shall be guilty of a felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (h)   Whoever violates §
501.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-17)
   (i)   Whoever violates §
501.05(a) shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $1,000.
(W. Va. Code 61-1-9)
ARTICLE 505: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
   
505.01   Cruelty to animals
   
505.02   Cruelty to dogs and cats
   
505.03   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
505.04   Noisy animals
   
505.05   Hunting restricted
   
505.06   Domestic fowl, pigeons, swine, and other animals prohibited
   
505.07   Vicious and dangerous animals; reptiles
   
505.08   Permitting animals or fowl to run at large
   
505.09   Abandonment of animals
   
505.10   Slaughtering of animals
   
505.11   City is a bird sanctuary
   
505.12   Dogs
   
505.13   Defecation by animal
 
   
505.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Authority to prevent ill-treatment of animals, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(27)
   Authority to regulate the keeping of animals, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(26)
   Diseases among domestic animals, see W. Va. Code Ch. 19-9
   Disposing of dead animals, see W. Va. Code 16-9-3
   Dogs generally, see W. Va. Code Ch. 19-20
   Domestic animal tax, see W. Va. Code 8-13-10
   Hunting, see W. Va. Code Ch. 20-2
   Vaccination of dogs, see W. Va. Code Ch. 19-20A
§ 505.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (a)   No person shall intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly:
      (1)   Mistreat an animal in a cruel manner;
      (2)   Abandon an animal;
      (3)   Withhold:
         A.   Proper sustenance, including food or water;
         B.   Shelter that protects from the elements of weather; or
         C.   Medical treatment, necessary to sustain normal health and fitness
or to end the suffering of any animal.
      (4)   Abandon an animal to die;
      (5)   Leave an animal unattended and confined in a motor vehicle when
physical injury to or death of the animal is likely to result;
      (6)   Ride an animal when it is physically unfit;
      (7)   Bait or harass an animal for the purpose of making it perform for a
person’s amusement;
      (8)   Cruelly chain or tether an animal; or
      (9)   Use, train, or possess a domesticated animal for the purpose of
seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other domesticated animal.
   (b)   No person, other than a licensed veterinarian or a person acting under
the direction or with the approval of a licensed veterinarian, shall knowingly
and willfully administer or cause to be administered to any animal
participating in any contest any controlled substance or any other drug for the
purpose of altering or otherwise affecting such animal’s performance.
   (c)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall forfeit his
or her interest in any such animal and all interest in such animal shall vest
in the humane society or county pound of the county in which the conviction was
rendered, and such person shall, in addition to any fine imposed, be liable for
any costs incurred or to be incurred by the humane society or county pound as a
result.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same
meaning ascribed to it by W. Va. Code 60A-1-101(d).
   (e)   The provisions of this section do not apply to lawful acts of hunting,
fishing, trapping, or animal training or farm livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife kept in private or licensed game farms if kept and maintained
according to usual and accepted standards of livestock, poultry, gaming fowl,
or wildlife or game farm production and management, nor to humane use of
animals or activities regulated under and in conformity with the provisions of
7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq. and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as both
such statutes and regulations are in effect on the effective date of this
section.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-19)
§ 505.02 CRUELTY TO DOGS AND CATS.
   No person shall cruelly or needlessly beat, torture, torment, mutilate,
kill, or willfully deprive necessary sustenance to any dog or cat, irrespective
of whether any such dog or cat is his or her own or that of another person. No
person shall impound or confine any dog or cat in any place unprotected from
the elements or fail to supply the same with a sufficient quantity of food and
water, or abandon to die any maimed, sick, or diseased dog or cat or be engaged
in or employed at dogfighting, or pitting one dog or cat to fight against
another dog or cat or any similar cruelty to any dog or cat, or receive money
for the admission of any person, or use, train, or possess a dog or cat for the
purpose of seizing, detaining, or maltreating any other dog or cat.
§ 505.03 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of each owner or occupant of premises within the city
whereon any dog, cat, or other pet animal which may lawfully be harbored or
maintained within the city to maintain the pen or other enclosure or place
where such dog, cat, or other pet animal is kept in a healthful and sanitary
condition at all times, free of offensive substances and liquids, at such place
and in such manner as not to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of any
person or an annoyance to persons in the neighborhood thereof.
§ 505.04 NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor upon or about his or her premises any animal
of any species whatsoever, which shall, by barking, howling, squalling, crying,
or in any other manner whatsoever, disturb the peace, comfort, quiet, or
tranquility of any neighborhood or adjoining property owner within the city,
and upon conviction thereof such person shall be fined not exceeding $25 and
shall be compelled to remove such animal from his or her premises or to see
that such animal ceases making such noises.
§ 505.05 HUNTING RESTRICTED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, at any time, within the limits of
the city, to hunt for, trap, take, kill, wound, or shoot at wild animals or
wild birds with the use of any fire arm, bow and arrow, crossbow, or any other
weapon except when necessary in the performance of a lawful duty by a State of
West Virginia Certified Police Officer, a State of West Virginia Department of
Natural Resources Officer, or of a Tucker County Animal Control Officer for the
removal of or destroying of any crippled, diseased, aggressive, or nuisance
wild animal or wild bird.
   (b)   (1)   From time to time Council may determine that an over abundance
of wild animals or wild birds within the city constitutes a nuisance to the
city citizenry, and at such time and with the guidance of the City Police Chief
may order the reduction of such wild animal or wild bird by a bonded and
insured individual(s) or corporation by a resolution.
      (2)   Such individual(s) or corporation authorized by resolution shall
undergo a criminal background check and provide copies of bond(s) and insurance
to the City Police Chief. Such individual(s) or corporation shall submit to the
Chief of Police the plan of action, area of action, and method of reduction for
approval by the Chief of Police. No reduction of wild animals or wild bird
shall commence until all aforementioned items have been complied with.
   (c)   Any person convicted for violation of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punished by imprisonment for not
more than ten days, or by a fine of not more than $500, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
§ 505.06 DOMESTIC FOWL, PIGEONS, SWINE, AND OTHER ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall keep, harbor, or maintain or knowingly permit to be
kept, harbored, or maintained within the city any domestic fowl or pigeon or
any swine or other animal including, but not limited to, cattle, horses, mules,
ponies, or other animals which cannot be or ordinarily are not kept and
maintained as house pets.
   (b)   Any person who, being the owner, lessor, or occupant of any lot or
parcel of land within the city, and who keeps, harbors, or maintains, or who
knowingly permits to be kept, harbored, or maintained any animal or fowl
prohibited in the city by division (a) hereof upon any such lot or parcel of
land, or who neglects or refuses to remove or abate the nuisance occasioned by
the keeping and maintaining of such animal or fowl upon any such lot or parcel
of land within 24 hours after such person has knowledge of the existence of
such nuisance or within 24 hours after service of notice thereof in writing
from the Mayor shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not exceeding $25.
   (c)   Upon conviction under the provisions of division (b) hereof, the
person convicted shall, within 24 hours after such conviction, remove or cause
to be removed such animals and fowl from any such lot or parcel of land and his
or her failure to do so shall constitute a second offense against the
provisions of this section. The continued failure or refusal of such convicted
person to remove such animals and fowl from such lot or parcel of land shall
constitute a separate, distinct, and additional offense for each successive 24-
hour period of such failure and refusal, and upon conviction of such second
offense or of any subsequent offense such person shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $100.
§ 505.07 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS; REPTILES.
   (a)   Vicious or dangerous animals and reptiles of any species whatsoever
are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and menace to the public safety,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any animal or
reptile of any species whatsoever known by him or her, or which, in the
exercise of reasonable diligence he or she should know, to be vicious,
dangerous, or in the habit of biting or attacking persons.
   (b)   In addition to any penalty which may be adjudged against any person
for a violation of this section, such person shall be compelled to dispose of
or to destroy any such animal.
§ 505.08 PERMITTING ANIMALS OR FOWL TO RUN AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any animal or fowl owned, harbored, or maintained by
him or her to run at large within the city limits.
§ 505.09 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall abandon any animal of any species whatsoever within this
city.
§ 505.10 SLAUGHTERING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall slaughter any animal within this city except in places and
under conditions prescribed and approved by the State Health Department.
§ 505.11 CITY IS A BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (a)   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot or
molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests; provided, that such protections are not afforded the following:
starlings, cowbirds, and grackles (common blackbirds), such species being
hereby declared public nuisances.
§ 505.12 DOGS.
   (a)   “Dog” defined. For the purposes of this section, the term DOG shall
mean a dog of either sex, unless otherwise specified.
   (b)   Annual head tax imposed; duty of keepers of dogs to report to county
assessor and pay head tax; dog tags to be affixed to collars of dogs.
      (1)   There is hereby imposed upon each person keeping within the city a
dog above the age of six months an annual head tax on each dog so kept by him
or her in the amount of $6 for each male or female dog.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each person who keeps within the city a dog
above the age of six months to report each such dog to the Assessor of the
county at the time that the annual assessment of personal property is made;
provided, that when any person within the city acquires a dog above the age of
six months, or when a dog kept by him or her within the city attains the age of
six months, such person shall then report such dog to the Assessor of the
county.
      (3)   Each person reporting a dog to the County Assessor pursuant to
division (b)(2) hereof shall pay to the Assessor the amount of the head tax
prescribed in division (b)(1) hereof for each dog he or she is required to
report, and he or she shall then attach to the collar of each such dog the
proper registration tag furnished to him or her by the Assessor, and retain
within his or her possession the certificate of registration furnished to him
or her by the Assessor for each such dog.
      (4)   The annual head tax on dogs imposed by division (b)(1) hereof is
for a fiscal year rather than a calendar year.
   (c)   Running at large prohibited; dogs on leash. Any person who owns,
keeps, or harbors a dog within the city shall keep such dog confined to the
premises owned or occupied by him or her and shall not permit such dog to run
at large; provided, that a dog shall not be deemed to be at large when held on
leash by and under the control of a responsible person and while displaying on
its collar a currently valid registration tag and currently valid vaccination
tag as provided in W. Va. Code 19-20A-4.
   (d)   Impoundment.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the police or other persons designated by
the Mayor for such purpose to cause to be seized and impounded any dog at large
in the city or not wearing a tag as provided in division (b)(3) hereof or a
vaccination tag as required by W. Va. Code 19-20A-4; provided, that if a dog
found at large in violation of this article is rabid, vicious, or otherwise
constitutes a danger to human life or limb, the officer whose duty it is to
impound such dog may destroy it by shooting if it cannot safely be captured and
made secure.
      (2)   A.   If the owner or person in charge of any dog impounded under
the provisions of this section is known to the impounding officer, the
impounding officer shall promptly notify him or her of such impoundment, so
regarding inform him or her of:
            1.   The dog impounded and a description thereof;
            2.   The date of impoundment;
            3.   The place of impoundment;
            4.   The reason for impoundment;
            5.   The procedure for redemption of his or her dog;
            6.   The costs for redemption; and
            7.   The consequences of failure to redeem the impounded dog.
         B.   If the owner or person in charge of any dog impounded under the
provisions of this article is unknown to the impounding officer and cannot be
ascertained by reasonable effort within 24 hours, the officer shall within two
days following such impoundment post notices on the City Hall bulletin board
and at two other public places within the city, each such notice to contain all
the information required by items 1. through 7. of division (d)(2)A. hereof.
      (3)   The owner or person entitled to possession of any dog impounded
under the provisions of this article may redeem such dog at any time prior to
the sale or other disposition thereof upon satisfactory proof of his or her
right to possession and payment of:
         A.   The expense, if any, incurred in making the impoundment;
         B.   The expense incurred for sustenance, shelter, and care of the
impounded dog;
         C.   The expense incurred for giving notice; and
         D.   Any other expense actually incurred; provided, that no dog shall
be redeemed for less than $1 for each day such dog was impounded. No impounded
dog shall be sold, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of except by release to its
owner or some other person lawfully entitled to its custody until not less than
five days have elapsed since its impoundment.
      (4)   Impounded dogs not redeemed by their owners or others entitled to
their custody within five days of their impoundment may be disposed of in
accordance with the law governing the pound; provided, that no dog shall be
destroyed except in a humane manner, and no dog shall be destroyed if a
responsible person applies for release to his or her custody and he or she
agrees to provide the dog with a home and subsistence and to abide by the
requirements of this article.
   (e)   Rabid dogs.
      (1)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog known by him or her,
or which, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, he or she should know, to be
suffering with rabies. Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of this
division (e) shall be compelled to destroy such animal, in addition to any
penalty which may be adjudged against him or her.
      (2)   Any police officer shall kill by shooting any dog known by him or
her to be suffering with rabies.
   (f)   Kennel license. The city requires a kennel license be obtained if any
person in the city limits has and keeps more than five dogs. License will be
obtained; a registration fee of $2 per year. With the understanding that said
person by law register their kennel with the County Assessor office, at which
time there will be a set fee paid to Assessor’s office and a head tax will be
paid for each dog, the city will follow state codes pertaining to this matter.
§ 505.13 DEFECATION BY ANIMAL.
   An owner, caretaker, or handler of any animal shall promptly remove and
sanitarily dispose of feces left behind by said animal on any public or private
property.
§ 505.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   (1)   Whoever violates §
505.01(a) shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $2,000 or imprisoned
not more than 30 days, or both, for a first offense. Any person convicted of a
second or subsequent violation of §
505.01(a) shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days or fined not less than
$500 nor more than $3,000, or both. The incarceration set forth in this
division (b)(1) shall be mandatory unless the provisions of division (b)(2) are
complied with.
      (2)   A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to the contrary, no
person who has been convicted of a violation of the provisions of §
505.01(a) may be granted probation until the defendant has undergone a complete
psychiatric or psychological evaluation and the court has reviewed such
evaluation. Unless the defendant is determined by the court to be indigent, he
or she shall be responsible for the cost of said evaluation.
         B.   For any person convicted of a violation of division (b) of this
section, the court may, in addition to the penalties provided in this section,
impose a requirement that he or she complete a program of anger management
intervention for perpetrators of animal cruelty. Unless the defendant is
determined by the court to be indigent, he or she shall be responsible for the
cost of the program.
      (3)   In addition to any other penalty which can be imposed for a
violation of §
505.01, a court shall prohibit any person so convicted from possessing, owning,
or residing with any animal or type of animal for a period of five years
following entry of a conviction. A violation under this division (b)(3) is
punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,000 and forfeiture of the animal.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
505.01(b) shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $2,000.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-19)
   (d)   Whoever violates §
505.02 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both. In addition, the Humane Officer may remove the dog or cat involved and
place it in the pound and such dog or cat shall not be returned to the owner or
perpetrator of the act of cruelty, but shall be put up for adoption to a
desirable home or given into the care of a humane society, or upon the
recommendation of a licensed veterinarian shall be humanely destroyed.
ARTICLE 509: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND PEACE DISTURBANCE
Section
   
509.01   Disorderly conduct
   
509.02   Loitering on school property
   
509.03   Wearing masks, hoods, or face coverings
   
509.04   Disturbing the peace
   
509.05   Minor’s curfew
   
509.06   Criminal loitering by persons on supervised release
 
   
509.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Authority to maintain order, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(19), (44)
   Breach of peace with weapon, see GEN. OFF.
545.02
   Crimes against the peace, see W. Va. Code Ch. 61-6
§ 509.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (a)   No person shall, in a public place, any state or municipal office or
office building, or any other property owned, leased, occupied, or controlled
by the state or municipality, a mobile home park, a public parking area, a
common area of an apartment building or dormitory, or a common area of a
privately owned commercial shopping center, mall, or other group of commercial
retail establishments, disturb the peace of others by violent, profane,
indecent, or boisterous conduct or language or by the making of unreasonably
loud noise that is intended to cause annoyance or alarm to another person, and
who persists in such conduct after being requested to desist by a law
enforcement officer acting in his or her lawful capacity; provided, that
nothing in this division (a) should be construed as a deterrence to the lawful
and orderly public right to demonstrate in support or protest of public policy
issues.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year-round occupancy. The term includes:
         A.   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed, or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         B.   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A privately-owned residential housing area or
subdivision wherein the dwelling units are comprised mainly of mobile homes and
wherein the occupants of such dwelling units share common elements for purposes
of ingress and egress, parking, recreation, and other like residential
purposes.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An area, whether publicly or privately owned or
maintained, open to the use of the public for parking motor vehicles.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-1b)
§ 509.02 LOITERING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No person, not a student in regular attendance, shall loiter in or about any
school, school building, or school grounds in violation of any posted rules or
regulations governing the use of any such school without written permission
from the principal.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-14a)
§ 509.03 WEARING MASKS, HOODS, OR FACE COVERINGS.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person, whether in a
motor vehicle or otherwise, while wearing any mask, hood, or device whereby any
portion of the face is so covered as to conceal the identity of the wearer,
shall:
      (1)   Come into or appear upon any walk, alley, street, road, highway, or
other thoroughfare dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Come into or appear in any trading area, concourse, waiting room,
lobby, or foyer open to, used by, or frequented by the general public;
      (3)   Come into or appear upon or within any of the grounds or buildings
owned, leased, maintained, or operated by the state or municipality;
      (4)   Ask, request, or demand entrance or admission to the premises,
enclosure, dwelling, or place of business of any other person within this
municipality; or
      (5)   Attend or participate in any meeting upon private property of
another unless written permission for such meeting has first been obtained from
the owner or occupant thereof.
   (b)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any person:
      (1)   Under 16 years of age;
      (2)   Wearing a traditional holiday costume;
      (3)   Engaged in a trade or employment where a mask, hood, or device is
worn for the purpose of ensuring the physical safety of the wearer;
      (4)   Using a mask, hood, or device in theatrical productions, including
use in mardi gras celebrations or similar masquerade balls;
      (5)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device prescribed for civil defense
drills, exercises, or emergencies; or
      (6)   Wearing a mask, hood, or device for the sole purpose of protection
from the elements or while participating in a winter sport.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-22)
§ 509.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (a)   No person shall:
      (1)   On any street, highway, public building, in or on a public or
private conveyance, or public place, engage in conduct having a direct tendency
to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom, individually, such
conduct is directed;
      (2)   Willfully, or being intoxicated, whether willfully or not, disrupt
any meeting of the governing body of any political subdivision of this state or
a division or agency thereof, or of any school, literary society, or place of
religious worship, or any other meeting open to the public, if such disruption
prevents or interferes with the orderly conduct of such meeting or has a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence by the person or persons at whom,
individually, such disruption is directed;
      (3)   Engage in fighting, or threaten to harm persons or property
unlawfully;
      (4)   Make offensively coarse utterance, gesture, or display, or
communicate unwarranted and grossly abusive language to any person, which by
its very utterance or usage inflicts injury or tends to incite an immediate
breach of the peace;
      (5)   Insult, taunt, or challenge another under circumstances in which
such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (6)   Hinder or prevent the movement of persons or vehicles on a public
street, road, highway, right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or
private property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, by any act
which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose;
      (7)   Create a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to
persons or property; or
      (8)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon the property of any
other person, except this section shall not apply to the use of restrooms and/
or bathrooms.
   (b)   Nothing described herein shall be interpreted or construed to prevent
any constitutionally protected activity including, but not necessarily limited
to, exercise of one’s constitutionally guaranteed rights of freedom of speech
or assembly. No person may be convicted under this section when his or her sole
intent for engaging in the activities for which he or she was arrested was to
exercise one or more of the rights guaranteed to him or her under the
Constitution of the United States or the State Constitution or to exercise any
other rights guaranteed to that person by law.
§ 509.05 MINOR’S CURFEW.
   (a)   No child under the age of 18 years shall be upon the streets or in any
other public places of this city after the hour of 10:00 p.m. unless
accompanied by the parent, guardian, custodian, or some adult person lawfully
in charge of such child.
   (b)   No parent, guardian, custodian, or other person having the custody of
a child under the age of 18 years shall allow such child to be upon the streets
or in other public places in this city after 10:00 p.m., unless accompanied by
such parent, guardian, custodian, or some adult person lawfully in charge of
such child. Upon conviction of a violation under this section the child and the
parents, guardian, custodian, or adult person lawfully in charge of such child
shall each be fined not exceeding $10.
   (c)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit children under the age
of 18 years from attending places of religious worship or meetings held by or
under the auspices of the public schools or boy scouts, girl scouts, or other
like organizations, unaccompanied by the parent, guardian, custodian, or other
adult person.
§ 509.06 CRIMINAL LOITERING BY PERSONS ON SUPERVISED RELEASE.
   (a)   No person serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code 62-12-26 shall loiter within 1,000
feet of the property line of the residence or workplace of a victim of a
sexually violent offense for which the person was convicted.
   (b)   No person serving a period of supervised release of ten years or more
pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code 62-12-26 for an offense where the
victim was a minor shall loiter within 1,000 feet of the property line of a
facility or business the principal purpose of which is the education,
entertainment, or care of minor children, playground, athletic facility, or
school bus stop.
   (c)   A person does not violate the provisions of divisions (a) or (b) of
this section unless he or she has previously been asked to leave the proscribed
location by an authorized person and thereafter refuses to leave or leaves and
thereafter returns to the proscribed location.
   (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED PERSON. Includes:
         A.   A law enforcement officer acting in his or her official capacity;
         B.   A security officer employed by a business or facility to protect
persons or property acting in his or her employment capacity;
         C.   An owner, manager, or employee of a facility or business having a
principal purpose the caring for, education, or entertainment of minors;
         D.   A victim or parent, guardian, or lawful temporary or permanent
custodian thereof; or
         E.   An employee of a county board of education acting in his or her
employment capacity.
      FACILITY OR BUSINESS, THE PRINCIPAL PURPOSE OF WHICH IS THE EDUCATION,
ENTERTAINMENT, OR CARE OF MINOR CHILDREN. Includes:
         A.   A pre-school, primary, intermediate, middle, or high school,
either public or private;
         B.   A childcare facility;
         C.   A park;
         D.   An athletic facility used by minors; or
         E.   A school bus stop.
      LOITERING. To enter or remain on property while having no legitimate
purpose or, if a legitimate purpose exists, remaining on that property beyond
the time necessary to fulfill that purpose.
   (e)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or limit a
person’s presence within 1,000 feet of a location or facility referenced in
this section if the person is there present for the purposes of supervision,
counseling, or other activity in which the person is directed to participate as
a condition of supervision or where the person has the express permission of
his or her supervising officer to be present.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-29)
§ 509.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
509.01 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 24 hours.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-1b)
   (c)   Whoever violates §
509.02 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
(W. Va. Code 61-6-14a)
   (d)   Whoever violates §
509.06 shall be imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-29)
ARTICLE 511: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
511.01   Controlled substance
Cross-references:
   Liquor control, see GEN. OFF.
Art. 521
§ 511.01 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   (a)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled
substance unless the substance was obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a
valid prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in the course of his
or her professional practice.
   (b)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $100 or more than $1,000.
ARTICLE 513: GAMBLING
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Article 513. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and future legislation. See W. Va. Code
Ch. 61, Art. 10 for regulations on gambling.
ARTICLE 517: INDECENCY AND OBSCENITY
Section
   
517.01   Operating a place for or permitting or engaging in prostitution,
lewdness, or assignation
   
517.02   Detention of person in place of prostitution
   
517.03   Pandering
   
517.04   Pimping
   
517.05   Profane swearing and drunkenness
   
517.06   Obscene or harassing telephone calls
   
517.07   Indecent exposure
   
517.08   Invasion of privacy by looking
   
517.09   Preparation, distribution, or exhibition of obscene matter to minors
(Repealed)
   
517.10   Sale or display of obscene matter
 
   
517.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to prohibit distribution of obscene literature, see W. Va. Code 8-
12-5(17)
   Authority to suppress houses of ill fame, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(18)
   Authority to prevent indecent practices, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(19)
   Equitable remedies, see W. Va. Code Ch. 61-9
§ 517.01 OPERATING A PLACE FOR OR PERMITTING OR ENGAGING IN PROSTITUTION,
LEWDNESS, OR ASSIGNATION.
   (a)   No person shall keep, set up, maintain, or operate any house, place,
building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or part thereof, or vehicle,
trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation; or own any place, house, hotel, tourist camp, other structure or
part thereof, or trailer or other conveyance knowing the same to be used for
the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, or let, sublet, or rent
any such place, premises, or conveyance to another with knowledge or good
reason to know of the intention of the lessee or rentee to use such place,
premises, or conveyance for prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or offer,
or offer to secure another for the purpose of prostitution or for any other
lewd or indecent act; or receive or offer or agree to receive any person into
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, or
vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of prostitution,
lewdness, or assignation, or permit any person to remain there for such
purpose; or for another or others, direct, take, or transport, or offer or
agree to take or transport, or aid or assist in transporting any person to any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, other structure, vehicle, trailer
or other conveyance, or to any other person with knowledge or having reasonable
cause to believe that the purpose of such directing, taking, or transporting is
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or aid, abet, or participate in the
doing of any acts herein prohibited. Whoever violates this division (a) shall,
for a first offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b)   (1)   No person shall engage in prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation, or solicit, induce, entice, or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or reside in, enter, or remain in any
house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, or enter or
remain in any vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance for the purpose of
prostitution, lewdness, or assignation; or aid, abet, or participate in the
doing of any of the acts herein prohibited.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (b) shall, for a first or second
offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The subsequent offense provision shall apply only to the pimp,
panderer, solicitor, operator, or any person benefitting financially or
otherwise from the earnings of a prostitute.
   (c)   All leases and agreements, oral or written, for letting, subletting,
or renting any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure
which is used for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or assignation, shall
be void from and after the date any person who is a party to such an agreement
shall be convicted of an offense hereunder. TOURIST CAMP includes any temporary
or permanent buildings, tents, cabins or structures, or trailers or other
vehicles which are maintained, offered, or used for dwelling or sleeping
quarters for pay.
   (d)   In the trial of any person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this section, testimony concerning the reputation or character of
any house, place, building, hotel, tourist camp, or other structure, and of the
person or persons who reside in or frequent them, and of the defendant or
defendants, shall be admissible in evidence in support of the charge.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-5)
§ 517.02 DETENTION OF PERSON IN PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   No person shall by any means keep, hold, detain, or restrain any
person in a house of prostitution or other place where prostitution is
practiced or allowed; shall, directly or indirectly, keep, hold, detain, or
restrain or attempt to keep, hold, detain, or restrain, in any house of
prostitution or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, any
person by any means, for the purpose of compelling such person, directly or
indirectly, to pay, liquidate, or cancel any debt, dues, or obligations
incurred or said to have been incurred by such person.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor if the person so kept, held, detained, or restrained under this
section is not a minor.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-6)
§ 517.03 PANDERING.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall procure an inmate for a house of prostitution,
or by promises, threats, violence, or by any device or scheme, cause, induce,
persuade, or encourage a person to become an inmate of a house of prostitution,
or shall procure a place as inmate in a house of prostitution for a person. No
person shall, by promises, threats, violence, or any device or scheme cause,
induce, persuade, or encourage an inmate of a house of prostitution to remain
therein as such inmate; or shall, by fraud or artifice, or by duress of person
or goods, or by abuse of any position of confidence or authority, procure any
person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame, to enter any place in which
prostitution is encouraged or allowed within this municipality, or to come into
or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution, or shall procure
any person to become an inmate of a house of ill fame within this municipality
or to come into or leave this municipality for the purpose of prostitution; or
shall receive or give or agree to receive or give any money or thing of value
for procuring or attempting to procure any person to become an inmate of a
house of ill fame within this municipality, or to come into or leave this
municipality for the purpose of prostitution.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution for any of the acts
prohibited in this section that any part of such act or acts shall have been
committed outside of this municipality, and the offense shall in such case be
deemed and alleged to have been committed and the offender tried and punished
in the municipality or county in which the prostitution was intended to be
practiced, or in which the offense was consummated, or any overt act in
furtherance of the offense was committed.
      (3)   Any such person shall be a competent witness in any prosecution
under this section to testify for or against the accused as to any transaction,
or as to conversation with the accused, or by the accused with another person
or persons in his or her presence, notwithstanding his or her having married
the accused before or after the violation of any of the provisions of this
section, whether called as a witness during the existence of the marriage or
after its dissolution. The act or state of marriage shall not be a defense to
any violation of this section.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor for the first
offense unless the inmate referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-7)
§ 517.04 PIMPING.
   (a)   No person knowing another person to be a prostitute, shall live or
derive support or maintenance, in whole or in part, from the earnings or
proceeds of the prostitution of such prostitute, or from money loaned or
advanced to or charged against such prostitution by any keeper or manager or
inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or
shall tout or receive compensation for touting for such prostitution. A
prostitute shall be a competent witness in any prosecution hereunder to testify
for or against the accused as to any transaction or conversation with the
accused, or by the accused with another person or persons in the presence of
the prostitute, even if the prostitute may have married the accused before or
after the violation of any of the provisions of this section, whether called as
a witness during the existence of the marriage or after its dissolution.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor unless the prostitute referred to in this section is a minor.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-8)
§ 517.05 PROFANE SWEARING AND DRUNKENNESS.
Editor’s note:
   Former W. Va. Code 61-8-15 upon which §
517.05 was based was repealed by Senate Bill 457, passed March 13, 2010.
§ 517.06 OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS.
   (a)   No person with intent to harass or abuse another by means of telephone
shall:
      (1)   Make any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene;
      (2)   Make a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues, without
disclosing his or her identity and with intent to harass any person at the
called number;
      (3)   Make or cause the telephone of another repeatedly or continuously
to ring, with intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Make repeated telephone calls, during which conversation ensues,
with intent to harass any person at the called number; or
      (5)   Threaten to commit a crime against any person or property.
   (b)   No person shall knowingly permit any telephone under his or her
control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this section.
   (c)   Any offense committed under this section may be deemed to have
occurred at the place at which the telephone call was made, or the place at
which the telephone call was received.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-16)
§ 517.07 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   No person shall intentionally expose his or her sex organs or anus or the
sex organs or anus of another person, or intentionally cause such exposure by
another or engage in any overt act of sexual gratification, under circumstances
in which the person knows that the conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm;
provided, that it is not considered indecent exposure for a mother to breast
feed a child in any location, public or private.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-9)
§ 517.08 INVASION OF PRIVACY BY LOOKING.
   No person shall unlawfully enter upon the property of another or secretly or
furtively peep through or attempt to peep into, through, or spy through a
window, door, or other aperture of any building, structure, or other enclosure
of any nature occupied by or intended for occupancy as a dwelling or dormitory,
whether or not such building, structure, or enclosure be permanently situated
or transportable and whether or not such occupancy be permanent or temporary.
§ 517.09 PREPARATION, DISTRIBUTION, OR EXHIBITION OF OBSCENE MATTER TO MINORS.
Editor’s note:
   Former §
517.09 has been deleted from the Codified Ordinances since all violations of W.
Va. Code 61-8A from which §
517.09 was derived are now felonies and should be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
§ 517.10 SALE OR DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INDIVIDUAL. Any human being regardless of age.
      KNOWINGLY. To have knowledge of or to be aware of the content or
character of obscene matter.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper, or other printed or written
material, or any picture, drawing or photograph, motion picture, or other
visual representation, or live conduct, or any recording, transcription, or
mechanical, chemical, or electrical reproduction, or any other articles,
equipment, machines, or materials.
      OBSCENE. Matter which the average individual applying contemporary
community standards would find:
          A.   Taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest;
          B.   Depicts or describes in a patently offensive way ultimate sexual
acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; and
         C.   The matter, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value, and which either:
            1.   Depicts or describes patently offensive representation of
masturbation, excretory functions, lewd exhibition of the genitals, sodomy,
fellatio, cunnilingus, bestiality, sadism, masochism; or
            2.   Depicts or describes nudity or sexual acts of persons, male or
female, below the age of 18 years.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation, or
other legal entity.
      PREPARE. To produce, publish, or print.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing of material on or in a billboard, viewing
screen, theater, marquee, newsstand, display sack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar public places so that material can be purchased or viewed by
individuals.
   (b)   Individual relief. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction to issue
an injunction to enforce the purposes of this section upon petition by the
attorney for the municipality or a representative thereof or any citizen of the
municipality who can show a good faith and valid reason for making such
application. No bond shall be required unless for good cause shown.
   (c)    Activities prohibited. No person shall knowingly send or cause to be
sent or cause to be brought into the municipality for sale or public display,
or prepare, sell, or make a public display, or in the municipality offer to
prepare, sell, or make a public display, or have in his or her possession with
the intent to sell or make a public display of any obscene matter to any
individual.
   (d)   Employees not prosecuted. No employee shall be guilty of a violation
of this section when such employee is a projectionist, ticket taker, usher, or
when such employee prepares, sells, or makes a public display of obscene matter
while acting within the scope of his or her regular employment, unless such
employee has a proprietary interest in such obscene matter or is a shareholder
or officer of a corporation which has a proprietary interest in such obscene
matter.
   (e)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply
to any person exercising a right secured by the Constitution or laws of this
state or of these United States.
(W. Va. Code 8-12-5(b))
§ 517.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
517.01(a) shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both.
   (c)   Whoever violates §
517.01(b) shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days, or both, and for a second offense shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (d)   (1)   Except as provided in division (c)(2), any person who violates
the provisions of § 517.07 shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days or
fined not more than $250, or both.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
517.07 by intentionally exposing himself or herself to another person and the
exposure was done for the purpose of sexual gratification, shall be fined not
more than $500 or confined in jail not more than 30 days, or both. For a second
offense, the person shall be fined not more than $1,000 and confined in jail
for 30 days. For a third or subsequent offense, the person is guilty of a
felony and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (e)   Whoever violates §
517.10 shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both, for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both.
ARTICLE 521: LIQUOR CONTROL
Editor’s note:
   There are no sections in Article 521. This chapter has been established to
provide a place for cross-references and future legislation. See W. Va. Code
Ch. 60 for regulations on liquor control.
ARTICLE 525: MINORS
Section
   
525.01   Contributing to delinquency of a child
   
525.02   Cruelty to children
   
525.03   Parental liability for acts of children
   
525.04   Tobacco usage restrictions
   
525.99   Penalty
Cross references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Contributing to delinquency of minor, see W. Va. Code Ch. 49-4
   Delinquent child defined, see W. Va. Code 49-1-206
   Jurisdiction of municipal court, see W. Va. Code 49-4-701
§ 525.01 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (a)   No person 18 years of age or older shall knowingly contribute to or
encourage the delinquency of a child.
   (b)   As used in this section, DELINQUENCY means the violation or attempted
violation of any federal or state statute, county or municipal ordinance, or a
court order, or the habitual or continual refusal to comply, without just
cause, with the lawful supervision or direction of a parent, guardian, or
custodian.
   (c)   In addition to any penalty provided under §
501.99 and any restitution which may be ordered by the court pursuant to W. Va.
Code 61-11A-5, the court may order any person convicted of a violation of
division (a) of this section to pay all or any portion of the cost of medical,
psychological, or psychiatric treatment provided the child resulting from the
acts for which the person is convicted.
   (d)   This section does not apply to any parent, guardian, or custodian who
fails or refuses, or allows another person to fail or refuse, to supply a child
under the care, custody, or control of the parent, guardian, or custodian with
necessary medical care, when medical care conflicts with the tenets and
practices of a recognized religious denomination or order of which parent,
guardian, or custodian is an adherent or member.
   (e)   It is not an essential element of the offense created by this section
that the minor actually be delinquent.
   (f)   Upon conviction, the court may suspend the sentence of a person found
guilty under this section. A suspended sentence may be subjected to the
following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The offender pay for any and all treatment, support, and
maintenance while the child is in the custody of the state or person that the
court determines reasonable and necessary for the welfare of the child;
      (2)   The offender post a sufficient bond to secure the payment for all
sums ordered to be paid under this section, as long as the bond does not exceed
$5,000; and
      (3)   The offender participate in any program or training that will
assist the child in correcting the delinquent behavior or, in the case of
neglect, that will assist the offender in correcting his or her behavior that
led to violation of this section.
   (g)   (1)   The penalty of a bond given upon suspension of a sentence which
becomes forfeited is recoverable without a separate suit. The court may cause a
citation or a summons to issue to the principal and surety, requiring that they
appear at a time named by the court, not less than ten days, from the issuance
of the summons, and show cause why a judgment should not be entered for the
penalty of the bond and execution issued against the property of the principal
and the surety.
      (2)   Any money collected or paid upon an execution, or upon the bond,
shall be deposited with the clerk of the court in which the bond was given. The
money shall be applied first to the payment of all court costs and then to the
treatment, care, or maintenance of the child who was at issue when the offender
was convicted of this section.
   (h)   If the guilty person had custody of the child prior to conviction, the
court or judge may, on suspending sentence, permit the child to remain in the
custody of the person, and make it a condition of suspending sentence that the
person provides whatever treatment and care may be required for the welfare of
the child, and shall do whatever may be calculated to secure obedience to the
law or to remove the cause of the delinquency.
(W. Va. Code 61-8D-10)
§ 525.02 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   (a)   No person shall cruelly ill treat, abuse, or inflict unnecessary cruel
punishment upon any infant or minor child, and no person, having the care,
custody, or control of any minor child, shall willfully abandon or neglect the
minor child.
   (b)   In addition to any penalty provided under this section and any
restitution which may be ordered by the court, the court may order any person
convicted under the provisions of this section to pay all or any portion of the
cost of medical, psychological, or psychiatric treatment of the victim, the
need for which results from the act or acts for which the person is convicted,
whether or not the victim is considered to have sustained bodily injury.
(W. Va. Code 61-8B-9b)
§ 525.03 PARENTAL LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF CHILDREN.
   The custodial parent or parents of any minor child shall be personally
liable in an amount not to exceed that specified in W. Va. Code 55-7A-2 for
damages which are the proximate result of any one or a combination of the
following acts of the minor child:
   (a)   The malicious and willful injury to the person of another;
   (b)   The malicious and willful injury or damage to the property of another,
whether the property be real, personal, or mixed;
   (c)   The malicious and willful setting fire to a forest or wooded area
belonging to another; or
   (d)   (1)   The willful taking, stealing, and carrying away of the property
of another, with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of possession.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, CUSTODIAL PARENT OR PARENTS means the
parent or parents with whom the minor child is living, or a divorced or
separated parent who does not have legal custody but who is exercising
supervisory control over the minor child at the time of the minor child’s act.
      (3)   Persons entitled to recover damages under this section shall
include, but are not limited to, the state, any municipal corporation, county
commission and board of education, or other political subdivision of this state
or any person or organization of any kind or character. The action may be
brought in magistrate or another court of competent jurisdiction. Recovery
hereunder shall be limited to the actual damages, based upon direct out-of-
pocket loss, taxable court costs, and interest from date of judgment. The right
of action and remedy granted herein shall be in addition to and not exclusive
of any rights of action and remedies therefor against a parent or parents for
the tortious acts of his, her, or their children heretofore existing under the
provisions of any law, statutory or otherwise, or now so existing independently
of the provisions of this section.
(W. Va. Code 55-7A-2)
§ 525.04 TOBACCO USAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   No person, firm, corporation, or business entity may sell, give, or
furnish, or cause to be sold, given, or furnished, to any person under the age
of 21 years:
      (1)   Any pipe, cigarette paper, or any other paper prepared,
manufactured, or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco or tobacco
product;
      (2)   Any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, or tobacco product,
in any form; or
      (3)   Any tobacco-derived product, alternative nicotine product, or vapor
product.
   (b)   Any firm or corporation that violates any provision of division (a)
hereof and any individual who violates any provision of division (a) hereof
shall be fined $50 for the first offense. Upon any subsequent violation at the
same location or operating unit, the firm, corporation, or individual shall be
fined as follows: at least $250 but not more than $500 for the second offense,
if it occurs within two years of the first conviction; at least $500 but not
more than $750 for the third offense, if it occurs within two years of the
first conviction; and at least $1,000 but not more than $5,000 for any
subsequent offense, if the subsequent offense occurs within five years of the
first conviction.
   (c)   Any individual who knowingly and intentionally sells, gives, or
furnishes or causes to be sold, given, or furnished to any person under the age
of 21 years any cigar, cigarette, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco-derived product, in any form, for the first offense shall be fined not
more than $100; upon conviction thereof for a second or subsequent offense
shall be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500.
   (d)   Any employer who discovers that his or her employee has sold or
furnished tobacco products or tobacco-derived products to minors may dismiss
such employee for cause. Any such discharge shall be considered as “gross
misconduct” for the purposes of determining the discharged employee’s
eligibility for unemployment benefits in accordance with the provisions of W.
Va. Code 21A-6-3 if the employer has provided the employee with prior written
notice in the workplace that such act or acts may result in their termination
from employment.
(W. Va. Code 16-9A-2)
   (e)   No person under the age of 21 years shall have on or about his or her
person or premises or use any cigarette, or cigarette paper or any other paper
prepared, manufactured or made for the purpose of smoking any tobacco products,
in any form; or, any pipe, snuff, chewing tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-
derived product; provided, that minors participating in the inspection of
locations where tobacco products or tobacco-derived products are sold or
distributed pursuant to W. Va. Code 16-9A-7 shall not be deemed to violate the
provisions of this division (e). Any person violating the provisions of this
division (e) shall for the first violation be fined $50 and be required to
serve eight hours of community service; for a second violation, the person
shall be fined $100 and be required to serve 16 hours of community service; and
for a third and each subsequent violation, the person shall be fined $200 and
be required to serve 24 hours of community service. Notwithstanding the
provisions of W. Va. Code 49-4-701, the Magistrate Court has concurrent
jurisdiction.
(W. Va. Code 16-9A-3)
§ 525.99 PENALTY.
   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
ARTICLE 529: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS
Section
   
529.01   Assault and battery
   
529.02   Assault and battery on school employees
   
529.021   Assault and battery on governmental representatives, health care
providers, utility workers, law enforcement officers, and emergency medical
service personnel
   
529.03   Controlled substances
   
529.04   Breathing, inhaling, or drinking certain intoxicating compounds
   
529.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Harassing telephone calls, see GEN. OFF.
517.06
   State law provisions, see W. Va. Code Ch. 61-2
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, see W. Va. Code Ch. 60A
§ 529.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (a)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of another or unlawfully commit an act that places another in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
   (b)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully and intentionally make physical
contact of an insulting or provoking nature to the person of another or
unlawfully and intentionally cause physical harm to another person.
(W. Va. Code 61-2-9)
§ 529.02 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON SCHOOL EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   No person shall commit an assault:
      (1)   By unlawfully attempting to commit a violent injury to the person
of a school employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or
her duties, is commuting to or from his or her place of employment, or if the
motive for the assault is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to
supervise or discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code 18A-5-1 or
1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully committing an act which places a school employee in
reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury while the
employee is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or
from his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the assault is
retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline
one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code 18A-5-1 or 1a.
   (b)   No person shall commit a battery:
      (1)   By unlawfully and intentionally making physical contact of an
insulting or provoking nature with the person of a school employee while he or
she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is commuting to or from
his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the battery is retaliation
for some action taken by the employee to supervise or discipline one or more
pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code 18A-5-1 or 1a; or
      (2)   By unlawfully and intentionally causing physical harm to a school
employee while he or she is engaged in the performance of his or her duties, is
commuting to or from his or her place of employment, or if the motive for the
battery is retaliation for some action taken by the employee to supervise or
discipline one or more pupils pursuant to W. Va. Code 18A-5-1 or 1a.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, SCHOOL EMPLOYEE means a person
employed by a county board of education whether employed on a regular full-time
basis, an hourly basis, or otherwise. For the purposes of this section, a
SCHOOL EMPLOYEE includes a student teacher.
(W. Va. Code 61-2-15)
§ 529.021 ASSAULT AND BATTERY ON GOVERNMENTAL REPRESENTATIVES, HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS, UTILITY WORKERS, LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICE PERSONNEL.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed by the West Virginia
Division of Corrections or the West Virginia Regional Jail Authority.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE PERSONNEL. Any paid or volunteer firefighter, emergency
medical technician, paramedic, or other emergency services personnel employed
by or under contract with an emergency medical service provider or a state
agency or political subdivision thereof.
      GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE. Any officer or employee of the state or a
political subdivision thereof, or a person under contract with a state agency
or political subdivision thereof.
      HEALTH CARE WORKER. Any nurse, nurse practitioner, physician, physician
assistant, or technician practicing at, and all persons employed by or under
contract to a hospital, county or district health department, long-term care
facility, physician’s office, clinic, or outpatient treatment facility.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Has the same definition as this term is defined
in W. Va. Code 30-29-1, except for purposes of this section, LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER shall additionally include those individuals defined as “chief
executive” in W. Va. Code 30-29-1.
      UTILITY WORKER. Any individual employed by a public utility or electric
cooperative or under contract to a public utility, electric cooperative, or
interstate pipeline.
   (b)   Battery. No person shall unlawfully, knowingly, and intentionally make
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with a government
representative, health care worker, utility worker, emergency service
personnel, correctional employee, or law enforcement officer acting in his or
her official capacity and the person committing the battery knows or has reason
to know that the victim is acting in his or her official capacity, or
unlawfully and intentionally causes physical harm to that person acting in such
capacity and the person committing the battery knows or has reason to know that
the victim is acting in his or her official capacity. Whoever violates this
division (b) is guilty of a misdemeanor for a first offense.
   (c)   Assault. No person shall unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
to the person of a government representative, health care worker, utility
worker, emergency service personnel, correctional employee, or law enforcement
officer, acting in his or her official capacity and the person committing the
battery knows or has reason to know that the victim is acting in his or her
official capacity, or unlawfully commits an act which places that person acting
in his or her official capacity in reasonable apprehension of immediately
receiving a violent injury and the person committing the battery knows or has
reason to know that the victim is acting in his or her official capacity.
   (d)   Penalty. Any person convicted of any crime set forth in this section
who is incarcerated in a facility operated by the West Virginia Division of
Corrections or the West Virginia Regional Jail Authority, at the time of
committing the offense and whose victim is a correctional employee, may not be
sentenced in a manner by which the sentence would run concurrent with any other
sentence being served at the time of sentencing, but shall run consecutively to
the current sentence.
(W. Va. Code 61-2-10b)
§ 529.03 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   Except as authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A, no person shall
manufacture, deliver, or possess with intent to manufacturer or deliver, a
controlled substance classified in Schedule V under W. Va. Code 60A-2-211 or
60A-2-212.
   (b)   Except as authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A, no person shall create,
deliver, or possess with intent to deliver a counterfeit substance classified
in Schedule V under W. Va. Code 60A-2-211 or 60A-2-212.
   (c)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled
substance as defined in W. Va. Code 60A-1-101 unless the substance was obtained
directly from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a practitioner
while acting in the course of his or her professional practice, or except as
otherwise authorized by W. Va. Code Ch. 60A.
(W. Va. Code 60A-4-401)
   (d)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally:
      (1)   Create, distribute, or deliver, or possess with intent to
distribute or deliver, an imitation controlled substance; or
      (2)   Create, possess, or sell or otherwise transfer any equipment with
the intent that such equipment shall be used to apply a trademark, trade name,
or other identifying mark, imprint, number, or device, or any likeness thereof,
upon a counterfeit substance, an imitation controlled substance, or the
container or label of a counterfeit substance or an imitation controlled
substance.
   (e)   The provisions of division (d)(1) hereof shall not apply to a
practitioner who administers or dispenses a placebo.
(W. Va. Code 60A-4-401)
§ 529.04 BREATHING, INHALING, OR DRINKING CERTAIN INTOXICATING COMPOUNDS.
   (a)   No person shall intentionally breathe, inhale, or drink any compound,
liquid, or chemical containing acetone, amylacetate, benzol or benzene, butyl
acetate, butyl alcohol, carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, cyclohexanone,
ethanol or ethyl alcohol, ethyl acetate, hexane, isopropanol or isopropyl
alcohol, isopropyl acetate, methyl “cellosolve” acetate, methyl ethyl ketone,
methyl isobutyl ketone, toluol or toluene, trichloroethylene, tricresyl
phosphate, xylol or xylene, or any other solvent, material substance, chemical,
or combination thereof, having the property or releasing toxic vapors for the
purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, stupefaction, depression,
giddiness, paralysis, or irrational behavior or in any manner changing,
distorting, or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental processes. For the
purposes of this section, any condition so induced shall be deemed to be an
intoxicated condition.
   (b)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who commits any act described herein pursuant to the
direction or prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to so
direct or prescribe, including the inhalation of anesthesia for medical or
dental purposes; or
      (2)   To any alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer as defined in W.
Va. Code 60-1-5.
(W. Va. Code 61-8-11)
§ 529.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
529.01(a),
529.02(a), or
529.04 shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
ARTICLE 533: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
533.01   Shoplifting
   
533.02   Trespass
   
533.03   Petit larceny
   
533.04   Dealing with stolen goods
   
533.05   Injury or destruction of property or monuments
   
533.06   Tampering with and theft of utilities; CATV
   
533.07   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, and the like
   
533.08   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
   
533.09   Unauthorized use of dumpsters
   
533.10   Fraudulently obtaining food or lodging
   
533.11   Abandoned airtight containers
   
533.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to regulate advertising, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(31)
   State law provisions, see W. Va. Code Ch. 61-3
§ 533.01 SHOPLIFTING.
   (a)   General definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CARD-NOT-PRESENT CREDIT OR DEBIT TRANSACTION. A credit or debit sale of
merchandise by telephone, mail order, internet, or other means that does not
require the cardholder’s signature or physical presentation of the credit or
debit card to the merchant.
      CONCEAL. To hide, hold, or carry merchandise so that, although there may
be some notice of its presence, it is not visible through ordinary observation.
      MERCHANT. An owner or operator of any mercantile establishment, and
includes the merchant’s employees, servants, security agents, or other agents.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where merchandise is displayed, held,
or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale. MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT
does not include adjoining parking lots or adjoining areas of common use with
other establishments.
      MERCHANDISE. Any goods, foodstuffs, wares, or personal property or any
part or portion thereof of any type or description displayed, held, or offered
for sale, or a shopping cart.
      VALUE OF THE MERCHANDISE. The merchant’s stated price of the merchandise,
or in the event of altering, transferring or removing a price marking or
causing a cash register or other sales device to reflect less than the retail
value of the merchandise, as defined in division (b) hereof, the difference
between the merchant’s stated price of the merchandise and the altered price.
(W. Va. Code 61-3A-6)
   (b)   Shoplifting defined.
      (1)   A person commits the offense of shoplifting if, with intent to
appropriate merchandise without paying the merchant’s stated price for the
merchandise, such person, alone or in concert with another person, knowingly:
         A.   Conceals the merchandise upon his or her person or in another
manner;
         B.   Removes or causes the removal of merchandise from the mercantile
establishment or beyond the last station for payment;
         C.   Alters, transfers, or removes any price marking affixed to the
merchandise;
         D.   Transfers the merchandise from one container to another;
         E.   Causes cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the merchant’s stated price for the merchandise;
         F.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of the mercantile
establishment; or
         G.   Repudiates a card-not-present credit or debit transaction after
having taken delivery of merchandise ordered from the merchant and does not
return the merchandise or attempt to make other arrangements with the vendor.
      (2)   A person also commits the offense of shoplifting if such person,
alone or in concert with another person, knowingly and with intent obtains an
exchange or refund or attempts to obtain an exchange or refund for merchandise
which has not been purchased from the mercantile establishment.
(W. Va. Code 61-3A-1)
   (c)   Breach of peace; detention. An act of shoplifting, as defined herein,
is hereby declared to constitute a breach of peace and any owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, or any law enforcement officer who
has reasonable ground to believe that a person has committed shoplifting, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time
not to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of investigating whether or not such
person has committed or attempted to commit shoplifting. Such reasonable
detention shall not constitute an arrest nor shall it render the owner of
merchandise, his or her agent or employee, liable to the person detained.
(W. Va. Code 61-3A-4)
   (d)   Evidence.
      (1)   Evidence of stated price or ownership of merchandise may include,
but is not limited to:
         A.   The actual merchandise alleged to have been shoplifted;
         B.   The unaltered content of the price tag or marking from such
merchandise; or
         C.   Properly identified photographs of such merchandise.
      (2)   Any merchant may testify at a trial as to the stated price or
ownership of merchandise, as well as to other matters pertaining to the case.
(W. Va. Code 61-3A-2)
   (e)   Civil liability.
      (1)   General rule. Any person who commits any of the acts described in
this section shall be civilly liable:
         A.   To restore the merchandise to the mercantile establishment;
         B.   If such merchandise is not recoverable or is damaged, for actual
damages, including the value of the merchandise involved in the shoplifting;
         C.   For other actual damages arising from the incident, not including
the loss of time or loss of wages incurred by the mercantile establishment or
any merchant in connection with the apprehension and processing of the suspect;
and
         D.   In all cases, for a penalty to be paid to the mercantile
establishment in the amount of $50 or double the value of the merchandise,
whichever is higher.
      (2)   Costs and attorneys’ fees. A merchant who is a prevailing party
under this section is entitled to costs.
      (3)   Effect of conviction. A conviction for the offense of theft by
shoplifting is not a prerequisite to the maintenance of a civil action
authorized by this section. However, a merchant who has recovered the penalty
prescribed by division (f) hereof is not entitled to recover the penalty
imposed by this section.
      (4)   Right to demand payment. The fact that a mercantile establishment
may bring an action against an individual as provided in this section does not
limit the right of such establishment to demand, orally or in writing, that a
person who is liable for damages or a penalty under this section remit such
damages or penalty prior to the commencement of any legal action.
(W. Va. Code 61-3A-5)
   (f)   Penalty. A person convicted of shoplifting shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   First offense conviction. Upon a first shoplifting conviction:
         A.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500,
the defendant shall be fined not more than $250; or
         B.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 and such fine shall not be
suspended; or the defendant shall be confined in jail not more than 30 days, or
both.
      (2)   Second offense conviction. Upon a second shoplifting conviction:
         A.   When the value of the merchandise is less than or equal to $500,
the defendant shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, and such
fine shall not be suspended, or the defendant shall be confined in jail not
more than 30 days, or both; or
         B.   When the value of the merchandise exceeds $500, the defendant
shall be fined not less than $500 and shall be confined in jail not more than
30 days.
      (3)   Mandatory penalty. In addition to the fines and imprisonment
imposed by this section, in all cases of conviction for the offense of
shoplifting, the court shall order the defendant to pay a penalty to the
mercantile establishment involved in the amount of $50, or double the value of
the merchandise involved, whichever is higher. The mercantile establishment
shall be entitled to collect such mandatory penalty as in the case of a civil
judgment. This penalty shall be in addition to the mercantile establishment’s
rights to recover the stolen merchandise.
      (4)   Prior convictions. In determining the number of prior shoplifting
convictions for purposes of imposing punishment under this section, the court
shall disregard all such convictions occurring more than seven years prior to
the shoplifting offense in question.
(W. Va. Code 61-3A-3)
§ 533.02 TRESPASS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONVEYANCE. Any motor vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft, or sleeping
car, and TO ENTER A CONVEYANCE includes taking apart any portion of the
conveyance.
      CULTIVATED LAND. The land which has been cleared of its natural
vegetation and is presently planted with a crop, orchard, grove, pasture, or
trees or is fallow land as part of a crop rotation.
      FENCED LAND. 
         A.   The land which has been enclosed by a fence of substantial
construction, whether with rails, logs, post and railing, iron, steel, barbed
wire, other wire or other material, which stands at least three feet in height.
For the purpose of this section it shall not be necessary to fence any boundary
or part of a boundary of any land which is formed by water and is posted with
signs pursuant to the provisions of this section.
         B.   Where lands are posted, cultivated, or fenced as described
herein, then such lands, for the purpose of this section, shall be considered
as enclosed and posted.
      IN THE COURSE OF COMMITTING. An act is committed IN THE COURSE OF
COMMITTING if it occurs in an attempt to commit the offense or in flight after
the attempt or commission.
      POSTED LAND. 
         A.   Land that has:
            1.   Signs placed not more than 500 feet apart, along and at each
corner of the boundaries of the land. The signs shall be reasonably maintained,
with letters of not less than two inches in height, and the words “no
trespassing”. The signs shall be placed along the boundary line and at all
roads, driveways, and gates of entry onto the POSTED LAND so as to be clearly
noticeable from outside of the boundary line; or
            2.   Boundaries marked with a clearly visible purple painted
marking, consisting of one vertical line no less than eight inches in length
and two inches in width, and the bottom of the mark not less than three nor
more than six feet from the ground or normal water surface. Such marks shall be
affixed to immovable, permanent objects that are no more than 100 feet apart
and readily visible to any person approaching the property. Signs shall also be
posted at all roads, driveways, or gates of entry onto the POSTED LAND so as to
be clearly noticeable from outside the boundary line.
         B.   It is not necessary to give notice by posting on any enclosed
land or place not exceeding five acres in area on which there is a dwelling
house or property that by its nature and use is obviously private in order to
obtain the benefits of this article pertaining to trespass on enclosed lands.
      STRUCTURE. Any building of any kind either temporary or permanent, which
has a roof over it, together with the curtilage thereof.
      TRESPASS. The willful unauthorized entry upon, in, or under the property
of another, but shall not include the following:
         A.   Entry by the state, its political subdivisions, or by the
officers, agencies, or instrumentalities thereof as authorized and provided by
law;
         B.   The exercise of rights in, under, or upon property by virtue of
rights-of-way or easements by a public utility or other person owning such
right-of-way or easement whether by written or prescriptive right;
         C.   Permissive entry, whether written or oral, and entry from a
public road by the established private ways to reach a residence for the
purpose of seeking permission shall not be TRESPASS unless signs are posted
prohibiting such entry;
         D.   Entry performed in the exercise of a property right under
ownership of an interest in, under, or upon such property; or
         E.   Entry where no physical damage is done to property in the
performance of surveying to ascertain property boundaries, and in the
performance of necessary work of construction, maintenance, and repair of a
common property line fence, or buildings or appurtenances which are immediately
adjacent to the property line, and maintenance of which necessitates entry upon
the adjoining owner’s property.
(W. Va. Code 61-3B-1)
   (b)   Trespass in structure or conveyance. Any person who knowingly enters
in, upon, or under a structure or conveyance without being authorized,
licensed, or invited, or having been authorized, licensed, or invited is
requested to depart by the owner, tenant, or the agent of such owner or tenant,
and refuses to do so, shall be fined not more than $100. If the offender is
armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon while in the structure or
conveyance, with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a
human being in such structure or conveyance at the time the offender knowingly
trespasses, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code
61-7-1, be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99(a).
(W. Va. Code 61-3B-2)
   (c)   Trespass on property other than structure or conveyance.
      (1)   Whoever knowingly and without being authorized, licensed, or
invited, enters or remains on any property, other than a structure or
conveyance, as to which notice against entering or remaining is either given by
actual communication to such person or by posting, fencing, or cultivation,
shall be fined as follows.
         A.   First offense conviction. Upon a first trespassing conviction
pursuant to division (b) of this section, the person shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
         B.   Second offense conviction. Upon a second trespassing conviction
pursuant to division (b) of this section, the person shall be fined not less
than $500 nor more than $1,000.
         C.   Third offense conviction. Upon a third and subsequent trespassing
conviction pursuant to division (b) of this section, the person shall be fined
not less than $1,000 nor more than $1,500.
      (2)   If the offender defies an order to leave, personally communicated
to him or her by the owner, tenant, or agent of such owner or tenant, or if the
offender opens any door, fence, or gate, and thereby exposes animals, crops, or
other property to waste, destruction, or freedom, or causes any damage to
property by such trespassing on property other than a structure or conveyance,
he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
501.99(a).
      (3)   If the offender is armed with a firearm or other dangerous weapon
with the unlawful and felonious intent to do bodily injury to a human being
during his or her commission of the offense of trespass on property other than
a structure or conveyance, such offender shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of W. Va. Code 61-7-1, be imprisoned not more than 30 days or fined not more
than $100, or both.
      (4)   Notwithstanding and in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, any person who performs or causes damage to property in the course of a
willful trespass shall be liable to the property owner in the amount of twice
the amount of such damage, provided, that the provisions of this section shall
not apply in a labor dispute.
(W. Va. Code 61-3B-3)
§ 533.03 PETIT LARCENY.
   No person shall commit petit larceny as defined in W. Va. Code 61-3-13
within the city.
§ 533.04 DEALING WITH STOLEN GOODS.
   If any person buys or receives from another person, or aids in concealing,
or transfers to a person other than the owner thereof, any stolen goods or
other thing of value which he or she knows or has reason to believe has been
stolen, he or she shall be deemed guilty of the larceny thereof, and may be
prosecuted although the principal offender is not convicted.
(W. Va. Code 61-3-18)
§ 533.05 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY OR MONUMENTS.
   (a)   No person shall unlawfully, but not feloniously, take and carry away
or destroy, tamper with, injure, or deface any property, real or personal, not
his or her own.
   (b)   No person shall break down, destroy, injure, deface, or remove any
monument erected for the purpose of designating the boundaries of the
municipality, tract, or lot of land, or any tree marked for that purpose.
(W. Va. Code 61-3-30)
§ 533.06 TAMPERING WITH AND THEFT OF UTILITIES; CATV.
   (a)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall procure, make, or
cause to be made, any pipe, tube, wire, or other conductor of gas, water, sewer
or electric energy, and connect the same, or cause it to be connected, with any
main, service pipe, or other pipe for conducting or supplying gas, sewer or
water or any wires or other conductor of electric energy, in such manner as to
supply gas, water, sewer or electric energy to any lamp, motor, burner,
orifice, or any other device, by or at which gas, water, sewer or electric
energy is consumed, around or without passing through the meter provided for
measuring and registering the quantity of gas, water, sewer or electric energy
consumed, or in any other manner so as to evade payment therefor, and no
person, with like intent, shall injure or alter any gas, water, sewer or
electric meter, or obstruct its action.
(W. Va. Code 61-3-44)
   (b)   No person with intent to injure or defraud shall connect, or cause to
be connected, any pipe, tube, wire, electrical conductor, or other instrument
with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit or flume for conducting
water, or with any main, service pipe, or other pipe or conduit for conducting
gas, or with any main, service wire, or other electric conductor used for the
purpose of conducting electric energy for light, heat, or motive services, for
the purpose of taking therefrom water, gas, sewer or electric energy, without
the knowledge of the owner thereof and with intent to evade payment therefor.
(W. Va. Code 61-3-45)
   (c)   No person shall make any unauthorized connection, whether physically,
electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a CATV
system within the municipality for the purpose of enabling anyone to receive
any television signal, radio signal, picture, sound, or other transmission,
without payment for the service.
   (d)   No person, without the consent of the owner, shall willfully tamper
with, remove, or injure any cables, wires, or equipment used for distribution
of television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound, or other transmission.
§ 533.07 LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK, AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No person shall, without lawful authority, place or dispose of in any
manner, upon any public property or upon the premises of another, any paper,
trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse, junk, or any substance or material
which is or may become noxious, offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the
public health, comfort, or safety.
   (b)   No person shall cause or allow trash, garbage, waste, rubbish, refuse,
or any other noxious or offensive materials or substances to be collected or
remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of the public, or
unlawfully obstruct, impede, divert, corrupt, or render unwholesome or impure,
any natural watercourse.
§ 533.08 BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public or
private property, any excavation, well, cesspool, or structure which is in the
process of construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration unless the same
is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning devices
or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove dangerous to
life or limb.
   (b)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage, or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
   (c)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well, or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to
build, or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground
surface with rock, gravel, earth, or other suitable material.
§ 533.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DUMPSTERS.
   No person without authorization shall dump garbage or trash, or assist in
the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash, in a dumpster or other solid
waste container which is located on the property of another person and leased
or otherwise owned or maintained by another person. The act of throwing
isolated objects into a dumpster or other solid waste container in the
prevention or elimination of litter is specifically excepted from any penalties
under this section.
(W. Va. Code 61-3-53)
§ 533.10 FRAUDULENTLY OBTAINING FOOD OR LODGING.
   No person shall, at any hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or
restaurant, receive or cause to be furnished any food or accommodation, with
intent to defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant. No person shall obtain credit at any hotel, inn,
eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, by the use of any false
pretense or device, or by depositing in such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, any baggage or property of less value than the
amount of such credit, or of the bill by such person incurred, with such
fraudulent intent. No person after obtaining credit or accommodation at any
hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, shall abscond from
such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or boardinghouse, or restaurant, or shall
remove or attempt to remove therefrom any baggage or personal property of any
kind subject to the lien provided for in W. Va. Code 38-11-5, with intent to
defraud the owner or keeper of such hotel, inn, eating, lodging or
boardinghouse, or restaurant, without first having paid, satisfied, or arranged
all claims or bills for lodging, entertainment, or accommodation.
(W. Va. Code 61-3-40)
§ 533.11 ABANDONED AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No person shall abandon any refrigerator or food freezer appliance or other
airtight appliance having a height or length of greater then two feet without
first removing all entry doors therefrom.
(W. Va. Code 61-2-26)
§ 533.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99 for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Whoever violates §§
533.05(b) or
533.10 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (c)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
533.09 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Upon a first conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $250;
      (2)   Upon a second conviction, the defendant shall be fined not less
than $250 nor more than $500; and
      (3)   Upon any subsequent conviction in excess of a second conviction,
the defendant shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of W. Va. Code 61-11A-4 or W. Va. Code
50-3-2a, the magistrate or court may order restitution not to exceed the value
of unauthorized solid waste services received.
(W. Va. Code Ch. 61)
   (e)   Whoever violates §
533.11 shall be fined not more than $200 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
ARTICLE 545: WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
545.01   Definitions
   
545.02   Carrying a deadly weapon without provisional license or other
authorization by persons under 21 years of age
   
545.03   Exceptions as to prohibitions against carrying concealed handguns for
persons at least 18 years of age and fewer than 21 years of age
   
545.04   Persons prohibited from possession of firearms
   
545.05   Possession of deadly weapons by minors prohibited
   
545.06   Possession of machine guns
   
545.07   Display or sale of deadly weapons
   
545.08   Brandishing deadly weapons
   
545.09   Possessing deadly weapons on premises of educational facilities
   
545.10   Fireworks sale, possession, and discharge
   
545.11   Discharging firearms
   
545.12   Throwing or shooting missiles
   
545.99    Penalty
Cross-references:
   See sectional histories for similar state law
   Authority to prohibit carrying weapons, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(16)
   Dangerous weapons, see W. Va. Code Art. 61-7
   Limitations on power to restrict ownership, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5a
§ 545.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLACKJACK. A short bludgeon consisting, at the striking end, of an encased
piece of lead or some other heavy substance and, at the handle end, a strap or
springy shaft which increases the force of impact when a person or object is
struck. BLACKJACK includes, but is not limited to, a billy, billy club, sand
club, sandbag, or slapjack.
   CONCEALED. Hidden from ordinary observation so as to prevent disclosure or
recognition. A deadly weapon is CONCEALED when it is carried on or about the
person in such a manner that another person in the ordinary course of events
would not be placed on notice that the deadly weapon was being carried. For
purposes of concealed handgun licensees, a licensee shall be deemed to be
carrying on or about his or her person while in or on a motor vehicle if the
firearm is located in a storage area in or on the motor vehicle.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W.
Va. Code 61-7-2.
   DEADLY WEAPON. An instrument which is designed to be used to produce serious
bodily injury or death, or is readily adaptable to such use. The term DEADLY
WEAPON includes, but is not limited to, the instruments defined in this
section, or other deadly weapons of like kind or character which may be easily
concealed on or about the person. For the purposes of W. Va. Code Ch. 61 and
61-7-11a, in addition to the definition of “knife” set forth below, DEADLY
WEAPON also includes any instrument included within the definition of “knife”
with a blade of three and one-half inches or less in length. Additionally, for
the purposes of W. Va. Code 18-3-1a and 61-7-11a, DEADLY WEAPON includes
explosives, chemical, biological, and radiological materials. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, the term DEADLY WEAPON does not include
any item or material owned by the school or county board, intended for
curricular use, and used by the student at the time of the alleged offense
solely for curricular purposes.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as is ascribed to that term in W. Va. Code 61-7-
2.
   FIREARM. Any weapon which will expel a projectile by action of an explosion.
   GRAVITY KNIFE. Any knife that has a blade released from the handle by the
force of gravity or the application of centrifugal force, and when so released
is locked in place by means of a button, spring, lever, or other locking or
catching device.
   KNIFE. An instrument, intended to be used or readily adaptable to be used as
a weapon, consisting of a sharp-edged or sharp-pointed blade, usually made of
steel, attached to a handle, which is capable of inflicting cutting, stabbing,
or tearing wounds. KNIFE includes, but is not limited to, any dagger, dirk,
poniard, or stiletto with a blade over three and one-half inches in length, any
switchblade knife or gravity knife, and any other instrument capable of
inflicting cutting, stabbing, or tearing wounds. A pocket knife with a blade
three and one-half inches or less in length, a hunting or fishing knife carried
for hunting, fishing, sports, or other recreational uses, or a knife designed
for use as a tool or household implement shall not be included within the term
KNIFE as defined herein, unless such knife is knowingly used or intended to be
used to produce serious bodily injury or death.
   METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES. A set of finger rings attached to a transverse
piece, to be worn over the front of the hand for use as a weapon, and
constructed in such a manner that, when striking another person with the fist
or closed hand, considerable physical damage may be inflicted upon the person
struck. The term METALLIC OR FALSE KNUCKLES includes any such instrument,
without reference to the metal or other substance or substances from which the
metallic or false knuckles are made.
   NUNCHAKU. A flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts,
connected by a chain, cable, rope, or other nonrigid, flexible, or springy
material, constructed in such a manner as to allow the rigid parts to swing
freely, so that one rigid part may be used as a handle and the other rigid part
may be used as the striking end.
   PISTOL. A short firearm having a chamber which is integral with the barrel,
designed to be aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   REVOLVER. A short firearm having a cylinder of several chambers that are
brought successively into line with the barrel to be discharged, designed to be
aimed and fired by the use of a single hand.
   SWITCHBLADE KNIFE. Any knife having a spring-operated blade which opens
automatically upon pressure being applied to a button, catch, or other
releasing device in its handle.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-2)
§ 545.02 CARRYING A DEADLY WEAPON WITHOUT PROVISIONAL LICENSE OR OTHER
AUTHORIZATION BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (a)   No person under 21 years of age, and not otherwise prohibited from
possessing firearms under §
545.03, shall carry a concealed deadly weapon without a state license or other
lawful authorization established under the provisions of the West Virginia
Code.
   (b)   Whoever violates this section shall, for a first offense, be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-3)
§ 545.03 EXCEPTIONS AS TO PROHIBITIONS AGAINST CARRYING CONCEALED HANDGUNS FOR
PERSONS AT LEAST 18 YEARS OF AGE AND FEWER THAN 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (a)   The provisions in §
545.02 do not apply to any person at least 18 years of age and fewer than 21
years of age who is:
      (1)   Carrying a deadly weapon upon his or her own premises;
      (2)   Carrying a firearm, unloaded, from the place of purchase to his or
her home, residence, or place of business or to a place of repair and back to
his or her home, residence, or place of business; or
      (3)   Possessing a firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while
traveling from his or her home, residence, or place of business to a hunting
site and returning to his or her home, residence, or place of business;
      (4)   A member of a properly organized target-shooting club authorized by
law to obtain firearms by purchase or requisition from this state or from the
United States for the purpose of target practice from carrying any pistol, as
defined in this article, unloaded, from his or her home, residence, or place of
business to a place of target practice and from any place of target practice
back to his or her home, residence, or place of business, for using any such
weapon at a place of target practice in training and improving his or her skill
in the use of the weapons;
      (5)   A law enforcement officer or law enforcement official or chief
executive as defined in W. Va. Code 30-29-1;
      (6)   An employee of the West Virginia Division of Corrections duly
appointed pursuant to W. Va. Code 15A-3-10, while the employee is on duty;
      (7)   A member of the United States Armed Forces, Reserve, or National
Guard;
      (8)   A resident of another state who holds a valid permit or license to
possess or carry a handgun issued by a state or a political subdivision subject
to the provisions and limitations set forth in W. Va. Code 61-7-6a;
      (9)   A federal law enforcement officer or federal police officer
authorized to carry a weapon in the performance of the officer’s duty; and
      (10)   A parole officer appointed pursuant to W. Va. Code 15A-7-5 in the
performance of his or her duties.
   (b)   The following judicial officers and prosecutors and staff are exempt
from paying any application fees or licensure fees required under the West
Virginia Code; however, they shall make application and satisfy all licensure
and handgun safety and training requirements to obtain a license as set forth
in W. Va. Code 61-7-4:
      (1)   Any justice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia;
      (2)   Any circuit judge;
      (3)   Any retired justice or retired circuit judge designated senior
status by the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia;
      (4)   Any family court judge;
      (5)   Any magistrate;
      (6)   Any prosecuting attorney;
      (7)   Any assistant prosecuting attorney; or
      (8)   Any duly appointed investigator employed by a prosecuting attorney.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-6)
§ 545.04 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM POSSESSION OF FIREARMS.
   (a)   Except as provided in this section, no person shall possess a firearm,
as such is defined in §
545.01, who:
      (1)   Has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year;
      (2)   Is habitually addicted to alcohol;
      (3)   Is an unlawful user of or habitually addicted to any controlled
substance;
      (4)   Has been adjudicated to be mentally incompetent or who has been
involuntarily committed to a mental institution pursuant to the provisions of
W. Va. Code Ch. 27 or in similar law of another jurisdiction; provided, that
once an individual has been adjudicated as a mental defective or involuntarily
committed to a mental institution, he or she shall be duly notified that they
are to immediately surrender any firearms in their ownership or possession;
provided, however, that the Mental Hygiene Commissioner or Circuit Judge shall
first make a determination of the appropriate public or private individual or
entity to act as conservator for the surrendered property;
      (5)   Is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States;
      (6)   Has been discharged from the armed forces under dishonorable
conditions;
      (7)   Is subject to a domestic violence protective order that:
         A.   Was issued after a hearing of which such person received actual
notice and at which such person had an opportunity to participate;
         B.   Restrains such person from harassing, stalking, or threatening an
intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person, or
engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable
fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; and
         C.   1.   Includes a finding that such person represents a credible
threat to the physical safety of such intimate partner or child; or
            2.   By its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use, or
threatened use of physical force against such intimate partner or child that
would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.
      (8)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor offense of assault or battery
either under the provisions of W. Va. Code 61-2-28, or the provisions of W. Va.
Code 61-2-9(a) or (b), or a federal or state statute with the same essential
elements in which the victim was a current or former spouse, current or former
sexual or intimate partner, person with whom the defendant has a child in
common, person with whom the defendant cohabits or has cohabited, a parent or
guardian, the defendant’s child or ward or a member of the defendant’s
household at the time of the offense or has been convicted in any court of any
jurisdiction of a comparable misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.
   (b)   Any person prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of
division (a) of this section may petition the circuit court of the county in
which he or she resides to regain the ability to possess a firearm and if the
court finds by clear and convincing evidence that the person is competent and
capable of exercising the responsibility concomitant with the possession of a
firearm, the court may enter an order allowing the person to possess a firearm
if such possession would not violate any federal law; provided, that a person
prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of division (a)(4) of
this section may petition to regain the ability to possess a firearm in
accordance with W. Va. Code 61-7A-5.
   (c)   Any person may carry a concealed deadly weapon without a license
therefor who is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   A United States citizen or legal resident thereof;
      (3)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of
this section; and
      (4)   Not prohibited from possessing a firearm under the provisions of 18
U.S.C. § 922(g) or (n).
   (d)   Any person who has been convicted of an offense which disqualifies him
or her from possessing a firearm by virtue of a criminal conviction whose
conviction was expunged or set aside or who subsequent thereto receives an
unconditional pardon for said offense shall not be prohibited from possessing a
firearm by the provisions of the section.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-7)
§ 545.05 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPONS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a
person under the age of 18 years who is not married or otherwise emancipated
shall not possess or carry concealed or openly any deadly weapon; provided,
that a minor may possess a firearm upon premises owned by such minor or his or
her family or on the premises of another with the permission of his or her
parent or guardian and, in the case of property other than his or her own or
that of his or her family, with the permission of the owner or lessee of such
property. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a minor from possessing a
firearm while hunting in a lawful manner or while traveling from a place where
he or she may lawfully possess a deadly weapon, to a hunting site, and
returning to a place where he or she may lawfully possess such weapon.
   (b)   A violation of this section by a person under the age of 18 years
shall subject the child to the jurisdiction of the circuit court under the
provisions of W. Va. Code 49-4-701 et seq., and such minor may be proceeded
against in the same manner as if he or she had committed an act which if
committed by an adult would be a crime, and may be adjudicated delinquent.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-8)
§ 545.06 POSSESSION OF MACHINE GUNS.
   No person shall carry, transport, or have in his or her possession, any
machine gun, submachine gun, or any other fully automatic weapon unless he or
she has fully complied with applicable federal statutes and all applicable
rules and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States
relating to such firearms.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-9)
§ 545.07 DISPLAY OR SALE OF DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person shall publicly display and offer for rent or sale, or, where the
person is other than a natural person, knowingly permit an employee thereof to
publicly display and offer for rent or sale, to any passersby on any street,
road, or alley, any deadly weapon, machine gun, submachine gun, or other fully
automatic weapon, any rifle, shotgun, or ammunition for same.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-10)
§ 545.08 BRANDISHING DEADLY WEAPONS.
   No person armed with a firearm or other deadly weapon, whether licensed to
carry the same or not, shall carry, brandish, or use such weapon in a way or
manner to cause, or threaten, a breach of the peace.
(W. Va. Code 61-7-11)
§ 545.09 POSSESSING DEADLY WEAPONS ON PREMISES OF EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES.
Editor’s note:
   Former § 545.09 which was derived from W. Va. Code 61-7-11a is no longer
included in the codified ordinances. By Acts 1995 Ch. 90, the West Virginia
Legislature reclassified such offense as a felony. Charges for possessing
deadly weapons on premises of educational facilities should now be filed under
state law.
§ 545.10 FIREWORKS SALE, POSSESSION, AND DISCHARGE.
   (a)   FIREWORKS means any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration, or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols,
toy cannons, toy canes, or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of
unmanned balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, or other
fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or
flammable compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance, except that the term FIREWORKS shall not include: model rockets and
model rocket engines, designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable acro models and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns
or other devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with
the United States Department of Transportation regulations for packing and
shipping of toy paper or plastic caps are used and toy paper or plastic caps
manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times. Each package containing toy paper or plastic caps offered for
retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
The following sparklers and novelties shall not be considered FIREWORKS and
require a business registration fee be paid to be authorized to sell, as
provided in W. Va. Code 11-12-86:
      (1)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols, provided that
the explosive mixture of the caps shall not exceed twenty-five hundredths of a
grain for each cap;
      (2)   Snake and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a pyrotechnic
mixture that produce a large snake-like ash when burning;
      (3)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a
pyrotechnic mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
      (4)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to surprise
the user and which include:
         A.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item containing
not in excess of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to activate the device, expelling
paper streamers and producing a small report;
         B.   A string popper, which is a small tube containing not in excess
of twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture with string
protruding from both ends. The strings are pulled to activate the friction-
sensitive mixture, producing a small report; and
         C.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small paper wrapped item
containing no more than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture
coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
      (5)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items
must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
      (6)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and sometimes
a whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or explode, are
hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the air and contain
not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube or not more than a total
of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used; provided, that sparklers and sparkler
devices as provided for herein shall not be sold to anyone below the age of 16
years old.
(W. Va. Code Ch. 29-3E)
   (b)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership,
or corporation shall offer for sale, possess, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks; provided,
permits for the supervised display of fireworks may be granted upon application
to the State Fire Marshal and after approval of the Police and Fire Chiefs or
designee thereof, and the filing of a bond by the applicant as provided
hereinafter. Every such display shall be handled by a competent operator
licensed or certified as to competency by the State Fire Marshal and shall be
of such composition, character, and so located, discharged, or fired as, in the
opinion of the Fire Chief or designee thereof, after proper inspection, and of
the Police Chief, shall not be hazardous to property or endanger any person or
persons. After such privilege shall have been granted, the sale, possession,
use, and distribution of fireworks for such display shall be lawful for that
purpose only. No permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
      (2)   The City Council shall require a bond from the licensee in a sum
not less than $1,000 conditioned on compliance with the provisions of this
section and W. Va. Code Ch. 29-3 and the regulations of the State Fire
Commission, provided that the municipality shall not be required to file such
bond.
      (3)   Before any permit for a pyrotechnic display shall be issued, the
person, firm, or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of any act or omission on the part of such person, firm,
or corporation or any agent or employee thereof, in such amount, character, and
form as the State Fire Marshal determines to be necessary for the protection of
the public.
(W. Va. Code Ch. 29-3E)
§ 545.11 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (a)   No person shall discharge any air gun, rifle, shotgun, revolver,
pistol, or other firearm within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (b)   This section does not apply when firearms are used in self defense, in
the discharge of official duty, or when otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 545.12 THROWING OR SHOOTING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw, shoot, or propel an arrow, missile, pellet, stone,
metal, or other similar substance capable of causing physical harm to persons
or property, in or on any public place, in or on the property of another, or
from any private property into or onto any public place or the property of
another. This section does not apply to supervised archery ranges or
instruction, nor when otherwise lawfully authorized.
§ 545.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   See §
501.99(a) for general Code penalty if no specific penalty is provided.
   (b)   Whoever violates §
545.04 shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 days,
or both.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (a) of this section, any
person:
      (1)   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction of a
felony crime of violence against the person of another or of a felony sexual
offense; or
      (2)   Who has been convicted in this state or any other jurisdiction of a
felony controlled substance offense involving a Schedule I controlled substance
other than marijuana, a Schedule II or a Schedule III controlled substance as
such are defined in W. Va. Code 60A-2-204, 60A-2-205, and 60A-2-206, and who
possesses a firearm as such is defined in § 545.01 shall be guilty of a felony
and shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law. The provisions of §
545.04(b) shall not apply to persons convicted of offenses referred to in this
division (c) or to persons convicted of a violation of this division (c).
(W. Va. Code 61-7-7)
PART VII: BUSINESS REGULATION AND TAXATION CODE
   Chapter
      
1.   BUSINESS REGULATION
      
3.   TAXES AND SERVICE CHARGES
CHAPTER 1: BUSINESS REGULATION
Article
   705.   In General
   709.   Miscellaneous Business and Activities
   711.   Stores
ARTICLE 705: IN GENERAL
Section
   
705.01   Short title
   
705.02   Definitions
   
705.03   Business franchise registration tax levied
   
705.04   Application for business registration certificate; issuance of
business certificate; effect of business registration certificate
   
705.05   Time for which registration certificate granted; power of City
Collector-Treasurer to cancel certificate
   
705.06   Business certificate a personal privilege not assignable
   
705.07   Display of registration certificate; injunctions; public information
   
705.08   Collection by distraint
   
705.09   Collection of back taxes; notice of discontinuing of business
   
705.10   Collection by civil action; venue
   
705.11   Assessment; jeopardy assessment
   
705.12   Hearing; appeal
   
705.13   Forms and regulations; enforcement
   
705.14   Disposition of money collected
   
705.15   Exemptions from purchase of certain licenses
 
   
705.99   Penalty
§ 705.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be cited as the “Business Franchise Registration Tax.”
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any business, whether a person engaged expressly or impliedly
holds himself or herself out as engaged in business or supplying his or her
products or a commodity or service to the public as a class or a limited
portion of the public or sells any goods, wares, merchandise of any kind or
provides a service of any kind; provided, however, that BUSINESS shall not
include sales of products of the farm, garden, or dairy by the producer or
grower thereof; occasional sales by societies acting for charitable, religious
or benevolent purposes; judicial sales directed by law or court order; or any
business the gross income of which is less than $1,000 per license year.
   BUSINESS FRANCHISE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A franchise or certificate
authorizing a person to conduct business within the city and when referred to
in this article as certificate or registration, shall mean BUSINESS FRANCHISE
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   CITY COLLECTOR-TREASURER. The City Collector-Treasurer or his or her agent.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts of the business received as compensation
for personal services and from trade, commerce, or sales and the value accruing
from the sale of tangible property (real or personal), or service, or both,
without any deduction on account of the cost of property sold, materials used,
labor costs, taxes or any other expense whatsoever.
   PERSON or COMPANY. Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, trust, and any other group or combination acting as a
unit in the plural, as well as the singular and when used in connection with
the penalties imposed by §
705.99 of this article, shall mean and include the officers, directors,
trustees, or members of any firm, copartnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, trust or any other groups acting as a unit.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.03 BUSINESS FRANCHISE REGISTRATION TAX LEVIED.
   (a)   No person shall, without a business franchise registration
certificate, engage in or prosecute, in the city any business activity without
first obtaining a business certificate from the city.
   (b)   The business franchise registration tax levied shall be $25 for each
location a person holds himself or herself out to engage in or transact
business therefrom within the city.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.04 APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE; ISSUANCE OF
BUSINESS CERTIFICATE; EFFECT OF BUSINESS REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   (a)   Any person making and filing the proper application for a business
registration certificate on farms to be prescribed and furnished by the City
Collector-Treasurer on tendering the business registration certificate tax for
each business certificate requested shall be provided a certificate if the City
Collector-Treasurer determines to his or her satisfaction that all of the
conditions precedent to the granting of such certificate have been fulfilled by
the applicant before issuing the certificate of registration; provided,
however, that the City Collector-Treasurer shall not issue any certificate of
registration unless and until the City Collector-Treasurer is satisfied that
the person or company applying for said certificate of registration has a valid
and subsisting state certificate of registration.
   (b)   Nothing in this article, in any payment or issuance of any certificate
under the provisions hereof, shall be deemed to legalize any act which
otherwise may be in violation of law, or to exempt any person from any penalty
prescribed from such violation.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.05 TIME FOR WHICH REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE GRANTED; POWER OF CITY
COLLECTOR-TREASURER TO CANCEL CERTIFICATE.
   (a)   All annual certificates issued under the provisions of §
705.04 of this article shall be for a period of one year beginning July 1 and
ending on June 30 the following year.
   (b)   If a registrant shall at any time knowingly or willfully file false
data or information required by §
705.04 of this article, or shall willfully refuse or neglect to file any tax
report or to pay the tax or penalty, or any part thereof, required by W. Va.
Code Ch. 11, or to pay any tax due the city, pursuant to any ordinance of the
city, the City Collector-Treasurer shall set a hearing as prescribed in this
article, notify the person by certified mail not less than 20 days prior to the
hearing date to appear and show cause why such registration certificate should
not be cancelled.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.06 BUSINESS CERTIFICATE A PERSONAL PRIVILEGE NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   Every business certificate issued under the provisions of §
705.04 of this article shall confer a personal privilege only to transact the
business, activity or trade, which may be the subject of the business
certificate and shall not be exercised except by the persons holding the same
and shall not be assignable to any other person. Changes in the name of the
person or change of location, or address, or changes in ownership of the
business or changes in real parties of interest shall be considered a cessation
of the business and a new certificate shall be required. Changes of partners or
members of firms or officers of a corporation shall not require a new
certificate to be issued.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.07 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE; INJUNCTIONS; PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   (a)   Any person to whom a certificate of registration shall be issued under
the provisions of §
705.04 of this article, shall keep such certificate posted in a conspicuous
position in the place where the privilege of such business is exercised. Such
certificate of registration shall be produced for inspection whenever required
by the City Collector-Treasurer or by any law enforcement officers of this
state, county, or the city, wherein the privileges to conduct business is
exercised.
   (b)   No injunction shall issue from any court in the state enjoining the
collection of any business registration certificate tax required herein; and
any person claiming that any business certificate is not due, for any reason,
shall pay the same under protest and petition the City Collector-Treasurer for
a refund in accordance with the ordinances of the city.
   (c)   If any person engaging in or prosecuting any business or trade within
the city, contrary to any other provisions of this article whether without
obtaining a business certificate therefore before commencing the same, or by
continuing the same after the termination of the effective period of any such
business certificate, the circuit court or the judge thereof in vacation, of
the county in which such violation occurred, shall, upon proper application in
the name of the city, and after ten days written notice thereof to such person,
grant an injunction prohibiting such person from continuing such business,
activity or trade until he or she has fully complied with the provisions of
this article. The remedy provided in this section shall be in addition to all
other penalties and remedies provided by law.
   (d)   The City Collector-Treasurer shall make available, when requested,
information as to whether a person is registered to do business in the city.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.08 COLLECTION BY DISTRAINT.
   The City Collector-Treasurer or his or her agent, may distrain upon any
personal or real property, including intangibles, of any person delinquent in
the payment of taxes and penalties accrued and unpaid under the provisions of §
705.03 of this article, and may require the assistance of the sheriff of any
county in levying such distress in the county in which such sheriff is an
officer. The sheriff so collecting taxes due hereunder shall be entitled to
compensation in the amount of all penalties collected over and above the
principal amount of tax due but in no case shall such compensation exceed $25.
All taxes and penalties so collected, less the compensation above, shall be
remitted within ten days after the collection to the City Collector-Treasurer.
The City Collector-Treasurer shall prescribe by general regulation the manner
of remittance of such funds and of allowing the collecting officer the
compensation due him or her under this section. The sheriff shall be authorized
to distrain immediately upon request, as aforesaid, for the amount which any
person may have been assessed under the provisions of this article, and to sell
upon ten days notice so much of said persons property, subject to such
distress, as may be necessary to pay the tax so assessed, including penalties.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.09 COLLECTION OF BACK TAXES; NOTICE OF DISCONTINUING OF BUSINESS.
   (a)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business contrary to
provisions of this article, whether without obtaining a certificate therefore
before commencing the same, or by continuing the same after the termination of
the effective period of such certificate, shall, in addition to all other
penalties provided in this article, be liable for the payment of all back taxes
and penalties for a period not exceeding five years.
   (b)   Whenever any person ceases to engage in business within the city, by
reason of the discontinuance, sale or transfer of by any other means of
disposition of the business, it shall be his or her duty to notify the City
Collector-Treasurer in writing of the discontinuance, sale or transfer or other
disposition of the business, the date thereof and the name and address of the
seller or transferor and purchaser or transferee shall be jointly liable to the
city, for the amount of all taxes and penalties under the provisions of §§
705.03 and
705.99 of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.10 COLLECTION BY CIVIL ACTION; VENUE.
   The City Collector-Treasurer may collect any business registration
certificate tax and penalties unpaid under the provisions of §§
705.03 and
705.99 of this article by civil action or other appropriate legal or equitable
procedure; venue shall be in any court of limited or general jurisdiction in
the city.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.11 ASSESSMENT; JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT.
   (a)   Whenever the City Collector-Treasurer shall determine that any tax due
under §
705.03 of this article has not been paid in full, the City Collector-Treasurer
shall make an assessment, from any available information against the taxpayer
of such deficiency in tax, addition to tax, interest or penalties as he or she
may find to be due, and shall serve the taxpayer with written notice of such
assessment, either in person or by certified mail. For purposes of this
article, such written notice is termed as notice of assessment.
   (b)   If the City Collector-Treasurer believes that the assessment or
collection of a deficiency, or the collection of any tax due under §
705.03 of this article, will be jeopardized by delay, he or she shall
immediately make an assessment of such deficiency for such tax due together
with all additional amounts, interest or penalties provided for by §
705.99 of this article, noting that fact upon the assessment. The amount so
assessed shall be immediately due and payable, and a notice of assessment and
demand for the payment thereof shall be served upon the taxpayer. If the
taxpayer against whom a jeopardy assessment is made desires to immediately make
a petition for reassessment, his or her petition shall be accompanied by such
security as the City Collector-Treasurer may deem necessary to ensure
compliance with this article. If such petition for reassessment is filed,
accompanied by the necessary security, the provisions for hearing,
determination and appeal set forth in this article shall then be applicable.
The City Collector-Treasurer may abate in whole or in part any assessment which
he or she shall determine to be erroneous.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.12 HEARING; APPEAL.
   (a)   Any person against whom an order or decision of the City Collector-
Treasurer, or his or her representative, has been adversely affected relating
to the granting or the cancelling of the certificate, or any other matter
wherein the findings are in the discretion of the City Collector-Treasurer, may
appeal from such determination by requesting a hearing before the City
Collector-Treasurer, or his or her examiner, if such request is made within 30
days from receipt of such order or decision.
   (b)   The City Collector-Treasurer shall issue a ruling within a reasonable
time from date of the hearing.
   (c)   An appeal may be taken by the taxpayer to the circuit court of the
county, within 30 days after he or she shall have received notice from the City
Collector-Treasurer of his or her determination as provided hereinbefore, in
this article.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.13 FORMS AND REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   The City Collector-Treasurer is hereby invested with full power and
authority and it is hereby made his or her duty to prescribe forms for
applications, for business registration certificate, and certificates and
assessments and to make, issue and put in force all necessary and needful rules
and regulations for ascertaining, assessing and collecting the taxes imposed by
§
705.03 of this article and the enforcement under the provisions thereof. The
City Collector-Treasurer shall also charge an issuance fee of $1.
   (b)   Any employee of the City Collector-Treasurer so designated by the City
Collector-Treasurer, shall have all the lawful powers delegated to members of
the department of public safety to enforce the provisions of this article,
conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her duties as such, and such
bond shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney, and the same shall be
filed with the City Clerk and preserved in his or her office.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.14 DISPOSITION OF MONEY COLLECTED.
   All money collected under the provisions of §§
705.03 and
705.99 of this article shall be paid into the city treasury, by the City
Collector-Treasurer, and shall be added to and shall constitute a part of the
general fund of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.15 EXEMPTIONS FROM PURCHASE OF CERTAIN LICENSES.
   No provision in this section shall be construed to grant any person or
company the authority to make an election as to whether such person or company
shall purchase a license pursuant to the above mentioned provisions of the city
code of ordinances, but all persons or companies shall be required to purchase
a business franchise.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
§ 705.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person engaging in or prosecuting any business contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, whether without obtaining a business registration
certificate therefore before commencing the same, or by continuing the same
after the termination of the effective period of any such certificate may, in
addition to paying the business registration tax, be liable for a penalty of
$50 for each month or fraction thereof during which he or she has been in
default of the business registration tax. It shall be the duty of the City
Collector-Treasurer to collect the full amount of the business registration tax
and penalty imposed.
   (b)   Except as may herein be expressly provided, any person violating any
provisions under this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200, or
imprisoned in the county jail not more than one month, or both fined and
imprisoned and each day or part thereof that any violation shall continue shall
be deemed to constitute distinct and separate offense and be punishable
accordingly. Magistrates shall have concurrent jurisdiction with any other
court having jurisdiction for the trial of all misdemeanors arising under this
article.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1984)
ARTICLE 709: MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS AND ACTIVITIES
Section
   
709.01   Licenses required and license taxes imposed
   
709.02   Coin-operated merchandise, service, music, amusement, and the like
devices
   
709.03   Hawkers and peddlers
§ 709.01 LICENSES REQUIRED AND LICENSE TAXES IMPOSED.
   No person shall, without a currently valid city license, engage in or
prosecute within the city any of the businesses, activities, trades or
employments named in the following sections of this chapter. The license taxes
hereinafter specified are hereby levied on every person engaging in or
prosecuting, within this city, any such businesses, activities, trades or
employments.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
§ 709.02 COIN-OPERATED MERCHANDISE, SERVICE, MUSIC, AMUSEMENT, AND THE LIKE
DEVICES.
   All coin-operated devices, shall be the same fee of $12.50, no matter how
many are in establishment. The fee shall be paid by owner of said device.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
Note:
   If devices are owned by the owner of the establishment, this fee is not
required; just the $25 business license will be required.
§ 709.03 HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS.
   (a)   When used in this section, HAWKER and PEDDLER shall mean and include
all persons who engage or conduct, within the city, in traveling from place to
place, a temporary or transient business of selling goods, wares or merchandise
for delivery at the time of sale; and who, for the purpose of carrying on such
business may use, lease or occupy either in whole or in part, a shed, open
ground, streets, roads or highways, a room, building or other structure, or who
use, lease or occupy for such purposes, a room in any hotel, motel or lodging
house, for the exhibition and sale of goods, wares, and merchandise to sell,
for delivery at the same time, any such goods, wares or merchandise; or any
person who shall carry goods, wares or merchandise from place to place on foot
or with a vehicle, either in person or by agent or employee, and sell, for
delivery at the same time, any such goods, wares or merchandise to any
purchaser at wholesale or retail, and any person who shall solicit for the
purpose of rendering any service shall be deemed a hawker and peddler under
this section. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from the provisions
of this section by reason and association temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such temporary or transient
business in connection with or as part of the business of, or in the name of
any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. The annual license fee to act
as a hawker or peddler, if the persons licensed travels without a vehicle,
shall be $10; if he or she travels with a vehicle of not more than one-half ton
capacity, $15; if he or she travels with a vehicle of more than one-half ton
capacity, but not exceeding one ton capacity, $50; if he or she travels with a
vehicle of more than one ton capacity, but not exceeding two tons capacity,
$100; and if he or she travels with a vehicle of more than two-ton capacity,
$150, plus $100 for each additional ton or fraction thereof over two ton
capacity; and the person licensed shall pay at the same rate for each and every
vehicle so used. Such person shall carry his or her license in some conspicuous
place in his or her vehicle or about his or her pack.
   (b)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person who sells
any goods, wares or merchandise to be delivered in the future; or to any of the
following who offer immediate delivery of the goods, wares or merchandise to be
delivered in the future; or to any of the following who offer immediate
delivery of the goods, wares or merchandise being sold:
      (1)   Any person or persons engaged within this state in the business or
calling of agriculture, horticulture or grazing, who sells or sell individually
or collectively, one or more for the other or others, the products derived from
his or her business or calling aforesaid;
      (2)   Any retail or wholesale business concern, established and operating
continuously for one year or more within this city in the sale of any product
or products over regular routes who are licensed under other provisions of this
article;
      (3)   Any wholesaler or jobber selling soft drinks or nonintoxicating
beer for which he or she is duly licensed under other provisions of this or
another chapter of this code;
      (4)   Any person who sells petroleum products, ice, wood, meat, ice
cream, dairy products, bread, cakes, pies and other bakery products, butter and
eggs, manufactured, grown or produced by any such person and not purchased by
him or her for resale;
      (5)   Sales made by persons by commercial travelers, or selling agents in
the usual course of business, nor to bona fide sales of goods, wares or
merchandise by sample for future delivery; nor to any sale of goods, wares or
merchandise on the grounds of any agricultural association during the
continuance of any annual fair held by such association; nor to any sales by
organizations acting for charitable, religious or benevolent purposes; nor to
annual showings or street exhibits, which may include sales of their showings
or exhibits by members of antique associations; numismatic or philatelic
societies, art associations or societies when such showing or exhibit does not
continue for more than one week each calendar year; nor to judicial sales
directed by law, or under the orders of any court;
      (6)   Any agent or salesperson selling manufactured products produced by
his or her employer, and who sells the same to retail dealers for the purpose
of resale;
      (7)   Any firm, corporation, or individual having a stock of goods, or
merchandise, or manufacturing or processing plant or plants kept or operating
at a fixed status in the state, and declared for taxation in the county where
located, and using a vehicle or vehicles over a fixed route or routes for the
purpose of selling or distributing, at wholesale, their, his or her or its said
merchandise, stock of goods or plant products; and
      (8)   Any person exempt from license as provided by this section shall
obtain from the City Collector-Treasurer, a license receipt, without cost,
showing that he or she is so exempt, which shall be effective for the period as
provided for annual licenses in this article; but to obtain such license
receipt, he or she shall make an affidavit and produce such other evidence as
to the fact entitling him or her to such exemption as the City Collector-
Treasurer, in his or her discretion, may require, which shall be on a form to
be prescribed by the City Collector-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
ARTICLE 711: STORES
Section
   
711.01   Definitions
   
711.02   License required; where license obtainable; exemptions
   
711.03   Annual license tax
   
711.04   License tax for half year or less
   
711.05   Expiration and renewal of license
§ 711.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCLUDED. No coin-operated device or devices shall be construed to be a
store.
   GENERAL STORE. Any store or stores or any mercantile establishment or
establishments, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind are
purchased, ordered, sold or offered for sale either at retail or wholesale.
   PERSON. Any group or combination acting as a unit, individual, committee,
guardian, trustee, executor, administrator, partnership, copartnership, joint
adventure, association, trust, firm or corporation, either domestic or foreign,
which is controlled or directed by one management or association of ultimate
management.
   SPECIAL STORE. Any store or stores of any mercantile establishment or
establishments, in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind except
cigarettes, tobacco products and soft drinks are purchased, ordered, sold or
offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which contains no coin-
operated device, or devices, owned and operated by the store proprietor.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
§ 711.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; WHERE LICENSE OBTAINABLE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain
any general store or special store in the city without first having obtained a
license to do so from the office of the City Collector-Treasurer.
   (b)   The establishment, operation or maintenance of stores by the following
shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this article:
      (1)   The United States of America, the state and its political
subdivisions;
      (2)   Religious and charitable organizations; and
      (3)   Any person or persons engaged within the city in the business of
producing agricultural products who, individually or collectively sell in such
store only agricultural products which he or she have produced.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
§ 711.03 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX.
   (a)   General stores. Every person establishing, operating or maintaining
one or more general stores within the city under the same general management,
supervision or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $25 for each such
store.
   (b)   Special stores. Every person establishing, operating or maintaining
one or more special stores within the city under the same general management,
supervision or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $25 for each such
store.
§ 711.04 LICENSE TAX FOR HALF YEAR OR LESS.
   Each license issued prior to January 1 of any fiscal year shall be charged
for at the full rate and each license issued on or after January 1 shall be
charged for at one-half of the full rate, as specified in §
711.03 of this article.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
§ 711.05 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be so issued as to expire on June 30 of each year. On or
before July 1 of each year, every person having a license shall apply to the
City Collector-Treasurer for a renewal for the license year next ensuing,
unless such person has ceased to operate such store or does not propose to
continue operation of the store during the year next ensuing. Each application
for a renewal shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $0.50 for each license
requested and by the license tax as prescribed in §
711.03 of this article.
(Ord. passed 4-11-1977)
CHAPTER 3: TAXES AND SERVICE CHARGES
Article
   
721.   City Licenses
   
725.   Hotel-Motel Tax
   
730.   Fire Service Fee
   
733.   Public Utility Service Fee
   
741.   Alcoholic Beverages
ARTICLE 721: CITY LICENSES
Section
   
721.01   Generally
   
721.02   Stores
   
721.03   Business license fee
Cross references:
   License taxes generally, see W. Va. Code 8-13-4; 11-12-4
§ 721.01 GENERALLY.
   (a)   Conditions precedent to doing business. It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in or prosecute within the city any business, trade,
occupation, profession, calling, vocation, or activity for which the payment of
any city license tax or fee is required or for which a city license certificate
is required without having paid to the city such license tax or fee or without
holding a currently valid city license certificate so to do, as provided in
this article; and the fulfillment of all terms and conditions of such license
certificate and the provisions of this article relating thereto shall be
conditions precedent to engaging in or prosecuting within the city any such
business, trade, occupation, profession, calling, vocation, or activity.
   (b)   Separate license required. Except as may be provided otherwise in this
Code or other ordinance, any person who, at more than one fixed place of
business within the city, engages in or prosecutes any business, profession,
calling, vocation, trade, or activity for which a city license is required, or
who within the city engages in or prosecutes more than one type of business,
profession, calling, vocation, trade, or activity for which a city license is
required, shall obtain a separate license and pay the prescribed tax or fee
therefor for each such fixed place of business and for each such business,
profession, calling, vocation, trade, or activity.
   (c)   Application and issuance of licenses. The licenses provided for in
this article shall be issued in the form of a certificate by the City Treasurer
to any person making proper application therefor and tendering the license tax
and a filing fee of $0.50 for each license certificate requested. The City
Treasurer shall collect in full the proper taxes and fees and determine to his
or her satisfaction that all the conditions precedent to the granting of such
license have been fulfilled by the applicant before issuing a certificate of
license.
   (d)   Time for which licenses granted; minimum fee. Except as may be
otherwise expressly provided in this article, all licenses issued under the
provisions of this article shall be for a period of one year beginning on July
1 and ending June 30; provided, that no license for any purpose for any length
of time shall be issued for less than $2.
   (e)   Exhibition of licenses.
      (1)   Every person to whom a certificate of license shall be issued under
the provisions of this article shall keep such certificate posted in a
conspicuous position in the place where the privileges of such license are
exercised, except that licenses regarding a business or other activity not
conducted at an established place of business shall be carried on the person of
the licensee at all times while engaged in such business or activity, and
except as otherwise may be specifically provided for in this article.
      (2)   Such certificate of license shall be produced for inspection
whenever required by any member of the City Council, the Mayor, the City
Treasurer or the city police.
   (f)   Personal privilege. Every license issued under the provisions of this
article shall confer a personal privilege only to transact the business,
activity, trade, occupation, profession, calling, or vocation which may be the
subject of the license and shall not be exercised except by the person holding
the license and shall not be assignable.
   (g)   Effect of change in partners or name of firm. No changes in the name
of a firm, nor the taking in of one or more new partners, nor the withdrawal of
one or more members of the firm, so long as at least one member remains the
same, shall be considered as terminating the privileges of any license granted
to such partners or firm.
   (h)   Additional penalties. Any person engaging in or prosecuting any
business, activity, trade, occupation, profession, calling, or vocation
contrary to the provisions of this article, whether without obtaining a license
therefor before commencing the same, or by continuing the same after the
termination of the effective period of such license, shall, in addition to
paying the license tax, be liable to the following penalties. If the license
tax to which he or she is subject is an annual one, or for a period of one
month or more, 10% of such tax for each month or part thereof during which he
or she has been in default; if the license tax aforesaid is for any period less
than one month, 10% of such tax for each such tax period or part thereof during
which he or she has been in default; and it shall be the duty of the City
Treasurer to collect the full amount of the license and penalty therefor.
   (i)   Collection of back taxes. Any person engaging in or prosecuting any
business, activity, trade, occupation, profession, calling, or vocation
contrary to the provisions of this article, whether without obtaining a license
therefor before commencing the same, or by continuing the same after the
termination of the effective period of any such license, shall, in addition to
all other penalties provided for in this article, be liable to the payment of
all back taxes and penalties for a period not exceeding five years.
   (j)   Collection by action or suit. The City Treasurer may collect any
license tax and penalty unpaid under the provisions of this article by any
appropriate proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (k)   Criminal liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
article, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $250, or confined to jail not more than 30 days, or both, and each day or
part thereof that any violation shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a
distinct and separate offense and be punishable accordingly.
   (l)   Revocation or alteration of license. Any license issued under the
provisions of this article may be revoked, or any of the terms and conditions
of its issuance altered, by the City Council, upon written petition by any
interested person or by the Council upon its own motion, and if a showing is
made of a violation by the licensee of any of the terms or conditions of the
license or of any of the provisions of this article. Ten days’ written notice
of the proposed revocation and the privilege of being heard in person or by
counsel shall be given the licensee. In the event the license is revoked, any
fees paid on account thereof shall be forfeited to the city.
§ 721.02 STORES.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GENERAL STORE.
         A.   Include any store or stores or any mercantile establishment or
establishments in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind are purchased,
ordered, sold, or offered for sale either at retail or wholesale.
         B.   No coin-operated device or devices shall be construed to be a
STORE.
      SPECIAL STORE. Include any store or stores of any mercantile
establishment or establishments in which goods, wares, or merchandise of any
kind except cigarettes, tobacco products, and soft drinks are purchased,
ordered, sold, or offered for sale, either at retail or wholesale, and which
contains no coin-operated device or devices, owned and operated by the store
proprietor.
   (b)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
operate, or maintain any store in this city without first having obtained a
license so to do from the City Treasurer as hereinafter provided.
   (c)   Annual license tax.
      (1)   Special stores. Every person establishing, operating, or
maintaining one or more special stores within this city under the same general
management, supervision, or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $25
for the privilege of establishing, operating, or maintaining each such store.
      (2)   General stores. Every person establishing, operating, or
maintaining one or more general stores within this city under the same general
management, supervision, or ownership shall pay an annual license tax of $25
for the privilege of establishing, operating, or maintaining each such store.
   (d)   Exemptions. The establishment, operation, or maintenance of stores by
the following shall be exempt from the license tax imposed by this division:
The United States of America, the State of West Virginia and its political
subdivisions; religious and charitable organizations; and any person or persons
engaged within this state in the business of producing agricultural products
who, individually or collectively, sells in such store only agricultural
products which he, she, or they have produced.
   (e)   License tax for part year. Each license issued prior to January 1 of
any year shall be charged for at the full rate and each license issued on or
after January 1 shall be charged for at one-half of the full rate, as
prescribed in division (c) hereof.
   (f)   Application for license. Any person desiring to establish, operate, or
maintain a store in the city shall apply to the City Treasurer for a license so
to do. The application for a license shall be made in such form as the City
Treasurer may require. If the applicant desires to operate more than one such
store, he or she shall make a separate application for each such store. Each
application shall be accompanied by the license tax prescribed in division (c)
hereof.
   (g)   Granting and display of license. If the application is found to be
satisfactory, and if the filing fee and license tax, as prescribed herein,
shall have been paid, the City Treasurer shall issue to the applicant a license
for each store for which an application for license shall have been made. Each
licensee shall display the license so issued in a conspicuous place in the
store for which such license is issued.
   (h)   License not assignable or transferable. The license imposed by this
section shall not be assignable and shall not be transferable.
   (i)   Change of location. Licenses issued under the provisions of this
section may be altered so regarding permit removal of the store to another
location. In order to be effective at the new location, however, the
certificate of license must show upon its face an endorsement of the change by
the City Treasurer.
   (j)   Expiration of license. All licenses so issued shall expire on June 30
of each year.
   (k)   Penalties. Any person who establishes, operates, or maintains a store
without obtaining a license therefor or continues to operate the store after
the termination of a license therefor shall, in addition to paying the license
tax, be subject to a penalty of 10% of such license tax for each month or part
thereof during which he or she had been in default. This penalty shall be
assessed and collected in the same manner as the license tax.
   (l)   Collection of license taxes for past years. Any person establishing,
operating, or maintaining a store contrary to the provisions of this section,
whether without obtaining a license therefor before commencing the same, or by
continuing the same after the termination of the effective period of any such
license, shall, in addition to all other penalties provided for in this
section, be liable to the payment of all license taxes and penalties for a
period not exceeding five years.
   (m)   Collection by action or suit. The City Treasurer may collect any
license tax and penalty unpaid under the provisions of this section by civil
action or other appropriate proceeding in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (n)   Criminal liability for violations of this section. Any person who
violates any of the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not less than $50 nor more than $250 and each and every day that such
violation shall continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
§ 721.03 BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   (a)   License fee. No person without a city license shall engage in or
prosecute within the city any business, activity, trade, or employment without
a city license. The license fees hereinafter specified are hereby levied on
every person or entity engaging in or prosecuting within the city any such
business, activity, trade, or employment.
   (b)   Annual fee. The annual general license fee for all business, activity,
trade, or employment within the city shall be $25, unless hereinafter
specifically stated otherwise.
   (c)   Pawnbrokers.
      (1)   The annual license fee to engage in the business of pawnbroker
shall be $100.
      (2)   The term PAWNBROKER as used in division (c)(1) hereof shall include
any person engaged in the business of lending money on deposit or pledge of
personal property or other valuable thing, other than securities or printed
evidence of indebtedness, or in the business of purchasing personal property,
such as articles made of or containing gold, silver, platinum, or other
precious metals or jewels of any description for the purpose of reducing or
smelting them into any form different from their condition or construction when
purchased, or reselling or marketing of the product.
      (3)   Such business is hereby prohibited from purchasing items from
juveniles under the age of 18 years.
      (4)   All pawnbrokers licensed pursuant to division (c) hereof shall keep
a separate book open to inspection by a member of the Police Department or
other city officer in which shall be written in the English language at the
time of the pledge, purchase, or exchange of any article, a description
thereof, including any model number, serial number and other identification
numbers, if applicable, and the name, description, and residence of the pledge
or person from whom purchased and received which shall be ascertained by
requiring an identifier issued by a government agency with a picture of the
subject and one other corroborating means of identification and the day and
hour such transaction was made. Each entry shall be numbered consecutively
commencing with number one.
      (5)   When a permit holder (pawnbroker) purchases personal property, such
as articles made of or containing gold, silver, platinum, or other precious
metals or jewels of any description for the purpose of reducing or smelting
them into any form different from their condition or construction when
purchased or for the reselling or marketing of the product shall keep the
personal property in its original form for a period of 12 days before it may be
altered in any way.
      (6)   A tag shall be attached to such article in some visible and
convenient place with the number thereupon corresponding to the entry number of
such book.
      (7)   All pawnbrokers shall provide the Chief of Police with a copy or
summary of the records required to be kept as hereinabove described at such
times and in such form as shall be designated by the Chief of Police.
      (8)   Every person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 or more than $500 and
such fine shall not be suspended.
   (d)   Hawkers and peddlers.
      (1)   The annual license fee to act as hawker or peddler as those terms
are defined in this section shall be $10 if the person licensed travels without
a motor vehicle; $15 if he or she travels with a motor vehicle of not more than
one-half ton capacity; $50 if he or she travels with a motor vehicle of more
than one-half ton capacity, but not exceeding one ton capacity; $100 if he or
she travels with a motor vehicle of more than one ton capacity, but not
exceeding two ton capacity; and $150 if he or she travels with a motor vehicle
of more than two ton capacity, plus $100 for each additional ton or fraction
thereof over two-ton capacity. The person licensed shall pay at the same rate
for each and every motor vehicle so used.
      (2)   Any person exempt from the payment of a license fee under the laws
of the state shall likewise be exempt from the payment of a license to the city
hereunder, provided that any such person claiming to be exempt shall furnish
the City Treasurer a license receipt from the clerk of the county court of the
county of his or her residence showing that he or she is so exempt under the
laws of the state.
      (3)   Any person who shall carry goods, wares, or merchandise from place
to place, either in person or by agent or employee, and sell, for delivery at
the same time, any such goods, wares, or merchandise to any purchaser, at
wholesale or retail, and any person who shall solicit for the purpose of
rendering any service, shall be deemed a hawker or peddler under this section.
   (e)   Itinerant vendors.
      (1)   The annual license fee to carry on the business of itinerant vendor
of goods, wares, and merchandise, whether acting as principal or agent, shall
be $500.
      (2)   When used in this section, the term ITINERANT VENDOR shall mean and
include all persons who engage or conduct within this city, either in one
locality or in traveling from place to place, a temporary or transient business
of selling goods, wares, and merchandise; and who, for the purpose of carrying
on such business, use, lease, or occupy either in whole or in part, a room,
building, or other structure, or who use, lease, or occupy for such purposes a
room or rooms in any hotel or lodging house, for the exhibition and sale of
such goods, wares, and merchandise; and the person so engaged shall not be
relieved from the provisions of this section by reason of association
temporarily with any city or neighboring dealer, trader, merchant, or
auctioneer, or by conducting such temporary or transient business in connection
with or as part of the business of, or in the name of, any city or neighboring
dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to sale made to persons by commercial travelers, or selling agents in
the ususal course of business, nor to bona fide sales of goods, wares, or
merchandise by sample for future delivery; nor to hawkers or peddlers in the
streets, roads, or highways, from packs or vehicles, nor to persons selling
meat or the products of the farm, garden, or diary, nor to any sales of goods,
wares, or merchandise on the grounds of any agricultural association during the
continuance of any annual fair held by such association; nor to any sales by
societies acting for charitable, religious, or benevolent purposes; nor to
judicial sales directed by law, or under the orders of any court; nor to the
sales of the common necessities of life in any public market place.
ARTICLE 725: HOTEL-MOTEL TAX
Section
   
725.01   Imposition of tax
   
725.02   Collection of tax
   
725.03   Records and returns; late payment penalty; interest
   
725.04   Liability
   
725.05   Exceptions
   
725.06   Rules and regulations
   
725.07   Penalties
   
725.08   Dispositions of proceeds of tax
   
725.09   Justification of existence
   
725.10   Definitions
§ 725.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed a tax on the use and occupancy of a hotel room
within the boundaries of the city. The rate of such tax shall be 6% of the
consideration paid for such use and occupancy. The tax shall be paid by the
consumer or occupant of the hotel room and be collected by the hotel operator
as a part of the consideration paid for the occupancy of the hotel room.
§ 725.02 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (a)   The tax shall be collectible by the hotel operator, who shall account
for, and remit to the city, all taxes paid by the consumer. The hotel operator
shall separately state the tax on all bills, invoices, accounts, books of
account, and records regarding consideration paid for occupancy or use of a
hotel room.
   (b)   A hotel or hotel operator shall not represent to the public, in any
manner, directly or indirectly, that it will absorb all or any part of the tax
or that the tax is not to be considered an element in the price to be collected
from the consumer.
   (c)   A hotel operator doing business wholly or partly on a credit basis
shall require the consumer to pay the full amount of tax due upon the credit
sale at the time such sale is made or within 30 days thereafter.
   (d)   Notwithstanding that the total amount of such taxes collected by a
hotel operator may be in excess of the amount of which a consumer would be
liable by application of the levy of 6% for the occupancy of a hotel room or
rooms, the total amount of all taxes collected by any hotel operator shall be
remitted to the city.
§ 725.03 RECORDS AND RETURNS; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY; INTEREST.
   (a)   Each hotel operator shall keep complete and accurate records of
taxable sales and charges, together with a record of the tax collected thereon.
Such records and documents shall be kept and maintained for a period of three
years unless the hotel operator is notified by the city that they be kept for a
longer period.
   (b)   The tax imposed by this article shall be due and payable in monthly
installments on the fifteenth day of the month for all taxed collected from
consumers in the preceding calendar month. The remittance of such taxes shall
be accompanied by a return, in a form and containing such information as the
City Treasurer may, by rule or regulation, require.
   (c)   There shall be a late payment penalty in the amount of $25 imposed on
any hotel operator who fails to remit the tax imposed by this article by the
fifteenth day of the month subsequent to the month in which the tax was
collected.
   (d)   The tax imposed by this article, if not paid when due, shall bear
interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the due date until paid.
§ 725.04 LIABILITY.
   (a)   If any hotel operator fails to collect the tax imposed by the article
or shall fail to properly remit such tax to the city, he or she shall be
personally liable for such amount as he or she failed to collect or remit as
well as any penalties and/or interested imposed by this article.
   (b)   If the hotel operator is an association or corporation, the officers
thereof actually participating in the management or operation of the
association or corporation shall be personally liable, jointly and severally,
for any default on the part of the association or corporation to collect or
remit the tax as herein required, as well as for any penalties and/or interest
imposed by the this article.
§ 725.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The tax imposed by this article shall not be collected in the following
instances:
   (a)   Editor’s note: Former division (a) hereof was repealed by Ordinance
265.
   (b)   Hotel room occupancy billed directly to the federal government shall
be exempt from this tax; provided that rooms paid for by a federal government
employee for which reimbursement is made shall be subject to this tax; and
   (c)   Hotel room occupancy billed directly to the state or its political
subdivisions shall be exempt from the tax; provided that rooms paid for by an
employee of this state for which reimbursement is made shall be subject to this
tax.
§ 725.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Treasurer may promulgate rules, regulations, and administrative
procedures concerning the assessment, collection, and refund of the tax imposed
by this article.
§ 725.07 PENALTIES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To willfully refuse to pay or collect the tax;
      (2)   To willfully refuse to make the return required by this article;
      (3)   To willfully make any false or fraudulent return or false statement
in any return with the intent to defraud the city;
      (4)   To willfully evade the payment of the tax, or any part thereof;
      (5)   To willfully aid or abet another in an attempt to evade the payment
of the tax, or any part thereof; and
      (6)   For any officer, partner, or principal of any corporation or
association to make any false return, or any false statement in any return,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax.
   (b)   Any person found guilty of willfully violating the provisions of this
article shall be fined not more than $500.
§ 725.08 DISPOSITIONS OF PROCEEDS OF TAX.
   From the revenues derived from the tax imposed by this article, the City
Council shall appropriate such revenues in the following manner and for the
following purposes:
   (a)   At least 50% of the net revenue received by the city shall be
appropriated to the Tucker County Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc. for the
promotion of conventions and tourism; and
   (b)   The remaining portion of the net revenues received by the city shall
be appropriated for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   The planning, construction, reconstruction, establishment,
acquisition, improvement, renovation, extension, enlargement, equipment,
maintenance, repair, and operation of publicly owned convention facilities
including, but not limited to, arenas, auditoriums, civic centers, and
convention centers;
      (2)   The payment of principal or interest or both on revenue bonds
issued to finance such convention facilities;
      (3)   The promotion of conventions;
      (4)   The construction or maintenance of public parks, tourist
information centers, and recreation facilities (including land acquisition);
      (5)   The promotion of the arts;
      (6)   Historic sites; or
      (7)   Beautification projects.
§ 725.09 JUSTIFICATION OF EXISTENCE.
   (a)   Tucker County Visitors and Convention Bureau, Inc., a nonprofit
corporation established to effect the purposes of this article, shall continue
in existence.
   (b)   Determination by the Council as to justification of the corporation’s
continued existence shall be based upon the corporation’s:
      (1)   Adherence to and satisfaction of the purposes and objective of the
corporation as stated in Article IV of the corporation’s articles in
incorporation; and
      (2)   Effective use and collection of and accounting for all funds
related to the operation and existence of the corporation.
   (c)   If the Council determines that the corporation’s continued existence
is not justified, it shall withdraw from its participation in the corporation
and form its own municipal corporation and collect hotel taxes for its
operation.
§ 725.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context hereof requires otherwise, all terms used herein shall
have the same meanings as set forth in W. Va. Code Ch. 7, Art. 18 of 1931, as
last amended. The term HOTEL includes bed and breakfast, air bnb’s and short-
term rental units.
ARTICLE 730: FIRE SERVICE FEE
Section
   
730.01   Legislative purpose, maintenance
   
730.02   Definitions
   
730.03   Imposition and rate
   
730.04   Billing and collection of fees
   
730.05   Charge or fee debt due city
   
730.06   Charges are responsibility of property owner; owner’s responsibility
   
730.07   Protests
   
730.08   Fire Service Appeals Board
   
730.09   Restricted use of revenues; future rates and charges
Cross-references:
   Authority to levy, see W. Va. Code 8-13-13
§ 730.01 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE, MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Fire protection service shall be continued, maintained, and improved
by the city, in part, at the charge and expense of the owners of buildings and
structures of every kind within the corporate limits of the city, which is also
within the Fire Service District (First Due Area) of the City Volunteer Fire
Department as designated by the State Fire Commission and State Fire Marshal.
Owners are declared to be users and beneficiaries of fire services as
contemplated by W. Va. Code 8-13-13. Fire services shall be provided by the
Parsons Volunteer Fire Department as hereinafter defined within the geographic
area established by the State Fire Commission as the first due area of the City
Volunteer Fire Department.
   (b)   The charges and expenses with respect to each of such users as set out
in this article shall be based and imposed, in part, by the classification of
the structure(s).
§ 730.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the
meaning respectively designated unless it is clear from the context that a
different meaning is intended.
      INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE. All buildings that are derived from or used for
industry or the commercial manufacture of goods. The fee shall be effective
upon commencement of construction.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. A residential unit structure
having more than two family dwellings or units within such structure. Such
structure shall include, but not be limited to, apartment buildings,
condominiums, or boarding houses. Such structures shall exclude hotels, motels,
rest homes, tourist homes, hospital rooms, and the like. Residential rental
property shall be classified as commercial property for the purpose of fee
assessment. The fee shall be effective upon commencement of construction.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. All other buildings not included within
the definition of “residential unit structure”. Such structures shall include,
but not be limited to, all commercial establishments, schools, government
buildings, hotels, motels, rest homes, and the like. If structure has multiple
uses such as residential and commercial it will be classified as a NON-
RESIDENTIAL UNIT. The fee shall be effective upon commencement of construction.
      RESIDENTIAL UNIT STRUCTURE. Any structure or unit which is used or
intended by the nature of its construction to be used as a one- or two-family
dwelling by persons for living or sleeping quarters, but shall not include unit
structures intended primarily for transient lodging, including without
limitation, hotels, motels, rest homes, and hospital rooms. The fee shall be
effective upon commencement of construction.
§ 730.03 IMPOSITION AND RATE.
   There is hereby levied, imposed, and assessed upon owners of all
residential, commercial, industrial, and governmental buildings of every kind
and nature, as defined herein a Fire Service Fee. Beginning on December 15,
2015, the fee is as follows.
 
Fire Service Fees
Classification                          Rate
Industrial structure                    $50 per month
Multi-family residential unit structure $10 per month
Non-residential unit structure          $10 per month
Residential structure                   $5 per month
 
§ 730.04 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (a)   All fees and charges for fire protection service shall be billed and
collected by the city and shall not be pro-rated for less than 30 days. The
city shall be charged with the duty of mailing a statement to each owner to be
charged the fee as hereby imposed, but failure to mail any statement for
charges shall not be grounds for avoiding payment.
   (b)   Charges for the fire protection service may be billed on a monthly
basis by the city and all charges shall be billed in advance of the services
being rendered.
   (c)   To avoid the late payment penalty imposed by division (e) below,
payment for any fire protection service fee imposed by this article shall be
paid within 20 days of the date of the bill for services mailed.
   (d)   For the purpose of multi-family buildings and nonresidential unit
structures that are subject to a written lease agreement, the fire fee thereon
shall be considered a utility as may be defined in said lease agreement.
   (e)   Any charge for service remaining unpaid 20 days after the billing date
shall be deemed delinquent and a late payment penalty of 10% of the unpaid
charge for that billing period shall be assessed. In the event that any
delinquent charge remains unpaid for 12 months, an additional penalty equal to
interest at the rate of 10% per annum of the billing shall be assessed.
§ 730.05 CHARGE OR FEE DEBT DUE CITY.
   The fee or charges provided for by this article shall be a debt due the
city. The city may collect any such fee or charge and all accrued penalties by
action against the owner of property against whom the services charges have
been assessed by action before the Magistrate Court of the county or by
appropriate proceedings in the Circuit Court of the county.
§ 730.06 CHARGES ARE RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   Each and every property owner of one- and two-family residential unit
structures, multiple- family residential unit structures, commercial,
industrial, and governmental buildings shall be responsible for payment of the
fire service fee charges assessed, imposed, and levied under this article.
   (b)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners of all one- and
two-family residential unit structures, multiple-family residential unit
structures, commercial, industrial, and governmental buildings within the
corporate limits of the city, to notify the city of any change in ownership and
other items requested by the city within 30 days of such change.
   (c)   The city will utilize information supplied by the property owners for
purposes of billing this fire service fee. It shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the buildings to review these charges and to notify the city of
any changes within 60 days of the billing. Failure to notify the city of any
discrepancies will void the owner’s right for reduction of previous billings.
If the owner determines that the city is not billing at the correct rate, the
owner must notify the city within 60 days or the owner will be subject to a
penalty in the amount of the lesser of all fire fees for the duration of
owner’s ownership of the property from the enactment of this article, plus
penalties and interest at the highest rates allowed by law, or five years of
fire service fees, plus interest at the highest rate allowed by law.
   (d)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to any buildings owned
by the city.
   (e)   The fire service fee charge will be invoiced through the utility bill
issued by the city.
§ 730.07 PROTESTS.
   The owner of any such building above feeling aggrieved by a charge or fee
for fire protection service may protest the same by giving written notice to
the city setting forth his or her objections on or before 35 days after the
billing date. The city shall forward such protest to the Fire Service Appeals
Board, which shall set a time for the hearing within 30 days of filing such
protest. The Fire Service Appeals Board shall render a decision based on the
record made at the hearing within a reasonable time, giving notice in writing
of its decision to all parties concerned. The amount, if any, due the city
under such decisions shall be due and payable 30 days after service of the
decision. Any person aggrieved by such administrative decision may within 30
days from service of the decision file a petition duly verified with the
Circuit Court of the county, requesting review by certiorari; otherwise, such
decision becomes final and conclusive.
§ 730.08 FIRE SERVICE APPEALS BOARD.
   There is hereby established a Fire Service Appeals Board consisting of seven
members, one of whom shall be the Mayor or his or her designee, second shall be
the City Administrator or his or her designee, third shall be the Fire Chief or
his or her designee, the fourth shall be a Council Member appointed by City
Council, the fifth shall be the attorney appointed by City Council, the sixth
and seventh members of the Board shall be residents appointed by the City
Council. The Fire Service Appeals Board will meet with residents having any
objections, and shall interpret this article and make final decisions based
upon this article.
§ 730.09 RESTRICTED USE OF REVENUES; FUTURE RATES AND CHARGES.
   All revenues received from the collection of fire service fees provided in
this article shall be placed in a Fire Service Fee Fund. These funds shall be
used only to defray the cost of and the continuance, maintenance, and
improvement of fire protection services within the first due area of the
Parsons Volunteer Fire Department as designated the State Fire Commission and
the State Fire Marshal and no part of such revenues shall be used for any other
municipal purpose. Any future adjustment of the rates and charges imposed by
this article shall be determined by applying the same adjustments equally to
all rates and charges imposed by this article.
ARTICLE 733: PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE FEE
Section
   
733.01   Definitions
   
733.02   Type of tax imposed
   
733.03   Imposition and levying of tax; amount of tax
   
733.04   Collection; time of payment; accounting
   
733.05   Records; inspection thereof
   
733.06   Exemptions
   
733.07   Nonliability of utility; refunds
   
733.08   Enforcement provisions; penalties
Cross references:
   Public utilities tax, see W. Va. Code 8-13-5a
§ 733.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE. All services and tangible personal property
purchased within the city from a seller, as hereinafter in this section
defined, namely, telephone service; electric service; gas service, including
bottled or liquid gas, if the seller thereof is classified as a public utility
subject to the jurisdiction of the state’s Public Service Commission; water
service and sanitary sewer service; waste collection; taxi or limousine
service; if purchased, used, or consumed within the corporate limits of the
city.
   PURCHASER. Includes every person who purchases, uses, or consumes a public
utility service.
   SELLER. Includes every person, whether a public service corporation, a
municipality, or private corporation, classified as a public utility and
subject to the jurisdiction of the state’s Public Service Commission, who
sells, furnishes, or supplies a public utility service.
   USER. The owner or tenant of property used for commercial or industrial
purposes, and every combination thereof, of every kind or description.
§ 733.02 TYPE OF TAX IMPOSED.
   An excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using, or consuming within
the corporate limits of the city any public utility service and tangible
personal property supplied by any public utility subject to the jurisdiction of
the state’s Public Service Commission (whether such public utility be privately
or municipally owned or otherwise owned by any type of governmental entity) is
hereby imposed and levied as provided in the following sections of this
article.
§ 733.03 IMPOSITION AND LEVYING OF TAX; AMOUNT OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed and levied upon each and every purchaser of a public
utility service an excise tax upon the privilege of purchasing, using, or
consuming, within the corporate limits of the city, such public utility
service. Such tax shall be in the amount of 2% of the charge (exclusive of any
federal or state tax thereon imposed upon the purchaser) made by the seller
against the purchaser with respect to each public utility service, which tax in
every case shall be collected by the seller and paid by the purchaser upon the
amount of each periodic statement rendered such purchaser by the seller, and
shall be paid by the purchaser to the seller at the time the purchase price or
such charge shall become due and payable under the agreement between the
purchaser and the seller. The tax imposed and levied by this article is in
addition to all other taxes imposed and levied by this city. In the event the
amount of the charge for any single public utility service exceeds the sum of
$20,000 in any given calendar month, to any single purchaser, no tax shall be
imposed for such additional purchase, use, or consumption in excess of the
amount of $20,000. In the event more than one public utility shall furnish the
identical public utility service to the same purchaser, such purchaser shall be
entitled to group the same as a single public utility service in calculating
the amount of the charges in any calendar month for such public utility
service.
§ 733.04 COLLECTION; TIME OF PAYMENT; ACCOUNTING.
   It shall be the duty of every seller, in acting as the tax collecting medium
or agency for the city, to collect from each purchaser for the use of this city
the tax hereby imposed and levied at the time of collecting the purchase price
charged for its public utility service; and the amount of tax actually
collected during each calendar month shall be reported by each seller to the
City Treasurer and each seller shall remit the amount of tax shown by such
report to have been collected to the City Treasurer on or before the last day
of the second calendar month following the month in which collected, together
with the name and address of any purchaser who has failed or refused to pay the
tax so imposed and levied by this article. The required reports shall be in the
form prescribed by the City Treasurer.
§ 733.05 RECORDS; INSPECTION THEREOF.
   Each and every seller shall keep and maintain complete records showing all
purchases of public utility service within the corporate limits of the city,
which records shall show the charge made against each purchase, the dates such
public utility service was furnished, the date of payment therefor and the
amount of tax imposed hereunder, and such records shall be kept open for
inspection by the duly authorized agents of this city at reasonable times, and
the duly authorized agents of this city shall have the right, power, and
authority to make, at the expense of this city, such transcripts thereof during
such times as they may desire.
§ 733.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The tax hereby imposed and levied shall not apply to the following
transactions, which transactions are hereby exempted from such tax:
   (a)   Purchases of public utility service for resale;
   (b)   Purchases of public utility service by the United States of America,
the State of West Virginia, and the political subdivisions, municipalities,
boards, commissions, authorities, and public corporations thereof;
   (c)   Purchases of tangible personal property, such as appliances or the
like, as distinguished from the public service supplied;
   (d)   Charges for telephone services which are paid by the insertion of
coins into coin-operated telephones and specific charges or tolls for telephone
calls to points outside the corporate limits of this city; and
   (e)   Nonrecurring or one-time charges incidental to the furnishing of
public utility service.
§ 733.07 NONLIABILITY OF UTILITY; REFUNDS.
   (a)   There shall be no liability upon the seller for erroneously collecting
the tax hereby imposed and levied or for erroneously failing to bill for such
tax as a result of a good faith mistake on the part of the seller. When any
purchaser contends that such tax is not owed by such purchaser on the ground
that the public utility service was not purchased, used, or consumed within the
corporate limits of the city, the seller shall refer the question to the City
Treasurer, and such seller shall thereafter collect or refrain from collecting
such tax from such purchaser for such public utility service as instructed in
writing to do by the City Treasurer. Any and all claims for refunds of any such
tax shall be presented to this city and not to the seller.
   (b)   The City Treasurer shall have authority to promulgate and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations necessary for the administration and
enforcement of this article.
§ 733.08 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS; PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any amount of tax due and unpaid under this article shall be a debt
due this city. It shall be a personal obligation of the purchaser which shall
be enforceable as provided in W. Va. Code 8-13-15, or in any other manner now
or hereafter provided by law for compelling the payment of taxes due
municipalities.
   (b)   Any purchaser failing or refusing to pay the tax hereby imposed and
levied and any seller or purchaser violating any of the provisions hereof or
any lawful rule and regulation promulgated hereunder shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished as provided in §
101.99. Each failure or refusal to pay the tax for public utility service
purchased, used, or consumed during different periodic statement periods shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
ARTICLE 741: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
741.01   General
   
741.02   Private clubs
Cross-references:
   Liquor control, see GEN. OFF.
Art. 521
   Preventing illegal sale of alcoholic beverages, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(20)
   Tax on intoxicating liquor; private club fees, see W. Va. Code 8-13-7
   Tax on nonintoxicating beer, see W. Va. Code 11-16-17
§ 741.01 GENERAL.
   (a)   Definitions. Words and phrases defined in W. Va. Code 11-16-2, 60-1-5,
and 60-7-2 shall have the same meanings as therein defined wherever such words
and phrases are used in this chapter.
   (b)   Tax imposed on purchase price of intoxicating liquors sold at retail
store.
      (1)   Pursuant to W. Va. Code 8-13-7, as amended, there is hereby imposed
a tax of 5% of the retail purchase price of any and all intoxicating liquors
purchased from the Alcohol Beverage Control Commission or from any store or
outlet authorized by ABCC or from any person licensed to sell wine at retail to
the public under the provision of W. Va. Code Ch. 60-8, within the corporate
boundaries or within one mile of the corporate boundaries of the city. Such tax
shall be levied upon the purchaser of said intoxicating liquor or wine, and
shall be added to any collected with the retail purchase price of such
intoxicating liquor or wine. Such tax shall be received by the municipality
from the State Treasury pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the
Alcohol Beverage Control Commission; provided, however, that such tax shall not
be collected on intoxicating liquors, other than wine, sold by or purchased
from holders of a license issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60-7;
provided further, such tax shall be collected upon all sales of wine to holders
of a license issued under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60-7 from a wine
distributor licensed pursuant to the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60, Art. 3
et seq.
      (2)   A certified copy of the ordinance from which this section derives
has been provided to the State Alcohol Beverage Control Commissioner, as
required by W. Va. Code 6-13-7, which further provides that the city tax shall
be added to and collected with the purchase price.
   (c)   Specific acts forbidden.
      (1)   A person under the age of 21 years may not order, pay for, share
the cost of, or attempt to purchase any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquors from a licensee, or consume any non-intoxicating beer, wine,
or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee or possess any non- intoxicating
beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors purchased from a licensee. Any person under
the age of 21 years who violates any provisions of this division (c)(1) is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount
not to exceed $500 or imprisoned in the regional jail for a period not to
exceed 72 hours, or both fined and imprisoned, and, in addition to such fine
and imprisonment, may, for the first offense, be placed on probation for a
period not to exceed one year; provided, that nothing in this division (c)(1)
shall prohibit a person who is at least 21 years of age from purchasing or
possessing non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors when he or she is
acting upon the request of or under the direction and control of any member of
a state, federal, or local law enforcement agency, or the state’s Alcohol
Beverage Administration while the agency is conducting an investigation or
other activity regarding the enforcement of the alcohol beverage control
statutes and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years who, for the purpose of
purchasing non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors from a licensee,
misrepresents his or her age, or who for such purpose presents or offers any
written evidence of age which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or her
own, or who illegally attempts to purchase non-intoxicating beer, wine, or
alcoholic liquors from a licensee, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 or shall be
imprisoned in the regional jail for a period not to exceed 72 hours, or both
such fine and imprisonment, or, in lieu of such fine and imprisonment, may, for
the first offense, be placed on probation for a period not exceeding one year.
      (3)   Any person who knowingly buys for, gives to, or furnishes to anyone
under the age of 21, any non-intoxicating beer, wine, or alcoholic liquors
purchased from a licensee, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500, or imprisoned in the regional
jail not more than ten days, or both fined and imprisoned.
      (4)   A person shall not:
         A.   Manufacture or sell in this city without a license any alcoholic
liquor except as permitted by state law;
         B.   Aid or abet in the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor
without a license except as permitted by state law;
         C.   Sell without a license any alcoholic liquor other than permitted
by state law; sell without a license any alcoholic liquor other than provided
by W. Va. Code Ch. 60-6 and division (h) below;
         D.   Adulterate any alcoholic liquor by the addition of any drug,
methyl alcohol, crude, un-rectified, or impure form of ethyl alcohol, or other
foreign or deleterious substance or liquid;
         E.   Refill, with alcoholic liquor, any bottle or other container in
which alcoholic liquor has been sold at retail in this state;
         F.   Advertise any alcoholic liquor in this city except in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the Commission; or
         G.   Distribute, deal in, process, or use crowns, stamps, or seals
required under the authority of this chapter, except in accordance with the
rules and regulations prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (d)   Unlawful sale or possession by a licensee. A person licensed under the
provisions of this article shall not:
      (1)   Sell alcoholic liquors of a kind other than that which such license
or this article authorizes him or her to sell;
      (2)   Sell beer to which wine, spirits, or alcohol has been added;
      (3)   Sell wine to which other alcoholic spirits have been added,
otherwise than as required in the manufacture thereof under regulation of the
State Liquor Control Commission;
      (4)   Sell alcoholic liquors to a person who is:
         A.   Less than 21 years of age;
         B.   A habitual drunkard;
         C.   Intoxicated;
         D.   Addicted to the use of narcotic drugs; or
         E.   Mentally incompetent.
      (5)   Sell alcoholic liquors except as authorized by his or her license;
      (6)   Sell any alcoholic liquor when forbidden by the provisions of this
article; or
      (7)   Keep on the premises covered by his or her license alcoholic liquor
other than that which he or she is authorized to sell by such license or by
this article.
   (e)   Intoxication or drinking in public places. It shall be unlawful for
any person to:
      (1)   Appear on property owned by the city or in a public place in an
intoxicated condition;
      (2)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in a public place
or possess the same in any open container in or on any public sidewalk, street,
or lane within the corporate limits;
      (3)   Drink alcoholic liquor or non-intoxicating beer in a motor vehicle
on any street or in a public garage or parking place or place of business open
to the general public, except those places duly licensed for such purpose
pursuant to this chapter;
      (4)   Possess alcoholic liquor in the amount in excess of one gallon, in
containers not bearing stamps or seals of the state’s Liquor Control
Commission, without having first obtained written authority from that
Commission therefor; and
      (5)   Possess any alcoholic liquor which was manufactured or acquired in
violation of the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 60.
   (f)   False statement in application for license. It shall be unlawful for
any applicant for any license under this article to knowingly make any false
statement of any material fact in his or her application for such license.
   (g)   Sale of liquor by the bottle by retail liquor stores.
      (1)   As the state shall require a retail outlet to obtain a liquor
license from the state, the city shall also issue liquor licenses subsequent to
the retail outlet receiving a liquor license from the state. After the issuance
of a state liquor license, the applicant must then file an application with the
City Recorder.
      (2)   The annual retail license period shall be from July 1 to June 30 of
the following year. The annual retail license fee, if an applicant holds a
Class A retail license under state law, shall be the sum of $1,500 per outlet.
The annual retail license fee if an applicant holds a Class B license shall be
$500 per outlet. The annual retail license fee for the initial year of issuance
shall be prorated based on the number of days remaining between the date of
issuance and June 30.
      (3)   A retail license shall expire on June 30 each year and may be
renewed only upon the submission to the City Recorder.
      (4)   No person may sell liquor at any retail outlet if the retail
license applicable to such outlet has been suspended or revoked, or has
expired.
      (5)   All retail licenses issued or renewed under the provisions of this
section shall expire and be of no further force or effect as of July 1, 2000.
Licenses issued thereafter will be so issued in accordance with applicable law.
      (6)   Violations of the provisions of this article shall be punishable by
a fine of $500 and/or imprisonment for up to 30 days.
   (h)   Sale of alcohol on Sundays.
      (1)   ON-PREMISE LICENSEE shall be defined to mean any person who holds
one of the following Class A licenses issued by the state’s Alcohol Beverage
Control Administration to sell alcoholic beverages:
         A.   Private club (less than 1,000 members) - liquor, wine, and non-
intoxicating beer;
         B.   Private club (1,000 or more members) - liquor, wine, and non-
intoxicating beer;
         C.   Fraternal club (non-profit) - liquor, wine, and non-intoxicating
beer;
         D.   Fraternal club (non-profit) - non-intoxicating beer;
         E.   Tavern - non-intoxicating beer;
         F.   Private wine restaurant - wine only;
         G.   Private wine restaurant - wine and non-intoxicating beer only;
         H.   Private wine spa - wine only;
         I.   Private wine bed and breakfast - wine only;
         J.   Brew pub (resident brewer/importer license required);
         K.   Special events (fairs and festivals) - wine and non-intoxicating
beer;
         L.   Special events (fairs and festivals) - wine only;
         M.   Special events (fairs and festivals) - non-intoxicating beer
only; or
         N.   Growler.
      (2)   PERSON shall be defined to mean an individual, firm, corporation,
association, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, or
other entity, regardless of its form, structure, or nature.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the City
Code, the Code of West Virginia, or Code of State Rules of West Virginia, any
on-premise licensee shall be permitted to sell alcoholic beverages pursuant to
the terms of its license, but beginning at 10:00 a.m. on any Sunday.
§ 741.02 PRIVATE CLUBS.
   (a)   License required. No licensee authorized by the state to sell
alcoholic liquors as provided by W. Va. Code Ch. 60-7 and Ch. 60-8 shall do so
within the corporate limits of the city without first having obtained a city
license issued by the City Administrator/Treasurer as hereinafter provided in
this article.
   (b)   Application; information required; fee.
      (1)   Application for a license to operate a private club shall be made
on such forms as may be prescribed by the City Administrator/Treasurer and
shall include:
         A.   The name of the applicant;
         B.   If such applicant be an unincorporated association, the names and
addresses of the members of its governing board;
         C.   If such applicant be a corporation, the names and addresses of
its officers and directors;
         D.   The place at which such applicant will conduct its operations and
whether such place is owned or leased by the applicant;
         E.   The number of members of the applicant;
         F.   The name or names of any national organizations with which the
applicant is affiliated and the nature of such affiliation;
         G.   The size and nature of the dining and kitchen facilities operated
by applicant; and
         H.   Such other information as the City Administrator/Treasurer may
reasonably require which shall include, but not be limited to, the criminal
records, if any, of each member of applicant’s governing board and its officers
and directors who have been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral
turpitude.
      (2)   Such application shall be verified by each member of the governing
board of the applicant if an unincorporated association or, if the applicant be
a corporation, by each of its officers and all members of its board of
directors. Such application shall be accompanied by the license fee hereinafter
prescribed.
   (c)   Investigation; issuance or refusal of license.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the application referred to in division (b) hereof,
together with the accompanying license fee hereinafter set out, the City
Administrator/Treasurer and, at his or her request, his or her duly authorized
representatives may conduct such investigation as the City Administrator/
Treasurer may deem necessary to determine the accuracy of the matters contained
in such application. The Police Department and all duly employed members
thereof are hereby designated as authorized representatives of the City
Administrator/Treasurer and are hereby directed to make such investigation as
the City Administrator/Treasurer may direct to determine the accuracy of the
matters contained in any such application. A written report of every such
investigation shall be attached to the application which it concerns and shall
be maintained as a part of the permanent records of the city. The City
Administrator/Treasurer shall withhold the granting or refuse to grant such
license for a period not to exceed 30 days. If it shall appear that such
applicant is a bona-fide private club, of good reputation in the city and that
there is no false statement contained in such application, the City
Administrator/Treasurer shall issue a license authorizing the applicant to sell
alcoholic liquors within this city, and otherwise shall refuse to issue such
license.
      (2)   Upon refusal to issue such license, the City Administrator/
Treasurer shall promptly notify the applicant, in writing, of the reasons for
such refusal and such refusal shall be final unless a hearing is requested.
When such refusal becomes final, the City Administrator/Treasurer shall
forthwith refund to the applicant the fee accompanying his or her application
and shall promptly advise the Commissioner, in writing, of his or her reasons
for denying the application.
      (3)   Any license issued pursuant to an application received hereunder
shall authorize the licensee to sell alcoholic liquors at only the one location
specified in the license.
      (4)   Any license issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 next following
the date of issuance and may be renewed upon the same showing as required for
the issuance of the initial license, together with the payment of fees
hereinafter prescribed.
      (5)   A license issued under the provisions of this article shall not be
transferable with regard to either licensee or location.
      (6)   The City Administrator/Treasurer shall deliver to the licensee of
any license issued hereunder a copy of this article and shall advise the
licensee to fully acquaint himself or herself with the provisions thereof.
   (d)   Annual license fee; partial fee.
      (1)   The annual license fee for a license issued under the provisions of
this article to a fraternal or veterans organization or a nonprofit social club
shall be $375.
      (2)   The annual license fee for a license issued under the provisions of
this article to a private club other than a private club of the type specified
in division (d)(1) hereof shall be $500 if such private club has less than
1,000 members and $1,250 if such private club has 1,000 or more members.
      (3)   The fee for any such license issued following January 1 of any year
and to expire on June 30 of such year shall be one-half of the annual license
fee prescribed by divisions (d)(1) and (d)(2) hereof.
   (e)   Wine retailers and distributors.
      (1)   The annual license tax upon distributors and retailers of wine
within the city limits, and to such end, after the effective date of this
article, no person may engage in business in the capacity of distributor or
retailer of wine as provided by W. Va. Code Ch. 60-8 of 1931, as last amended,
within the corporate limits of the city, without first obtaining a license from
the city, nor shall a person continue to engage in any such activity after his
or her license has expired, been suspended, or revoked. No person may be
licensed in more than one of such capacities at the same time.
      (2)   The city shall collect an annual fee for license issued under this
section as follows:
         A.   Twenty-five hundred dollars per year for a distributor’s license;
and
         B.   One hundred fifty dollars per year for a retailer’s license.
      (3)   The license period shall begin on July 1 of each year commencing
with July 1 and ending on June 30 of the following year, and if the initial
license is granted for less than a year, the fee shall be computed in
proportion to the number of quarters remaining in the fiscal year, including
the quarter in which application is made.
      (4)   A retailer who has more than one place of retail business shall
obtain a license for each separate retail establishment. A retailer’s license
may be issued only to the proprietor or owner of a bona fide grocery store or
wine specialty shop.
      (5)   A copy of this article imposing the tax shall be certified by the
Mayor to the state’s Alcohol Beverage Commission and to the Tax Commissioner.
   (f)   Certain acts prohibited; penalties.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or agent, employee, or
member thereof, on such licensees’ premises to:
         A.   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors other than from the
original package or container;
         B.   Authorize or permit any disturbance of the peace; obscene, lewd,
immoral, or improper entertainment, conduct, or practice;
         C.   Sell, give away, or permit the sale of, gift to, or the
procurement of any alcoholic liquors, for any minor, mental incompetent, or
person who is physically incapacitated due to the consumption of alcoholic
liquor or the use of drugs;
         D.   Sell, give, or dispense alcoholic liquors in or on any licensed
premises or in any rooms directly connected therewith, between the hours of 3:
00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on any Sunday except as provided under §
741.02(h);
         E.   Permit the consumption by or serve to, on the licensed premises,
any alcoholic liquors covered by this article to any person under the age of 21
years;
         F.   With the intent to defraud, alter, change, or misrepresent the
quality, quantity, or brand name of any alcoholic liquor;
         G.   Sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor to any person who is
not a duly elected or approved dues paying member in good standing of the
private club or a guest of such member; or
         H.   Violate any reasonable rule or regulation of the State Alcohol
Beverage Control Commissioner.
      (2)   Any person who violates any of the foregoing provisions, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more
than $500, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 30
days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
   (g)   Revocation or suspension of license.
      (1)   The City Administrator/Treasurer should not have the authority to
act on their own without Council approval, shall on the sworn complaint of any
person, conduct an investigation or cause an investigation to be conducted by
his or her duly authorized representatives to determine if any provisions of
this article have been violated by any licensee. A written report of any such
investigation shall be attached to the application which it concerns and shall
be maintained as a part of the permanent records of the city. The City
Administrator/Treasurer shall revoke any licensee’s license if he or she finds
that such licensee has violated any provision of this article, or if he or she
finds the existence of any ground on which a license could have been refused,
if such licensee were then applying for a license. Upon final conviction of a
licensee, or any employee thereof acting within the scope of his or her
employment, of any violation of any ordinance of this city regarding the
regulation and control of alcoholic liquors, gambling, prostitution, or the
sale, possession, or distribution of narcotics or dangerous drugs, the City
Administrator/Treasurer shall forthwith revoke the licensee’s license. Such
revoked license shall not be reissued or re-instated for a period of one year
from the date of such revocation. The location used by the licensee whose
license shall have been revoked shall not be used or occupied by any other
licensee during said one-year period, and the City Administrator/Treasurer
shall not issue a new license to any applicant to use said premises during the
period of one year from the date of revocation.
      (2)   Whenever the City Administrator/Treasurer shall refuse to issue a
license, or shall revoke a license, he or she shall cause a notice, in writing,
stating the reasons for such action, to be served in person or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, on the licensee or applicant, and shall
immediately advise the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commissioner of such
action and the reasons therefor, in writing.
      (3)   Any applicant or licensee, as the case may be, adversely affected
by such action by the City Administrator/Treasurer shall have a right to a
hearing thereon before the City Council; provided, that demand in writing for
such hearing is served upon the City Administrator/Treasurer, within ten days
following the receipt by such applicant or licensee of said certified copy of
said notice. The service of such demand for a hearing upon the City
Administrator/Treasurer shall operate to suspend the execution of the action
with respect to which a hearing is being demanded.
      (4)   The City Administrator/Treasurer shall immediately notify City
Council that such demand for hearing has been served and the City Council shall
set a date for such hearing, the hearing to be held within 30 days after
receipt of such demand by the City Administrator/Treasurer, and shall cause the
person demanding the hearing to be notified thereof. At such hearing, the City
Council shall hear evidence and thereafter shall, by resolution carried by a
majority of the City Council, affirm, modify, or vacate the action with respect
to which such hearing was held, which resolution shall be final unless vacated
or modified upon judicial review thereof.
   (h)   License for the sale of non-intoxicating beer. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Code or other ordinance of this city to the contrary,
no licensee shall be prohibited from obtaining a license for the sale of non-
intoxicating beer under the provisions of W. Va. Code Ch. 11-16 because such
licensee sells alcoholic liquors, permits the consumption of alcoholic liquor
on his or her premises, or is the holder of a federal tax stamp permitting the
sale of such alcoholic liquor.
PART IX: STREETS, UTILITIES, AND PUBLIC SERVICE CODE
   Chapter
      
1.   STREET AND SIDEWALK AREA
      
3.   UTILITIES
      
5.   OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1: STREET AND SIDEWALK AREA
Article
   
905   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places
   
909   Excavations
   
911   Trees
ARTICLE 905: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
905.01   Encroachments prohibited; exceptions
   
905.02   Obstructions, defacing, and the like prohibited
   
905.03   Planting and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and other plants
   
905.04   Bridges and approaches thereto
   
905.05   Use of streets and sidewalks; parades, display of merchandise, and the
like
   
905.06   Repair and maintenance of sidewalks
   
905.07   Repair of sidewalks by Council
   
905.08   Removal of snow, sleet, and ice from sidewalks
   
905.09   Grade; alignment
    
905.10   Construction, repair, and the like, of sidewalks and private driveways
by individuals
   
905.11   Naming of streets and numbering of houses
   
905.12   Vacation procedures
Cross-references:
   Action for damages occasioned by defective streets and the like, see W. Va.
Code 17-10-17
   Connection to state road system, see W. Va. Code 17-4-26 et seq.
   General power to regulate, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(1)
   Special charges for street cleaning and the like, see W. Va. Code 8-13-13
   Street excavations, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(2)
   Street obstructions, see TRAF.
311.01
§ 905.01 ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No part of any building or structure of any kind nor any cellar or other
excavation shall encroach upon or within any public street, sidewalk, land,
easement, or right-of-way except by specific authority of the City Council as
contained in a franchise, ordinance, or resolution of the City Council duly
noted in its journal or minutes; and any building or structure or part thereof
and any cellar or other excavation which may exist at any time in violation of
this section may be declared by the City Council to constitute a nuisance and
subject to abatement as provided in Article 1111 ; provided, that nothing in
this section shall apply to any excavation made pursuant to any excavation
permit under the provisions of Article 909.
§ 905.02 OBSTRUCTIONS, DEFACING, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall deface any street, sidewalk, or public place by
painting, printing, or otherwise marking or to place or to cause or permit to
be placed upon any public street, sidewalk, or public place within the city or
in any ditch, drain, or waterway along or adjacent thereto any ashes, cinders,
earth, stone, lumber, wood, logs, machines, vehicles, conveyances, or other
implements not lawfully parked thereon, or any other object or substance which
obstructs or impedes travel thereon or the flow of water in the gutters or
drains, or neglect or refuse to remove or abate the nuisance occasioned by such
obstruction or defacing within 24 hours after such person has knowledge of such
existence of such nuisance, or within 24 hours of service of notice thereof in
writing from the Mayor or his or her agent.
   (b)    Upon conviction of any such offense specified in division (a) hereof,
the person convicted shall, within 24 hours after such conviction, remove or
abate the nuisance created contrary to the provisions of this section, and his
or her failure to do so shall constitute a second offense against the
provisions of this section. The continued failure or refusal of such convicted
person to remove or abate such nuisance as provided herein shall constitute a
separate, distinct, and additional offense for each successive 24-hour period
of such failure or refusal.
   (c)    Any nuisance which arises by reason of any violation of this section
may be abated in the manner provided for the abatement of nuisances in Article
1111.
§ 905.03 PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES, SHRUBS, AND OTHER PLANTS.
Editor’s note:
   See
Article 911.
§ 905.04 BRIDGES AND APPROACHES THERETO.
   No person shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed any public bridge or the
walk or driveway leading thereto, or to loiter upon or about the entrance
thereto, or in any way interfere with the use of the bridge or the passengers
thereon; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit an
officer acting in the discharge of his or her duties from so obstructing a
bridge or the entrances thereto.
§ 905.05 USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; PARADES, DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE, AND THE
LIKE.
   (a)    No person shall use the streets or sidewalks of the city for the sale
or display of goods or wares, or merchandise of any kind or character
whatsoever, except such persons as have been duly licensed, and have obtained a
permit from the City Council so to do.
   (b)    The Mayor and City Council are authorized where it is necessary to
preserve health to establish zones of quiet. Whenever authorized signs are
erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person operating a motor vehicle within
any such zone shall sound the horn or other warning device of such vehicle
except in an emergency.
   (c)    The Mayor and City Council may issue permits revocable at will to be
issued to any person to use the streets and sidewalks for the purposes stated
above, when and if in his or her discretion such use will not interfere with
traffic regulation or the health and safety of the public, and in issuing any
such permit may include therein such conditions, prohibitions, and restrictions
as he or she may deem necessary for the orderly flow of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic and for the health and safety of the public.
   (d)    No person shall use or operate a skateboard or other like play
vehicle upon the streets, sidewalks, or coast thereon with sleds. It shall be
unlawful for anyone to use or operate a skateboard, or other like play vehicle
upon any other city street, sidewalk, or public way in such a manner that the
same would be hazardous to the pedestrians, motorists, or the operator of the
play vehicle.
   (e)   No person shall violate or fail to comply with the terms, conditions,
prohibitions, or restrictions of any such permit.
   (f)   No person shall use or operate a skateboard or other like play vehicle
upon the streets, sidewalks, or public ways within the Historic District, or
coast thereon with sleds. It shall be unlawful for anyone to use or operate a
bicycle, skateboard, or other like play vehicle upon any other city street,
sidewalk, or public way in such a manner that the same would be hazardous to
the pedestrians, motorists, or the operator of the play vehicle.
   (g)    No person shall ride, drive, roll, or wheel any bicycle upon or along
any sidewalk or footwalk, except to cross said sidewalk or footwalk for access
to a street or roadway. Every person riding a bicycle upon a street or roadway
shall be subject to all of the duties and responsibilities set forth in
Article 373.
   (h)    Any person violating the provision of divisions (f) or (g) above
shall have the offending bicycle, skateboard, or other like play vehicle
confiscated by the Police Department until claimed by a parent or guardian, and
be subject to a fine of $25. Second or subsequent offenses shall be subject to
a fine of $50.
§ 905.06 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OCCUPANT. Includes:
         A.   A person who is in physical possession of a property; or
         B.   A person who has responsibility for, and control over, the
condition of a property, the activities conducted on that property, and the
persons allowed to enter that property.
      OWNER. Includes:
         A.   In the case of land, any person who is recorded on the tax
records as the owner of land; or
         B.   In the case of property other than land, any person who is in
lawful possession thereof.
      PERSON. Includes any individual, corporation, society, association,
partnership, or firm, and the successor or the heir, executor, administrators,
or other legal representatives of a person.
      SIDEWALK. The part of a highway especially adopted to the use of or
ordinarily used by pedestrians and includes that part of the highway between
the curb line (or the edge of the roadway where there is no curb line) and the
adjacent property line, whether or not paved or improved.
   (b)   Owner responsibility. Every occupant, owner, or person of every house,
shop, building, lot, parcel of land, or other property that adjoins or is
abutting to or on a sidewalk in the city shall be charged with the
responsibility to keep such sidewalk in a good state of repair and free from
defects and debris. Failure to maintain could result in the city undertaking
such repair or remedy and charging back to the property owner. On any claim
presented for bodily injury or property damage on the sidewalk, the adjoining
or abutting property owner shall be held liable in tort for such damages to
another. Alternatively, should the city be called upon to make such payment to
a third party, the city will look to the adjoining/abutting landowner for
contribution and indemnity.
§ 905.07 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS BY COUNCIL.
   The Council may proceed to repair any such sidewalks, or to construct any
sidewalks upon any street, after first giving the property owner or his or her
duly authorized agent, ample notice of its intention to do so.
§ 905.08 REMOVAL OF SNOW, SLEET, AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (a)   All owners, occupants, and persons in charge of real estate in the
city shall remove snow, ice, and sleet from sidewalks on which their property
borders.
   (b)   The snow, ice, and sleet shall be removed within five hours after snow
or sleet stops falling, except should the five-hour limit require the removal
after sundown, in which event the snow, ice, and sleet shall be removed by 9:00
a.m. or shortly thereafter on the following day.
   (c)   In removing snow, sleet, and ice from sidewalks as herein required, it
shall be unlawful for any person to case such snow, sleet, or ice into or upon
any street, gutter, or public way.
§ 905.09 GRADE; ALIGNMENT.
   (a)    When a street line, grade of centerline, or curb of any street or
sidewalk is established by the City Council or by a city officer duly
designated for such purpose, such grade and alignment shall be official, and no
person shall change such grade or alignment so fixed.
   (b)    The situation, range, heights, width, and pitch of the curbstones and
pavements shall be determined and established by the City Council or by a city
officer duly designated for such purpose, and shall be complied with.
§ 905.10 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND THE LIKE, OF SIDEWALKS AND PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS
BY INDIVIDUALS.
   Any person owning, occupying, or in charge of any property in the city who
is required or holds a city permit to construct, maintain, alter, or repair any
sidewalk on or adjacent to such property or to construct, maintain, alter, or
repair a private driveway extending from a street onto such property shall, in
the performance of such work comply with all applicable standards and
specifications of the city regarding such work.
§ 905.11 NAMING OF STREETS AND NUMBERING OF HOUSES.
   (a)    The Mayor and Council are to see that all streets, drives, lanes, and
the like within the corporate limits have been named and that appropriate
designation or sign has been erected. The Mayor and Council shall approve the
names of all new streets, drives, lanes, and the like and, if they deem
necessary and appropriate, may by resolution change the name of any existing
street, drive, lane, and the like.
   (b)    All houses and places of business shall be numbered by the owners
thereof, or by the persons residing therein, with numbers clearly legible from
the street to be assigned each of the places by a committee duly appointed by
the Council for the purpose of facilitating the delivery of mail and parcel
post to such places.
   (c)    The owners of homes and places of business hereafter erected shall
apply to the Council and shall receive from the Council the number assigned to
such location, and shall affix the numbers to such places.
   (d)   All houses, residences, and buildings fronting any public street or
alley in the city shall be numbered in accordance with Tucker County 9-1-
1 Addressing and Mapping and U.S. postal requirements.
   (e)   Residential building numbers shall be posted as follows:
      (1)   Numbers posted shall be a minimum of four inches high and two
inches wide;
      (2)   Numbers shall be easily discernible type (Arabic numerals - Block);
      (3)   The color of posted building numbers shall contrast with the
surrounding surface so as to be readily identifiable;
      (4)   Numbers assigned to any residential structure shall be located
either near a buildings main entrance, above the garage door, or on a surface
that is easily visible from the street of address;
      (5)   If a buildings front is greater than 50 feet from the assigned
thoroughfare, numbers shall be posted at the entrance road or driveway to the
building. In addition to the number being affixed to the building, numbers
shall meet minimum size requirements at all locations; and
      (6)   If a buildings front is not readily visible or accessible,
regardless of the distance from the assigned thoroughfare, numbers shall be
posted at the driveway to the building, in addition to being affixed to the
building. Numbers shall meet minimum size requirements at all locations.
   (f)   Commercial building numbers shall be posted as follows:
      (1)   Numbers posted shall be a minimum of four inches high and two
inches wide;
      (2)   Numbers shall be easily discernible type (Arabic numerals - Block);
      (3)   The color of posted building numbers shall contrast with the
surrounding surface during the day and be illuminated or reflective during the
night as to be readily identifiable;
      (4)   Numbers assigned to any commercial structure shall be located
either near a buildings main entrance, above the garage door, or on a surface
that is easily visible from the street of address;
      (5)   If a buildings front is greater than 50 feet from the assigned
thoroughfare, numbers shall be posted at the entrance road or driveway to the
building, in addition to the number being affixed to the building. Numbers
shall meet minimum size requirements at all locations; and
      (6)   If a buildings front is not readily visible or accessible,
regardless of the distance from the assigned thoroughfare, numbers shall be
posted at the driveway to the building, in addition to being affixed to the
building. Numbers shall meet minimum size requirements at all locations.
   (g)   The responsibility for the displaying of the assigned number for each
existing house, residence, and building within the city, as of the effective
date of this article, shall rest with the property owner, trustee, lessee,
agent, or occupant of each house, residence, or building.
   (h)   Alpha-numeric character combination building numbers are not permitted
in accordance with U.S. postal requirements and each structure shall display
numbers in a numeric format only (Ex. “76” not “Seventy-Six”)
   (i)   No person shall block, alter, or in any way disrupt public safety
vehicle access within the city.
   (j)   Any person, entity, or business that shall fail to comply with any
provisions of this article, or who shall number or attempt to number any
structure other than in conformity with this article, or who shall fail to
change his or her number, if wrong, within 60 days of the effective date of
this article and within 30 days after being notified in writing by the city,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subjected to a fine of not less
than $25 or more than $100.
   (k)   Any person found guilty of this offense and who fails to comply with
the requirements of this ordinance within 60 days of the date of conviction,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of not less than $250
or more than $500.
§ 905.12 VACATION PROCEDURES.
   (a)   Legislative intent. City Council finds and declares that within the
city there are one or more streets, alleys, and public rights-of-way that have
not, do not, or will not in the future serve any public purpose; that exist
only by means of appearance on plats or maps of sections of the city; that it
would be in the best interest of the city to abandon and vacate such streets,
alleys, and public rights-of-way, thereby absolving any actual or contingent
liability; and that would otherwise permit more appropriate land use within the
city thereby promoting orderly development of the city.
   (b)   Procedures for abandonment.
      (1)   Informal discussion of request. Persons wishing to vacate, abandon,
or annul a public right- of-way should contact the city business office for
informal discussion of proposed action and obtain a copy of the abandonment
application.
      (2)   Presentation of application to Alleys, Sidewalks, Streets, and
Signs Committee. After a person has completed the abandonment application, he
or she or she shall present the application to the city business office to be
submitted to the Committee, along with a petition requesting the abandonment of
a public right-of-way.
      (3)   Alleys, Sidewalks, Streets, and Signs Committee review. The
Committee shall schedule a meeting to review the application and petition
requesting the abandonment of a public right-of-way and inform the applicant of
the time, place, and date of public hearing on the abandonment request.
      (4)   Filing fee and public hearing requirements. The applicant shall
deposit a nonrefundable filing fee of $250 with the city business office 20
days prior to the public hearing date. The applicant shall send a copy of the
application along with a notice of the time, place, and date of the public
hearing to all abutting property owners and any additional property the Streets
Committee may feel need notice. Notice shall be sent by registered mail. All
abutting property owners must unanimously agree to such action and terms of
this policy, and sign a notarized application to proceed.
      (5)   Alleys, Sidewalks, Streets, and Signs Committee action. After
completion of public hearing requirements, the Committee shall submit copies of
the application to City Council along with the Committee’s recommendation.
      (6)   City Council action. The applicant shall file a copy of the
petition and an ordinance to abandon the right-of-way in the city business
office 14 days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of City Council. City
Council shall review the application, recommendation of the Alleys, Sidewalks,
Streets, and Signs Committee.
Cross-reference:
   Power to vacate streets, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(1)
ARTICLE 909: EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
909.01   Permits required
   
909.02   Application for permit
   
909.03   Prerequisite to granting of permit; cash deposit or bond
   
909.04   Manner of work; restoration of surface
   
909.05   Traffic and pedestrian control
   
909.06   Permit by the city for openings in or structures on city streets or
rights-of-way
   
909.07   Required safeguards; footbridges
   
909.08   Bridges over excavations in roadways
   
909.09   Safeguards regarding sidewalk excavations
   
909.10   Handling, conveyance, and disposition of dirt and the like
   
909.11   Public utilities
   
909.12   State permit
   
909.13   Non-liability of city
Cross-references:
   Power to regulate street excavations, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(2)
   Street obstructions, see TRAF.
311.01
§ 909.01 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall cut into, abut, or otherwise damage or excavate any road,
street, sidewalk, or public place within the city, nor shall any structure or
driveway which has been so placed, be changed or removed, except pursuant to a
permit(s) as provided in this article. No road, street, sidewalk, drainage
component, or public place shall be abutted, dug up, or excavated for placing
driveways, pipes, sewers, poles, or for other purposes, and no trees shall be
planted or removed or obstructions placed thereon without the written permit of
the city, and then only in accordance with regulations and specification of the
city.
§ 909.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person, contractor, or utility desiring to cut, open, or otherwise
excavate any street, sidewalk, drainage component, or public place, whether
paved or unpaved, in the city, for any purpose, shall apply to the Director of
Public Works for a permit to do so. city permits covered under this section
include abutment, street cut, and excavation on city rights-of-way or
properties. The application shall be accompanied with a fee of $0.50 per linear
foot for excavations involving utility street cuts and abutments. Permitting
forms as prescribed by the Director of Public Works shall contain such
pertinent information as may be required by him or her, including but not
limited to, the following: the purpose of the proposed excavation; the site at
which the work is to be done; the date work is to begin and the expected
duration of the work; and the name and address of the person for whose benefit
the proposed work is to be done and who shall be responsible for all required
safeguards, the diligent prosecution of the work, the restoration of the
surface, the payment of all expenses incurred and compliance with all
requirements of this article, and the application shall be signed by such
person or by someone authorized by the owner, utility company, or the
contractor employed to do the work.
§ 909.03 PREREQUISITE TO GRANTING OF PERMIT; CASH DEPOSIT OR BOND.
   (a)   No excavation permit shall be granted unless it appears to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works that the excavation is necessary
for the health, safety, or welfare of the person upon whose behalf the
excavation is to be made, and the connection of property to a public utility,
city street, or drainage components shall be deemed sufficient under this
division (a).
   (b)   No excavation, abutment, or street cut permit shall be granted until
the applicant has paid the full amount of $0.50 per linear foot, for utility
excavations, street cuts, and abutments. Major excavation projects will be
required to be bonded as deemed necessary by the Mayor, City Administrator, or
the Director of Public Works. The bond amount will be determined by the Mayor,
City Administrator, or the Director of Public Works sufficient to cover the
cost of safeguards, disposal of excavated dirt and the like, and restoration of
the surface of the place of excavation to as good condition as it was prior to
making the excavation. Each such bond shall be payable to the city, shall have
corporate surety, shall be approved by the City Attorney, and shall be
conditioned that the work be diligently and skillfully prosecuted (subject to
foreseeable circumstances beyond control of the person doing the work), that
all necessary safeguards be maintained, that all excavated materials not
required for refill be disposed of as provided in this article, that the
surface of the place of excavation and not less than ten feet in all directions
from the outer perimeter thereof be placed in as good condition as it was
immediately prior to the commencement of the work and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Mayor, City Administrator, or the Director of Public Works
that all requirements of this article be complied with, and that any defective
work which appears within five years from the day of acceptance of restoration
by the Mayor shall be subject to repair by the city at the expense of the
permit holder.
§ 909.04 MANNER OF WORK; RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   Any person making an excavation shall do the work in a careful, workmanlike
manner, and shall diligently prosecute such work to completion without undue
delay. Materials used and methods employed in filling, tamping, and closing
excavations and in restoring the surface shall comply with all requirements of
the city.
§ 909.05 TRAFFIC AND PEDESTRIAN CONTROL.
   Anyone working on city streets, sidewalks, or rights-of-way must submit to
the Director of Public Works for approval a traffic control or pedestrian
control plan. Plans must show traffic patterns, flaggers, and signage. A
pedestrian traffic plan must address alternate walking routes, signage,
flaggers, and alternate crosswalks. Projects that require disruption of normal
vehicular travel flows must advertise possible delays or road closure with the
local media prior to construction.
§ 909.06 PERMIT BY THE CITY FOR OPENINGS IN OR STRUCTURES ON CITY STREETS OR
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (a)   No opening shall be made in any city street or right-of-way, nor shall
any structure be placed therein or there over, nor shall any structure, which
has been so placed, be changed or removed, except in accordance with a permit
from the city. No street or right-of-way shall be dug up for laying or placing
pipes, sewers, poles, or wires, or for other purpose, and no trees shall be
planted or removed or obstructions placed thereon, without the written permit
of the city or its duly authorized agent, and only in accordance with the
regulations of the city. The work shall be done under the supervision and to
the satisfaction of the city; and the entire expense of replacing the street or
right-of-way in as good condition as before shall be paid by the persons to
whom the permit was given, or by whom the work was done.
   (b)   A violation of any provision of this section shall be a misdemeanor,
and the person or corporation violating the same shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense.
§ 909.07 REQUIRED SAFEGUARDS; FOOTBRIDGES.
   All excavation sites shall be provided with all necessary safety devices to
protect persons and animals from falling into ditches or pits. Such devices
shall include, but not exclusively, warning signs, lamps, and barricades; and,
where practicable, secure planking for pedestrians to cross upon, which shall
be well lighted the entire way between the period from sunset to sunrise.
§ 909.08 BRIDGES OVER EXCAVATIONS IN ROADWAYS.
   Between the hours of sunset and sunrise, upon bridges for maintaining
traffic over excavations, the roadway shall be indicated by a sufficient number
of green lights so regarding clearly identify the course of the roadway and the
edges thereof; and the edges of the bridge itself shall be indicated by red
lights.
§ 909.09 SAFEGUARDS REGARDING SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS.
   All persons causing any excavations to be made for sidewalks shall have the
place of excavation properly graded and protected, and shall properly barricade
such place for the protection of the public. Whenever necessary, they shall, at
their own expense, properly erect masonry or steel construction or a sufficient
retaining wall to properly support the adjoining earth. Such retaining wall
shall be properly coped or provided with an iron railing to guarantee safety to
the public.
§ 909.10 HANDLING, CONVEYANCE, AND DISPOSITION OF DIRT AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Each person engaged in excavating or having charge or control of
excavation, or who may be engaged in or may have charge or control of conveying
material from excavations, shall exercise reasonable care to prevent the
deposit, in any manner, upon the surface of a sidewalk or any paved street or
other public place, either by placing, spilling, dropping, or tracking from
wheels of vehicles or from the feet of animals, any earth, clay, mud, sand,
gravel, or other excavated material; and all such excavated materials spilled
or dropped upon any street, sidewalk, or other such place from any such vehicle
or tracked thereon from wheels of vehicles or the feet of animals shall be
removed without delay by the driver of the vehicle or animal involved.
   (b)   The excavations referred to in this section include those made in
private property as well as in public property.
§ 909.11 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prevent the City
Council from entering into agreements with public utility companies which may
exclude therefrom, or grant them deviations from, the provisions of this
article when, in the judgment of the Council, it is in the public interest so
to do and the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city will
be adequately safeguarded.
§ 909.12 STATE PERMIT.
   No permit shall be granted under this article to excavate within any street
or right-of-way which is a part of the state highway system except upon display
to the Mayor of a permit so to do issued by competent authority of the state.
§ 909.13 NON-LIABILITY OF CITY.
   No permit issued, inspection made, or approval given by the Mayor, or his or
her agents or employees, pursuant to this article shall be construed as
imposing any liability whatever upon the city for injury to any person or
damages to any property which may occur by reason of any wrongful or negligent
act or omission during the progress of any work under this article.
ARTICLE 911: TREES
Section
   
911.01   Purpose
   
911.02   Definitions
   
911.03   Establishment of a Tree Board
   
911.04   Duties of the Tree Warden
   
911.05   Permit required
   
911.06   Application data
   
911.07   Removal, replanting, and replacement
   
911.08   Interference with Tree Warden
   
911.09   Placing materials of public property
   
911.10   Abuse or mutilation of public trees
   
911.11   Emergencies
   
911.12   Public utility right-of-way maintenance
 
   
911.99   Penalty
§ 911.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote and protect the public health
and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting,
maintenance, preservation, and removal of trees and shrubs within the city.
§ 911.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural include the singular and words in the singular include the plural.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Parsons, West Virginia.
   PARK. Include all grounds owned by, or under control of, the City of
Parsons.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, or other entity of any kind.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person(s) owning designated property as shown by the
County Assessor’s Plat of Tucker County.   
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Include all grounds owned by, or under the control of, the
City of Parsons.
   PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS. All shade and ornamental trees and shrubs now or
hereafter growing on any street or any public right-of-way or on any other
public property.   
   REMOVE. The cutting down or damaging, whether by deliberate or negligent
act, or any act which causes the tree to die within three years.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of every public way or right-of-way when
any part hereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of right for
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and extending from property line
to property line.
   TREE or SHRUB. Include:
      (1)   Any self-supporting woody plant which has a well-defined stem with
a diameter of least two inches at four and one-half feet above the ground on
the uphill side of the tree;
      (2)   Any ornamental woody plant as designated by the Tree Warden; or
      (3)   Any small seedling or sapling planted or protected specifically to
become a large tree as described in divisions (1) or (2) above.
   TREE BOARD. An advisory board of the city which is charged to oversee the
tree ordinance. Members are nominated by the Mayor and approved and appointed
by City Council. The TREE BOARD shall consist of five members, three of whom
shall be Parsons residents. The remaining members may be Parsons residents or
may be non-Parsons residents who reside in Tucker County but who have skills,
knowledge, and/or expertise useful in watching over the trees within the city.
TREE BOARD member terms shall be six years long with the exception of
originating terms in which two members shall serve six years, two members four
years, and one member two years. All originating members of the BOARD are then
eligible to serve additional full six terms if reappointed. The BOARD shall
meet monthly or as requested but shall meet a minimum of four times per year.
   TREE WARDEN. A city employee appointed by the Mayor with approval of
Council, who shall administer the provisions of this article in consultation
with the Tree Board.
   URBAN FOREST. All trees located on city-owned or controlled property.
   URBAN TREE SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE. Regulations promulgated
by the Tree Board and adopted by the Parsons City Council to regulate or deal
with the Urban Forest. Such regulations shall conform with the Primary
Standards of the National Arborists Association.
§ 911.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF A TREE BOARD.
   (a)   There is hereby created a Tree Board an advisory board of the city
which is charged to oversee the tree ordinance. Members are nominated by the
Mayor and approved and appointed by City Council. The Tree Board shall consist
of five members, three of whom shall be Parsons residents. The remaining
members may be Parsons residents or may be non-Parsons residents who reside in
Tucker County but who have skills, knowledge, and or expertise useful in
watching over the trees within the city. Tree Board member terms shall be six
years long with the exception of originating terms in which two members shall
serve six years, two members four years, and one member two years. All
originating members of the Board are then eligible to serve additional full six
terms if reappointed. The Board shall meet monthly or as requested but shall
meet a minimum of four times per year.
   (b)   Any public utility company and any cable television company whose
right-of-way maintenance practices and activities may be affected by this
article and/or regulations promulgated thereunder may appoint an ex-officio
member to serve in an advisory capacity.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreation Commission may request others to serve on
the Tree Board and officers may be elected from the entire group.
      (2)   The Tree Board shall, in cooperation with the Tree Warden, prepare
and adopt the Urban Tree Specification and Standards of Practice and submit
such rules to the City Council for its approval, and may also recommend
modifications to such rules as it may from time to time deem necessary and
advisable.
§ 911.04 DUTIES OF THE TREE WARDEN.
   The Tree Warden shall:
   (a)   Assist in the administration and enforcement of this article;
   (b)   Recommend new or modified rules and regulations governing the
planting, cataloging, maintaining, removing, fertilizing, spraying, pruning,
and bracing of public trees, emergency procedures, stump removal, the use of
insecticides, fungicides, and herbicide and the sale/disposal of wood products
on the streets or any other pubic property;
   (c)   Oversee the planting, cataloguing, maintenance, and removal of trees
growing now or hereafter planted on any public property;
   (d)   Supervise or inspect all work done under a permit issued in accordance
with the terms of this article; and
   (e)   Provide an annual report to the Tree Board which will include a list
of the plantings and removals during the pervious 12 months.
§ 911.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Except as provided in this article, no person shall commence or
proceed with any operation involving a public tree without first obtaining a
public tree work permit from the city. Activities covered by this section
include, but are not limited to, planting, fertilizing, spraying, protecting,
pruning, removing, cutting above ground, cutting below ground, or otherwise
disturbing a public tree.
   (b)   Application for a public tree work permit shall be made in the form
prescribed by the city by:
      (1)   The abutting property owner, or such owner’s agent, if the work is
to be performed within a street on behalf of the abutting property owner; and
      (2)   Any agency of the city doing work involving public trees shall
cooperate with the Tree Warden prescribed by the article.
   (c)   Application for permits shall be made at the office of the Public
Works Administrative Assistant not less than ten days in advance of the time
the work is to be done.
   (d)   The Tree Warden shall cause the permit to be issued if the Warden
determines, based on his or her review of the application for the permit, that
the proposed work is consistent with the purpose of this article and complies
with the Urban Tree Specifications and Standards of Practice. Any permit
granted shall contain a definite date of expiration and the work shall be
complete in the time allowed on the permit, and in the manner as therein
described; provided that, said expiration date and time limit for completion
may be extended if said work is not completed therein due to weather conditions
or other unforeseen or uncontrollable circumstances. Any permit may be revoked
if its terms are violated. Notice of completion shall be given within 48 hours
to the Tree Warden for his or her inspection.
   (e)   Any decision by the Tree Warden to deny the issuance of a public tree
work permit may be appealed to the Tree Board by written notice to the Board,
who shall review such decision at its next scheduled meeting following receipt
of such written notice. Any decision by the Tree Board may be appealed to City
Council.
§ 911.06 APPLICATION DATA.
   (a)   Planting. The application required herein shall state the number and
kinds of trees to be planted; the location, grade, size, species, cultivar, or
variety of each tree, the method of planting, and such other information as is
reasonable necessary for a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.
   (b)   Maintenance. The application required herein shall state the number
and kinds of trees to be sprayed, fertilized, pruned, or otherwise protected
(except in the case of an application for a blanket permit); the kind of
treatment to be administered; the composition of the spray material to be
applied; and such other information as shall be reasonable necessary for a fair
determination of whether a permit should be issued. All prunings shall comply
with the Urban Tree Specifications and Standards of Practice.
§ 911.07 REMOVAL, REPLANTING, AND REPLACEMENT.
   (a)   Whenever it is necessary to remove a public tree or trees in
connection with the paving of a sidewalk, or the paving or widening of the
portion of a street or highway used for vehicular traffic, the city may replant
such trees or replace them, if feasible.
   (b)   Except as provided in a permit, no person or property owner shall
remove a public tree for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason,
without replacing the removed tree or trees. Such replacement shall meet the
standards of size, species, and placement as provided for in a permit issued by
the city. The person or property owner shall bear the cost of removal and
replacement of all public trees so removed and replaced.
   (c)   Whenever any trees shall be planted or transplanted on public property
in conflict with the provisions of this article, it shall be lawful for the
city to remove or cause removal of the same, and the exact cost thereof may be
assessed to and paid by the person responsible for the improper planting of
such tree.
§ 911.08 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE WARDEN.
   No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the city in
carrying out the execution or enforcement of this article; provided, that
nothing herein shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any
remedy, legal or equitable, in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
protection of property rights by the owner of any property within the
municipality.
§ 911.09 PLACING MATERIALS OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   From and after the date of adoption of this article by the City Council, no
person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any public property any
stone, brick, sand, concrete, or other materials which may impede the free
passage of water, air, and fertilizer to the roots of any tree growing therein,
except by written permit of the city.
§ 911.10 ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   Unless specifically authorized by the city, no person shall damage, cut,
carve, transplant, or remove any public tree; attach any rope, wire, nails,
advertising posters, or other contrivance to any public tree; allow any gaseous
liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to come in contact
with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when such fire or heat hereof
will injure any portion of said tree.
§ 911.11 EMERGENCIES.
   (a)   No permit shall be required to remove any public tree or part thereof
which by reason of damage by fire, windstorm, ice storm, or other calamity
poses a threat to the public health and safety of which obstructs any public
way, or has contributed to loss of utility service.
   (b)   The city may determine that a public tree is hazardous and order that
it be treated or removed immediately to protect the public health or safety. A
tree obstructing any public way shall be removed or treated immediately.
§ 911.12 PUBLIC UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE.
   (a)   Any other provision of this article notwithstanding, a public utility,
or any agent acting on behalf of a public utility to maintain the public
utility’s rights-of-way within the city, need not obtain a permit under this
chapter in order to maintain its rights-of-way within the city, but shall
instead comply with the provisions of this article.
   (b)   Any public utility, or any agent acting on behalf of a public utility
to maintain the public utility’s rights-of-way within the city, which plans to
maintain its rights-of-way within the city involving public trees shall, on an
annual basis, provide to the Tree Warden a general description of such plan or
plans. Such maintenance shall conform with the Primary Standards of the
National Arborists Association.
   (c)   For purposes of this article, the term PUBLIC UTILITY means any person
engaging in the provision of public services which are regulated by the state’s
Public Service Commission.
§ 911.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine in sum of not more than
$500. In addition, the city may seek restitution for any destroyed or damaged
tree.
   (b)   In addition to the remedies set forth in division (a) above, because
of the uniqueness of each public tree and the irreparable harm to the public
health and general welfare which may be caused by the destruction or damage to
a public tree, the city shall be entitled to enjoin any person or entity who
seeks to destroy or damage any public tree, or who is in the process of
destroying or damaging a public tree.
CHAPTER 3: UTILITIES
Article
   
935   Water Regulations
   
936   Water Tariff
   
941   Sewer Regulations
   
942   Sewer Tariff
ARTICLE 935: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
935.01   Rules and regulations
   
935.02   Right to restrict use of city water
   
935.03   Water rates, billings, and enforcement
   
935.04   Construction of new lines
   
935.05   Cross-connection control system
Cross-references:
   Discontinuance for nonpayment, see W. Va. Code 8-19-13
   Power to collect rates, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(32); Ch. 8-19
   Power to regulate, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(32)
   Review by Public Service Commission, see W. Va. Code 24-2-4(b)
§ 935.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Public Service Commission rules adopted. The rules and regulations for
the government of sewer utilities, as adopted by the Public Service Commission
of the state, and now in effect, and all amendments thereto and modifications
thereof hereafter made by said Commission.
   (b)   Multiple occupancy. On apartment buildings or other multiple occupancy
buildings, bills will be rendered based on each family or business unit located
therein paying not less than the minimum monthly charge established for a five-
eights inch meter, the minimum bill for the size of the meter installed or the
actual charge for water used, whichever is greater. Motels and hotels shall pay
according to the size of meter installed or the actual amount of water used.
   (c)   Trailer courts. House trailer courts shall be provided with a master
meter. No bill shall be rendered for less than the minimum bill established for
a five-eights inch meter, multiplied by the number of units situated on the
court site at the time the meter is read, the minimum bill for the size of
meter installed or the actual charge for water used which ever is greater.
House trailers (as used hereinabove) shall include both mobile and immobile
units. House trailers, either mobile or immobile, located on sites other than a
park or court, shall be billed, in the same manner as any other family or
business unit.
(Ord. 08A, passed 8-7-2008)
§ 935.02 RIGHT TO RESTRICT USE OF CITY WATER.
   (a)   The City Council reserves the right to limit and curtail the use of
water from the city water system when, in its discretion, it deems that such
limitation and curtailment is in the best interests of those persons who are
dependent upon water from the city water system for their water needs. The
Council may, by legal notice in newspapers of general circulation, supplemented
by media announcements and such individual mailings of notice or Council shall
elect, to prohibit the use of water from the city water system for all purposes
other than ordinary domestic and business use for consumption, sanitation, and
hygienic purposes.
   (b)   No person shall use water from the city water system for any purpose
prohibited by the City Council as provided in this section.
§ 935.03 WATER RATES, BILLINGS, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Rates. All persons using or consuming water taken from city mains
shall pay for such service in accordance with the tariff from time to time
fixed by the Council and filed with the state’s Public Service Commission.
   (b)   Discontinuance of service upon nonpayment of water bill. The city is
hereby authorized to discontinue the supply of water to any consumer who fails
to pay water bills as required; provided, that the city shall not discontinue
the water supply of any consumer for failure to pay bills without the City
Treasurer first having diligently tried to induce the consumer to pay such
bills and until after at least 24 hours’ written notice to the consumer.
   (c)   Refusal of service to property when bill unpaid for other property
under same ownership. Any person owning or occupying property in the city on
which water taken from city mains is used or consumed for which there are
unpaid water bills outstanding may, within the discretion of the Mayor or the
City Council, be refused future water service at any other location served by
city water until such bills are paid.
Cross-reference:
   See also the State Public Service Commission Rules
Editor’s note:
   The current schedule of rates can be found in
Article 936.
§ 935.04 CONSTRUCTION OF NEW LINES.
   (a)   Permit required; specific requirements. Any person desiring to
construct a water line beyond the then existing city lines, and connect it to
the city water system, shall first make application to the water system for its
approval of such construction and connection, and he or she shall not proceed
with any such construction or make any such connection to the city water system
until such approval has been obtained. This application shall be made in the
form of a letter outlining the proposed project and accompanied by detailed
plans and specifications which shall contain all information pertinent to the
design and construction of the proposed water system. Two copies of the plans
and specifications must be submitted. Both copies thereof, if approved by the
water system, shall be signed by the Mayor and one copy thereof shall be
returned to the applicant and the other copy thereof shall be filed in the
office of the City Administrator. In general, the design and construction of
all water lines shall comply with sound recognized engineering practices and
water line construction standards. The water system reserves the right to
invoke any requirements which are deemed necessary for the protection of the
property owners served and the satisfactory operation, and future maintenance,
of the city water system.
   (b)   Diameter, composition, and quality of pipe.
      (1)   All water lines shall have an inside diameter of at one-half inch.
Larger sizes may be required where possible future development indicates they
are needed. The water line pipe shall be such material as per Public Service
Commission regulations.
      (2)   No old or used water line pipe shall be used for water lines unless
passed upon and accepted by an authorized representative of the City Council.
   (c)   Inspections. The water system reserves the right to inspect all
materials and work at any time during the progress of any project. No water
line or fire hydrant excavations shall be back filled without the prior
inspection and approval of the water system or its authorized representative.
   (d)   Rights-of-way and easements.
      (1)   All water line extensions shall be made in recognized street or
alley rights-of-way or under rights-of-way or easements especially dedicated
for water line construction. Where water lines are constructed in rights-of-way
other than streets or alleys, the builder thereof shall furnish the water
system with legal rights-of-way agreements conveying these rights-of-way, to
the city, as hereinafter provided. The width of such rights-of-way shall be at
least five feet on either side of the centerline of the water main.
      (2)   After satisfactory completion of the construction of each water
line extension, if then within the city corporate limits, or upon the
subdivision or development in which such water line extension has been
constructed being taken into the city, the builder or owner, either or both as
may be required by the city, of such water extension shall, by appropriate
instrument, convey the ownership of the water line and the necessary rights-of-
way therefor, to the city, for future maintenance and operation. All such water
lines shall be subject to all rules and regulations applicable to the city
water system, including the obligation to pay the prevailing rates for water
used, from the time the water line extensions are placed in service.
§ 935.05 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL SYSTEM.
   (a)   Purpose.
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply served by the city from
the possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating, within its
customer’s internal distribution system, such contaminants or pollutants which
could backflow or back-siphon into the public water system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connection,
actual or potential, between its customer’s in-plant potable water system and
non-potable water systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control that will effectively prevent the contamination or pollution
of all potable water systems by cross-connection.
   (b)   Authority.
      (1)   By the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 being 42 U.S.C. §
300f et seq., and W. Va. Code Ch. 16, Art. 1, and Public Health Laws, WV Bureau
for Public Health Chapter 1, Article 5B, the water purveyor has the primary
responsibility for preventing water from unapproved sources, or any other
substances, from entering the public potable water system.
      (2)   The city’s water system rules and regulations are adopted.
   (c)   Responsibility. The city shall be responsible for the protection of
its public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution
due to the backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or pollutants through the
water service connection. If, in judgment of the city’s Water Department, an
approved backflow device is required at the water service connection to any
customer’s premises, the city, or its delegated agent, shall give notice in
writing to said customer to install an approved backflow device at each service
connection to his or her premises. The customer shall, within 90 days, install
such approved device, or devices, at his or her own expense, and failure or
refusal, or inability on the part of the customer to install said device or
devices within 90 days, shall constitute a ground for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been properly
installed.
   (d)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED. Accepted by the water purveyor as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this regulation, or as suitable for the
proposed purpose.
      AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public potable water supply.
      BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances,
under positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a potable water
supply from any source other than its intended source.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means designed to prevent backflow or
back-siphonage. Most commonly categorized as air gap, reduced pressure
principle device, double check valve assembly, pressure vacuum breaker,
atmospheric vacuum breaker, hose bib vacuum breaker, residential dual check,
double check with intermediate atmospheric vent, and barometric loop.
         A.   AIR GAP. A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow
between the free-flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any
other system. Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of
the supply side pipe diameter but never less than one inch.
         B.   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER. A device which prevents back-
siphonage by creating an atmospheric vent where there is either a negative
pressure or sub-atmospheric pressure in a water system.
         C.   BAROMETRIC LOOP. A fabricated piping arrangement rising at least
35 feet at its topmost point above the highest fixture it supplies. It is
utilized in water supply systems to protect against back-siphonage.
         D.   DOUBLE CHECK. An assembly of two independently operating spring
loaded check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the
check valves, and properly located test cocks for the testing of check valve
assembly.
         E.   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE WITH INTERMEDIATE ATMOSPHERIC VENT. A device
having two spring loaded check valves separated by an atmospheric vent chamber.
         F.   HOSE BIB VACUUM. A breaker device which is permanently attached
to a hose bib and which acts as an atmospheric vacuum breaker.
         G.   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. A device containing one or two
independently operated spring loaded check valves and an independently operated
spring loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check or
checks. The device includes tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the
check valves and properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valve
(s).
         H.   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly
consisting of two independently operating approved check valves with an
automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two check
valves, tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the check valves, plus
properly located test cocks for the testing of the check valves and the relief
valve.
         I.   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK. An assembly of two spring loaded,
independently operating check valves without tightly closing shut-off valves
and test cocks. Generally employed immediately downstream of the water meter to
act as a containment device.
      BACK PRESSURE. A condition in which the owner’s system pressure is
greater than the supplier’s system pressure.
      BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or
substances into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any
source other than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of
pressure in the potable water supply system.
      CONTAINMENT. A substance that will impair the quality of the water to a
degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public leading to
poisoning or the spread of disease.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection between the public
water supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
      FIXTURE ISOLATION. A method of backflow prevention which requires a
backflow prevention device at the water service entrance.
      OWNER. Any person who has legal title to, or license to operate or reside
in, a property upon which a cross-connection inspection is to be made or upon
which a cross-connection is present.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, company, public or private
corporation, political subdivision or agency of the State Department, agency or
instrumentality or the United States, or any other legal entity.
      POLLUTANT. A foreign substance which, if permitted to get into the public
water system, will degrade its quality so as to constitute a moderate hazard,
or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not
create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely affect
such water for domestic use.
      WATER PURVEYOR. The Municipal Water Department, Water Board, Public
Service District, or other administrative authority invested with the authority
and responsibility for the implementation of a cross-connection control program
and for the enforcement of the provisions of this article.
      WATER SERVICE ENTRANCE. The point in the owner’s water system beyond the
sanitary control of the water purveyor, generally considered being the outlet
end of the water meter and always before any unprotected branch.
      WEST VIRGINIA BUREAU FOR PUBLIC HEALTH (WVBPH). The State of West
Virginia Bureau for Public Health.
   (e)   Administration.
      (1)   The water purveyor will operate a cross-connection control program,
to include the keeping of necessary records, which fulfills the requirements of
the WVBPH Cross-Connections and Backflow Prevention Regulations.
      (2)   The owner shall allow his or her property to be inspected for
possible cross-connections and shall follow the provisions of the water
purveyor’s program and the WVBPH Regulations if a cross-connection is
permitted.
      (3)   If the water purveyor requires that the public supply be protected
by containment, the owner shall be responsible for water quality beyond the
outlet end of the containment device and should utilize fixture outlet
protection for that purpose. He or she may utilize local public health
officials, or personnel from the water purveyor, or their designated
representatives, to assist him or her in the survey of his or her facilities
and to assist him or her in the selection of proper fixture outlet devices, and
the proper installation of these devices.
   (f)   Requirements.
      (1)   Water purveyor.
         A.   On new installations, the water purveyor will provide on-site
evaluation and/or inspection of plans in order to determine the type of
backflow preventer, if any, that will be required and will perform inspection
and testing.
         B.   For premises existing prior to the start of this program, the
water purveyor will perform evaluations and inspections of plans and/or
premises and inform the owner by letter of any correction action deemed
necessary, the method of achieving the correction, and the time allowed for the
correction to be made. Ordinarily, 90 days will be allowed; however, this time
period may be shortened depending upon the degree of hazard involved and the
history of the device(s) in question.
         C.   The water purveyor will not allow any cross-connection to remain
unless it is protected by an approved backflow prevention, which will be
regularly tested to ensure satisfactory operation.
         D.   The water purveyor shall inform the owner by letter, of any
failure to comply, by the time of the first re-inspection. The purveyor will
allow an additional 15 days for the correction. In the event the owner fails to
comply with the necessary correction by the time of the second re-inspection,
the water purveyor will inform the owner by letter that the water service to
the owner’s premises will be terminated within a period not to exceed five
days. In the event the owner informs the water purveyor of extenuating
circumstances as to why the correction has not been made, a time extension may
be granted by the water purveyor, but in no case will exceed an additional 30
days.
         E.   If the water purveyor determines at any time that a serious
threat to the public health exists, the water service will be terminated
immediately.
         F.   The purveyor will begin initial premises inspections to determine
the nature of existing or potential hazards. An initial focus will be on high
hazard industries and commercial premises.
      (2)   Owner.
         A.   The owner shall be responsible for the elimination or protection
of all cross-connections on his or her premises.
         B.   The owner, after having been informed by a letter from the water
purveyor, shall at his or her expense, install, maintain, and test, or have
tested, any and all backflow preventers on his or her premises.
         C.   The owner shall correct any malfunction of the backflow preventer
which is revealed by periodic testing.
         D.   The owner shall inform the purveyor of any proposed or modified
cross-connections and also any existing cross-connections of which the owner is
aware, but have not been found by the water purveyor.
         E.   The owner shall not install a bypass around any backflow
preventer unless there is a backflow preventer of the same type on the bypass.
Owners who cannot shut down operation for testing of the device(s) must supply
additional devices necessary to allow testing to take place.
         F.   The owner shall install backflow preventers in a manner approved
by the water purveyor or the WVBPH.
         G.   The owner shall install only backflow preventers approved by the
water purveyor or WVBPH.
         H.   Any owner having a private well or other private water source
must have the approval of the water purveyor and the WVBPH if the well or
source is cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system. Permission to cross-
connect may be denied. The owner may be required to install a backflow
preventer at the service entrance if a private water source is maintained, even
if it is not cross-connected to the water purveyor’s system.
         I.   In the event the owner installs plumbing to provide potable water
for domestic purposes which is on the water purveyor’s side of the backflow
preventer, such plumbing must have its own backflow preventer installed.
         J.   The owner shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
permits, annual or semi-annual device testing, retesting in the case that the
device fails to operate correctly, and second re-inspection for non-compliance
with the water purveyor or WVBPH requirements.
   (g)   Degree of hazard. The water purveyor recognizes the threat to the
public water system arising from cross-connections. All threats will be
classified by degree of hazard and will require the installation of approved
backflow prevention devices.
   (h)   Existing in-use backflow prevention devices. Any existing backflow
preventer shall be allowed by the water purveyor to continue in service unless
the degree of hazard is such as to supersede the effectiveness of the present
backflow preventer, or result in an unreasonable risk to the public health.
Where the degree of hazard has increased, as in the case of a residential
installation converting to a business establishment, any existing backflow
preventer must be upgraded to a reduced pressure principle device, or a reduced
pressure principle device must be installed in the event that no backflow
device is present.
   (i)   Periodic testing.
      (1)   Backflow prevention devices shall be tested and inspected at least
annually.
      (2)   Periodic testing shall be performed by a WVBPH certified tester.
This testing will be done at the owner’s expense.
      (3)   Any backflow preventer which fails during a periodic test will be
repaired or replaced. When repairs are necessary, upon completion of the repair
the device will be retested at owner’s expense to ensure correct operation.
High hazard situations will not be allowed to continue unprotected if the
backflow preventer fails the test and cannot be repaired immediately. In other
situations, a compliance date of not more than 30 days after the test date will
be established. The owner is responsible for spare parts, repair tools, or a
replacement device. Parallel installation of two devices is an effective means
of the owner ensuring that there is uninterrupted water service during testing
or repair of devices and is strongly recommended when the owner desires such
continuity.
      (4)   Backflow prevention devices will be tested more frequently than
specified in division (i)(1) hereof, in cases where there is a history of test
failures and the water purveyor feels that due to the degree of hazard
involved, additional testing is warranted. Cost of the additional tests will be
borne by the owner.
   (j)   Records. The water purveyor will initiate and maintain the following:
      (1)   Master files on customer cross-connections; and
      (2)   Master files on customer cross-connection tests and/or inspections.
Copies of lists and summaries supplied to the WVBPH upon request, the water
purveyor will submit records of inspection, surveys, tests, or corrective
actions to the West Virginia Bureau for Public Health.
ARTICLE 936: WATER TARIFF
Section
   
936.01   Water rates schedules
§ 936.01 WATER RATES SCHEDULES.
   (a)   Schedule 1 (effective 45 days from passage).
      (1)   Applicability. Applicable to all residential, commercial and
industrial users in the entire area served.
      (2)   Availability of service. Available for water service.
      (3)   Rates.
 
Gallons Used Per Month Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000            $12.40
Next 3,000             $10.78
Next 5,000             $9.54
Next 10,000            $7.53
Next 30,000            $5.84
Next 50,000            $4.09
 
      (4)   Minimum charge.
 
Meter Size Amount
5/8"       $24.80
1"         $45
2"         $145
 
      (5)   Security deposit. An initial security deposit for new service will
be required equal to one-twelfth of the annual estimated charge for residential
service (based on 4,000 gallons or $35.70) or one-sixth of the annual estimated
charge for all other service.
      (6)   Delayed payment penalty. A 10% penalty shall be added to all
charges not paid within 20 days from the date of the billing. This delayed
payment penalty is not interest and is to only be collected once for each bill
where it is applicable.
      (7)   Connection charge. Charge of $300 or actual cost of installation,
including materials and labor, whichever is greater.
      (8)   Reconnection charge. Charge of $25.
      (9)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
      (10)   Leak adjustment. Charge of $4 per 1,000 gallons is to be used when
a bill reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed to eligible leakage
on the customer’s side of the meter. This rate shall be applied to all such
consumption above the customer’s historical average usage.
   (b)   Schedule 2 (effective upon substantial completion of water improvement
project).
      (1)   Applicability. Applicable to all residential, commercial and
industrial users in the entire area served.
      (2)   Availability of service. Available for water service.
      (3)   Rates.
 
Gallons Used Per Month Per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000            $13.40
Next 3,000             $11.65
Next 5,000             $10.31
Next 10,000            $8.14
Next 30,000            $6.31
Next 50,000            $4.42
 
      (4)   Minimum charge.
 
Meter Size Amount
5/8"       $25.50
1"         $50
2"         $150
 
      (5)   Security deposit. An initial security deposit for new service will
be required equal to one-twelfth of the annual estimated charge for residential
service (based on 4,000 gallons or $50.10) or one-sixth of the annual estimated
charge for all other service.
      (6)   Delayed payment penalty. A 10% penalty shall be added to all
charges not paid within 20 days from the date of the billing. This delayed
payment penalty is not interest and is to only be collected once for each bill
where it is applicable.
      (7)   Connection charge. Charge of $300 or actual cost of installation,
including materials and labor, whichever is greater.
      (8)   Reconnection charge. Charge of $25.
      (9)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds.
      (10)   Leak adjustment. Charge of $4 per 1,000 gallons is to be used when
a bill reflects unusual consumption which can be attributed to eligible leakage
on the customer’s side of the meter. This rate shall be applied to all such
consumption above the customer’s historical average usage.
(Ord. 08A, passed 8-7-2008)
ARTICLE 941: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
941.01   Certain fluids prohibited
   
941.02   Right to inspect private premises
   
941.03   Required toilet facilities and sewer connections
   
941.04   Illegal use of sewer systems
Cross-references:
   Authority to establish and maintain a sewage system, see W. Va. Code Ch. 16-
13A
   Deposit limitations, see W. Va. Code 24-3-8
   Power to collect charges, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(32), 16-13-16
   Power to regulate utility systems, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(32)
   Review by Public Service Commission, see W. Va. Code 24-2-4(b)
   Sewer connections, see W. Va. Code 8-18-22
§ 941.01 CERTAIN FLUIDS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling
water, or unpolluted industrial or commercial process waters to the sanitary
sewer system serving this city.
      (2)   A non-compliance surcharge and actual costs incurred to resolve the
issue will be imposed on any customer depositing and/or disposing of materials
such as grease, oil, hazardous materials or any component into the sewer
system, that may contaminate, impede or cause it to be disabled.
   (b)   The owner of each house, building, or premises used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or any other purpose, situated within the
city or utilizing any portion of the sanitary sewer system, is hereby required,
at his or her own expense, to eliminate from such sanitary sewer system all
storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial or commercial process waters entering
the sanitary sewer system from his or her property, within 120 days after date
of notice by certified mail from the city to do so.
§ 941.02 RIGHT TO INSPECT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The System Manager or his or her designee and other officers who may be
designated from time to time by the City Council may, in its discretion, enter
upon private property which is served by the sanitary system of the city and,
at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice to such property owners that
such entry is to be made, and in a reasonable manner, physically inspect such
property and conduct tests, including, but not limited to, smoke and dye tests
for the purpose of enforcing and carrying out the prohibitions and requirements
specified in this article.
§ 941.03 REQUIRED TOILET FACILITIES AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   Every building or other structure used as a dwelling or within which
persons are employed or congregate shall be equipped with restroom or toilet
facilities. Every such structure situated within 200 feet of a public sanitary
sewer and water main shall be connected with the public sewer and all sewage
from such structure shall empty into the sewer. It shall be unlawful for any
property owner to construct or to maintain a building or other structure in
which restrooms or toilet facilities are required as herein set forth without
such restrooms or toilet facilities and it shall also be unlawful for any such
property owner to maintain a building in which restrooms or toilets are
available without connecting the sewers from such building to the public sewer
as herein required.
   (b)   Within 90 days after a public sanitary sewer and water main are
constructed to a point within 200 feet of any such building or structure, the
owner thereof shall cause it to be connected to the public sanitary sewer and
his or her failure so to do shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (c)   No person shall construct, use, or maintain a private sanitary sewer
disposal system within this city without first securing a permit from the
System Manager or his or her designee for the construction, use, or maintenance
thereof. The System Manager shall not grant such permit unless the property to
be served is situated more than 200 feet from the nearest public sanitary sewer
and water main and unless the private sanitary sewer disposal system has been
approved by the proper official of the County Department of Health.
   (d)   No property owner shall permit the escape of sewage from his or her
property onto adjoining public or private property. Every such property owner
shall be responsible for maintaining the sewer line or lines running from his
or her property to the public sanitary sewer and shall promptly cause any such
line or lines to be replaced or repaired, should the same be broken or leaking.
   (e)   No person shall empty or to cause to be emptied or to permit to flow
upon the surface of the ground any sewage or other fluids or liquids containing
human excrement or any other household slops or other putrescible fluids or
liquids.
   (f)   No property owner shall maintain the restroom or toilet facilities
within the building or structure owned by him or her in good working order and,
in the event the restroom or toilet facilities become damaged, obstructed, or
useless, to immediately repair them.
§ 941.04 ILLEGAL USE OF SEWER SYSTEMS.
   It is illegal to utilize the sewer systems without an active city water
supply. This action will be considered a theft of a utility. A minimum sewer
bill will be billed each month to any/all customers in violation.
ARTICLE 942: SEWER TARIFF
Section
   
942.01   Sewer tariff
§ 942.01 SEWER TARIFF.
   (a)   Rules and regulations. The rules and regulations for the government of
sewerage utilities, adopted by the Public Service Commission of the state, and
now in effect, and all amendments thereto and modifications thereof hereafter
made by said Commission.
   (b)   Sewer rates.
      (1)   Applicability. Applicable within the entire territory served.
      (2)   Availability. Available for general domestic, commercial,
industrial and sale for resale sewer service.
      (3)   Rates.
 
Gallons Used Per Month Per 1,000 Gallons
First 5,000            $13.43
Next 15,000            $7.14
All over 20,000        $4.31
 
      (4)   Minimum charge. No bill will be rendered for less than $26.86 per
month.
      (5)   Sales for resale service. All sewage from the Hamrick Public
Service District will be treated at the approved rate of $2.25 per 1,000
gallons of water consumed.
      (6)   Delayed payment penalty. The above schedule is net. On all accounts
not paid in full when due, 10% will be added to the net current amount unpaid.
This delayed payment penalty is not interest and is to be collected only once
for each bill where it is applicable.
      (7)   Security deposit. An initial security deposit for new service will
be required equal to one-twelfth of the annual estimated charge for residential
service (based on 4,000 gallons or $53.72) or one-sixth of the annual estimated
charge for all other service.
      (8)   Tap fee.
         A.   The following charge is to be made whenever the utility installs
a new tap to serve an applicant.
         B.   A tap fee of $400 will be charged to all customers who apply for
service outside of a certificate proceeding before the Commission for each new
tap to the system.
      (9)   Disconnection. If any bill is not paid within 30 days after the
date of the mailing thereof, water and sewage service to the customer will be
discontinued, provided, however, that at least three days before the
discontinuation of sewage service, a notice of such discontinuation shall be
mailed to the delinquent customer at his or her last address on record with the
Billing Clerk, by regular United States mail, postage prepaid. Water and sewage
service will not be restored until all past due sewage bills have been paid in
full and all accrued penalties plus a reconnection charge of $25 shall be paid.
      (10)   Returned check charge. A service charge equal to the actual bank
fee assessed to the city or a maximum of $25 will be imposed upon any customer
whose check for payment of charges is returned by their bank due to
insufficient funds or any other reason.
      (11)   Adjustment for unusual consumption. When the city determines that
there has been unusual consumption of sewage treatment services by any customer
which can be attributed by the city to be eligible leakage of water on the
customer’s side of the water meter, the city shall assess and bill, and the
customer shall pay, to the Sewer Fund of the city a sewage treatment charge of
$1.32 per 1,000 gallons of water (or fraction thereof) over and above the
customer’s two-year historical average usage of water.
      (12)   Surface or groundwater surcharge. 
         (a)   An additional amount shall be charged where surface or
groundwater is introduced into the sanitary system where evidence of a
violation exists.
         (b)   Surcharge formula to be applied in case where surface drainage
is connected to the utility’s sewerage system.
      (13)   Applicability.
         A.   Whenever the utility has discovered that a customer’s roof drain,
downspout, storm sewer or similar facilities conducting surface water have been
connected to the utility’s sewerage system, and such customer has failed to
take appropriate action within 60 days of receipt of a demand by the utility,
in accordance with the Rules of the Public Service Commission, to eliminate
such connection, a surcharge will be imposed upon the customer calculated on
the basis of the following formula:
         S = A x R x 0.0006233 x C
      S   =   The surcharge in dollars
      A   =   The area under roof and/or the area of any other water collection
surface connected to the sanitary sewer, in square feet
      R   =   The measured monthly rainfall, in inches
      .0006233   =   A conversion factor to change inches of rain X square feet
of surface water to thousands of gallons of water
      .0008333   =   A conversion factor to change inches of rain X square feet
of surface water to $ per 100 cubic feet
      C    =   The utility’s approved rate per thousand gallons of metered
water usage
         B.   The utility shall not impose the surcharge unless and until the
customer has been notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
hand delivery, that it has been established by smoke testing, dye testing, or
on-site inspection that rain or surface water is being introduced into the
sanitary sewer system at the customer’s location, and that the customer has not
acted within 60 days from receipt of such notice to divert the water from the
sanitary sewerage system.
         C.   Said surcharge shall be calculated and imposed for each month
that said condition continues to exist. Failure to pay the surcharge and/or
correct the situation shall give rise to the possible termination of water
service in accordance with the Rules of the Public Service Commission of West
Virginia.
(Ord. 21A, passed 3-16-2021)
CHAPTER 5: OTHER PUBLIC SERVICES
Article
   
945. Refuse Collection
ARTICLE 945: REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
945.01   Definitions
   
945.02   Refuse collection
   
945.03   Fees, rates and charges
   
945.04   Accumulation of refuse
   
945.05   Grass, weeds and vegetation
 
   
945.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Loads dropping or leaking, see TRAF.
347.04
   Power to regulate, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(10) et seq.
§ 945.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer of Tucker County.
   PERSON(S). Any individual, partnership, firm, or corporation.
   PRIVATE SCAVENGER. One who for hire, collects, removes or disposes of
refuse.
   REFUSE. All sweeping, cleaning, trash, rubbish, litter, garbage, industrial
or domestic wastes; fruit or other vegetable matter from the kitchen or dining
room; accumulated waste materials or substances which may become nuisances,
some of which are more particularly as follows.
      (1)   PREPARED GARBAGE. Waste material from kitchens, dining rooms and
similar places, from which liquids have been drained and solid matter wrapped
in paper.
      (2)   RAW GARBAGE. Swill not prepared as in division (1) above.
      (3)   TRASH. Waste matter containing no putrid matter or organic wastes.
   REFUSE COLLECTION. The gathering of refuse containers and their contents
from the premises of improved property and loading contents into removal
vehicles, and returning containers to place where found after contents have
been emptied, for which the charge is made as provided for in §
945.03(a) of this article.
   REFUSE CONTAINERS. The trash and garbage containers referred to in this
article shall meet the following specifications:
      (1)   Standard containers for the storage of refuse shall be made of
leakproof material with a tight fitting lid or cover and shall have a capacity
not to exceed 30 gallons, any container having a capacity over 20 gallons shall
have the carrying handles, but any container of less than 20-gallon capacity
may be equipped with an adequate bail carrying handle; and
      (2)   The Mayor or other proper officer of the Division of Sanitation may
authorize or direct the use of such other or special containers as the
circumstances of any particular situation may require.
   REFUSE DISPOSITION. The disposition of refuse in accordance with rules and
regulations promulgated by the Mayor with approval of the City Council.
   REFUSE REMOVAL. The hauling and transportation of refuse from point of
collection to point of disposal.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2020)
§ 945.02 REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the city, to engage
in or conduct the business of collection, removal or disposal of refuse or raw
garbage prepared within the corporate limits of the city, and all persons,
businesses, houses, firms or corporations residing in or doing business within
the city shall be required by the Division of Sanitation of the city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
neglect or refuse to subscribe to such service and to pay for the same at the
rates established by the City Council for the type of service furnished to each
such person, firm or corporation.
   (b)   (1)   On and after the date when this article becomes operative, there
shall be a Division of Sanitation under the supervision or direction of the
Mayor. The Mayor or other duly authorized officer, with the approval of the
City Council, shall be adequately supplied with the personnel and equipment to
property and satisfactorily carry out the essential public service of
collecting, removing, and disposing of refuse produced in the households and
places of business in the city.
      (2)   The Mayor or other duly authorized officer, with the approval of
the City Council, shall have, and is hereby given authority to prescribe,
publish, promulgate, and enforce any and all reasonable rules, and regulations
deemed by him or her necessary or proper, consistent with this article, to
carry out the objects and purposes thereof, and for the safety and health of
the citizens of the city, in respect to the collection, removal, and disposal
of refuse as herein defined. The County Health Officer is hereby made and shall
be ex-officio Sanitation Inspector, whose duty it shall be to advise and
consult with the Mayor or other duly authorized officers with respect to
enforcing the provisions of this article.
   (c)   Private scavengers, push cart operators, and private garbage
collectors are hereby prohibited from engaging in the business of transporting
raw or prepared garbage and refuse.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2020)
§ 945.03 FEES, RATES AND CHARGES.
   (a)   In order to provide a Division of Sanitation for the city on a self-
supporting basis and to finance the operation thereof, there shall be, and
there is hereby established a schedule of fees, rates, and charges for standard
types of refuse services as follows.
      (1)   Schedule of fees for residential and commercial customers, based on
30-gallon bags is as follows.
Rate Type (Bags) 1/Week 2/Week 3/Week 4/Week 5/Week
Rate Type (Bags) 1/Week 2/Week 3/Week 4/Week 5/Week
1 - 5            $20    $40    $60    $80    $100
6 - 10           $40    $80    $120   $160   $200
11 - 15          $60    $120   $180   $240   $300
16 - 20          $80    $160   $240   $320   $400
21 - 25          $100   $200   $300   $400   $500
26 - 30          $120   $240   $360   $480   $600
31 - 35          $140   $280   $420   $560   $700
36 - 40          $160   $320   $480   $640   $800
41 - 45          $180   $360   $540   $720   $900
46 - 50          $200   $400   $600   $800   $1,000
A 10% penalty shall be added to the charges, if not paid within 20 days of
billing date
Additional bag charge of $1.25 per bag will be charged to customers who
exceed their limit
 
      (2)   Minimum charges for temporary dumpster rentals are as follows.
 
Rate Type       Monthly Rental Delivery and Pick-Up Total
2-yard dumpster $15            $30                  $45
4-yard dumpster $20            $30                  $50
6-yard dumpster $25            $30                  $55
8-yard dumpster $30            $30                  $60
A 10% penalty shall be added to the charges, if not paid within 20 days of
billing date
 
      (3)   Schedule of disposal fees for temporary dumpster rentals is as
follows.
 
Rate Type       Per Day
2-yard dumpster $41
4-yard dumpster $52
6-yard dumpster $63
8-yard dumpster $84
A 10% penalty shall be added to the charges, if not paid within 20 days of
billing date
Additional bag charge of $1.25 per bag will be charged to customers who exceed
their limit
 
      (4)   Schedules of fees for dumpster services to residential and
commercial customers based upon size of dumpster.
 
Rate Type       1/Week 2/Week 3/Week 4/Week 5/Week
2-yard dumpster $110   $210   $310   $410   $510
4-yard dumpster $168   $324   $480   $636   $792
6-yard dumpster $226   $438   $650   $862   $1,074
8-yard dumpster $284   $552   $820   $1,088 $1,356
A 10% penalty shall be added to the charges, if not paid within 20 days of
billing date
Additional bag charge of $1.25 per bag will be charged to customers who
exceed their limit
 
      (5)   Under these schedules, the city shall not collect ashes, sewage,
animal excreta or carcasses, tree or shrub trimmings, materials resulting from
the demolition, repair, alteration or erection of buildings or structures.
      (6)   The city shall have the right to deny standard refuse service to
any person whose refuse requirements are sufficiently abnormal or different, in
the opinion of the County Health Officer, as to justify special handling, in
which case a special charge will be made. This shall include those buildings or
dwellings not readily accessible to refuse collectors, or in case where refuse
is not found in suitable containers.
      (7)   All refuse must be placed at curbside or at the proper pick-up
location by 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled date of pick-up.
      (8)   The city shall provide bulky item removal to all residential
customers on the last Thursday of every month, unless a new collection date has
been rescheduled by an authorized officer. Each residential customer will be
allowed to dispose of two bulky items per month. Customers in excess of the two
item limit will be charged $25 per item. Customers must call the city business
office at least two days in advance to schedule a pick-up. Bulky item(s) must
be placed at the curb for collection by 7:00 a.m. on the scheduled date of
pick-up. Bulky items include refrigerators, e-waste (includes televisions,
computer monitors, laptops, tablets, and/or anything with a screen measuring
more than four inches diagonally), washing machines, clothes dryers,
dishwashers, ovens, stoves, microwave ovens, and other appliances; televisions,
home computers, air conditioners, bicycles, furniture, and other items not
included above that are too large or too heavy to be placed inside a trash bag.
   (b)   The City Council shall have the right to revise the rates above and so
adjust them that costs will be distributed as equitable as possible among all
citizens of the city on the basis of benefits received. At no time however,
shall rates be continued which are disclosed to be producing less revenue than
is required to meet all obligations and costs involved in rendering refuse
service to the public.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2020)
§ 945.04 ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to permit the
accumulation of refuse in or upon premises owned, occupied, or used by them,
when and if in the judgment of the County Health Officer such accumulation is
unsightly, unsanitary or hazardous to the property, life, health, safety, or
welfare of the public.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful to deliver refuse to or upon private property.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or scatter any
garbage, rubbish, trash, or other refuse over or upon any premises, street or
alley, river or stream, either public or private, or adjacent thereto, either
with or without the intent to liter, remove or burn, or to suffer or permit,
from the accumulation of refuse, any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by
such persons, to become or remain offensive, unsanitary, unsafe to public
health, or hazardous from fire.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage of
refuse on or about their premises, or the premises occupied by them, unless
such refuse is kept in suitable containers.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any municipal employee to collect or remove,
at the city’s expense, any refuse from the premises of any person or tenant
thereof, unless such refuse is kept stored in such containers.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any municipal employee to collect or remove,
at the city’s expense, any refuse from the premises of any person, or tenant
thereof, unless such service has been paid for in full by the person occupying
said premises.
   (g)   It shall be unlawful for any person who without authorization dumps
garbage or trash, or assists in the unauthorized dumping of garbage or trash,
in a dumpster or other solid waste container which is located on the property
of another person and leased or otherwise owned or maintained by another person
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in
accordance with §
945.99 of this article. The act of throwing isolated objects into a dumpster or
other solid waste container in the prevention or elimination of litter is
specifically accepted from any penalties under this section.
   (h)   The City Council or the Mayor shall have the right to issue,
promulgate and establish such rules and regulations as shall be deemed
necessary or proper to the effective administration of this article and not
inconsistent therewith, including the right to prescribe the place at which
refuse containers shall be placed, so as to facilitate the collection and
removal of refuse.
   (i)   The Mayor or other duly authorized officer, with the approval of the
City Council, shall have the right to establish rates for the collection of
refuse or garbage under the provisions of this article where no specific rate
is provided therein, or where the collection thereof requires services
different from those ordinarily provided under the terms of this article.
   (j)   The City Council reserves the right, by a proper order of resolution,
to provide for the disposal of garbage by any practical means open to them.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2020)
§ 945.05 GRASS, WEEDS AND VEGETATION.
   (a)   No owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises shall allow or
permit thereon any growth of weeds to the height of more than six inches, nor
shall any person allow or permit the growth of any weeds or grass upon any part
of any sidewalk abutting upon such premises.
   (b)   All premises shall be maintained by the owners, occupants, and persons
in charge thereof free of vegetation, which affords a breeding place for
insects, reptiles, or rodents and upon all premises not devoted to agricultural
uses, the grass thereon shall be kept trimmed to a height of not more than six
inches.
   (c)   Grass, weeds, and vegetation, when cut down, shall be removed from the
premises and disposed of in such a manner as not to create a nuisance.
   (d)   Whenever grass, weeds, and vegetation shall be allowed to accumulate
upon any premises within the city in violation of this article, the owner and
person in charge of the property upon which such accumulation is found shall be
jointly and severally responsible for its removal such accumulation within 48
hours after receipt of written notice to do so from the City Council; and if
both the owner and person in charge of such property fails within the time
indicated in the order or notice, to comply with such notice, the Mayor shall
thereupon authorize and direct the Street Department to remove such
accumulations of grass, weeds, or vegetation; and after removal of such grass,
weeds, or vegetation, the City Treasurer shall collect from the property owner
the amount of expense to the city of such removal.
   (e)   Whenever any premises within the city are in violation of this
section, the owner and person in charge of such premises shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the abatement of such violation.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2020)
§ 945.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person violating any of the provision of this article or failing,
or refusing to abide by and comply with the rules or regulations promulgated to
effectuate the provisions of this article, convicted of a misdemeanor under
this article, shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Upon a first conviction under this section, the defendant shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $250.
      (2)   Upon a second conviction under this section, the defendant shall be
fined not less than $250 nor more than $500.
      (3)   Upon any subsequent conviction in excess of a second conviction
under this section, the defendant shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, or imprisoned in jail not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days,
or both fined and imprisoned.
   (b)   Each succeeding day a violation of this article exists shall
constitute a new and separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-15-2020)
PART XI: HEALTH AND SANITATION CODE
Article
   
1101.   DANGEROUS OR UNHEALTHY STRUCTURES
   
1111.   NUISANCES
   
1121.   VACANT STRUCTURES
   
1131.   911 ADDRESSING AND MAPPING
   
1141.   ALTERNATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF EXTERNAL SANITATION AND COMMON NUISANCES
ARTICLE 1101: DANGEROUS OR UNHEALTHY STRUCTURES
Section
   
1101.01   Scope
   
1101.02   Building Codes adopted
   
1101.03   Violations and penalties for Building Code
   
1101.04   Definitions
   
1101.05   Inspection of new construction
   
1101.06   Building Maintenance Board
   
1101.07   Inspections
   
1101.08   Repair, closing, and demolition of unsafe structures
   
1101.09   Hearings
   
1101.10   Enforcement orders; violations
   
1101.11   Property Maintenance Code
Cross-references:
   Nuisances, see H. & S. Art. 1111
   Vacant structures, see H. & S. Art. 1121
§ 1101.01 SCOPE.
   This article is enacted pursuant to authority contained in W. Va. Code 8-12-
16 and nothing herein contained shall be construed to abrogate or impair the
power of any department of the city to enforce any provision of this Code or
other ordinance or regulation, nor to prevent or punish violations; and the
powers conferred by this article shall be in addition and supplemental to the
powers conferred by any other law of the state or ordinance of the city.
§ 1101.02 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED.
Editor’s note:
   See Article 1705.
§ 1101.03 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES FOR BUILDING CODE.
   (a)   No person, firm, or corporation whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
or occupant shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or residence in
violation of the provisions of the city’s Building Codes.
   (b)   It is hereby declared that any violation of this code constitutes a
public nuisance, and in addition to any other remedies provided by this code
for enforcement, the city may bring civil suit to enjoin the violation of any
provisions of this code.
   (c)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and each such person shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed or
permitted, and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be
punishable by fine of $100 or 30 days in jail, or both.
§ 1101.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSION. The Building Commission of the City of Parsons, West
Virginia.
   CIRCUIT COURT. The Circuit Court of Tucker County, West Virginia.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Parsons, West Virginia.
   UNSAFE BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any dwelling or other building unfit for human
habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing and hazard of fire,
accidents or other calamities, lack of ventilation, light, or sanitary
facilities, or any other conditions prevailing in any dwelling or building,
whether used for human habitation or not, which would cause such building to be
unsafe, unsanitary, dangerous, or detrimental to the public welfare.
§ 1101.05 INSPECTION OF NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   After issuing a building permit as provided by the Code, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall cause inspections to be conducted from time to time
during and upon completion of the work for which a permit has been issued. A
record of all such examinations and inspections and of all violations of this
Code shall be maintained by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (b)   For on-site inspection, from time to time by the Code Enforcement
Officer or City Engineer, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make or cause to be made any necessary inspections and shall
either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify
the permit holder or his or her agent wherein the same fails to comply with
this Code.
      (1)   Foundation inspection. Commonly made after poles or piers are set
or trenches or basement areas are excavated and forms erected and any required
reinforcing steel is in place and prior to the placing of concrete. The
foundation inspection shall include excavations for thickened slabs intended
for the support of bearing walls, partitions, structural supports, or equipment
and special requirements for wood foundations.
      (2)   Plumbing, mechanical, electrical, and framing. Rough inspection
commonly made prior to covering or concealment, before fixtures are set.
      (3)   Other inspections. In addition to the called inspections above, the
Code Enforcement Officer may make or require any other inspections to ascertain
compliance with this Code and other laws enforced by the Building Commission.
      (4)   Final inspection. Commonly made after the building is completed and
ready for occupancy. A certificate of occupancy must be obtained after final
inspection, and is required before occupancy of the building can be permitted.
      (5)   Fee schedule. The fees for plan examination, building permit, and
inspections shall be approved by City Council, and the Building Official is
authorized to prescribe a schedule of unit rates for inspection of buildings
and structures of all use groups and types of construction, to be approved by
City Council.
§ 1101.06 BUILDING MAINTENANCE BOARD.
   (a)   A Building Maintenance Board for the city is hereby created. It shall
consist of the Mayor, the City Administrator, one member of City Council, the
Building Inspector or authorized individual, and one member at large. The
member at large is to be selected by and to serve at the will and pleasure of
the Mayor. The ranking health officer of the city (and in lieu of such officer,
the Chief of Police of the city) and the Fire Chief or designee thereof of the
city shall serve as ex-officio members of the Board.
   (b)   The purpose of the Board is to be the enforcement agency as described
in W. Va. Code 8-12-16, and to serve as the Code Official’s appointed officers
to administer the Property Maintenance Code of the city.
§ 1101.07 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Commission or its agent or agents shall inspect and examine any
dwelling or building within the municipality which, upon complaint of any
federal, state, or municipal official or employee, or upon complaint of any
resident or citizen of the municipality, is alleged to constitute an unsafe
building or structure as herein defined; provided, that any entrance upon
premises for the purpose of making such inspection or examination shall be made
in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession.
§ 1101.08 REPAIR, CLOSING, AND DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE STRUCTURES.
   When a building or structure or any portion thereof is, upon inspection by
the Building Commission or its agent or agents, found to be an unsafe building
or structure as herein defined, the Building Commission shall issue a complaint
setting forth therein the condition or conditions prevailing in such building
or structure which render it to be an unsafe building or structure as hereby
defined and directing the repair, alteration, improvement, or the vacating and
closing or removal or demolition, or any combination thereof, of such building
or structure, as the case may require, within a reasonable time to be set by
the Building Commission. Such complaint shall further set a time and place for
hearing at which time all interested parties may appear and be heard.
§ 1101.09 HEARINGS.
   If the directions of the Building Commission as set forth in the complaint
are not carried out within the time specified therein, the Building Commission
shall conduct a hearing at the time and place set forth in the complaint at
which hearing all interested parties may appear, present evidence, and be heard
with respect to such complaint.
§ 1101.10 ENFORCEMENT ORDERS; VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   If, after hearing the evidence presented at the hearing, the Building
Commission determines that the building or structure in question is an unsafe
building or structure as herein defined, the Commission shall order that it be
repaired, altered, improved, vacated, closed, removed, or demolished, or any
combination thereof, as the case may require, within a time to be set by the
Commission and, if the owner or occupant of such building or structure does not
comply with such order within the time specified, the municipality shall carry
out the order and direction of the Commission and shall assess all costs of
such repairs, alterations, improvements, or such vacating and closing or
removal or demolition or any combination thereof to the owner of such building
or structure, and such costs, after the sale of any and all salvaged material
is credited to the account, shall be a lien against the real property upon
which costs were incurred.
   (b)   All complaints or orders issued by the Building Commission shall be
served in accordance with the law of the state concerning the service of
process in civil actions, and shall, in addition thereto, be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
   (c)   Any owner or occupant of any building or structure affected by any
complaint or order of the Building Commission and the city shall have the right
to apply to the circuit court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Building Commission pending final disposition of the cause, as provided in W.
Va. Code 8-12-16.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, lessee, or other person
in interest of such dwelling, building, or structure as determined by the
Building Commission to be dangerous, unhealthy, or unfit for human habitation
to fail to comply with any order to repair, vacate, or demolish and remove
same, or any other order of the Building Commission from which no appeal or
other remedy has been invoked. The imposition of one penalty for any violation
shall not excuse subsequent violations or deny subsequent impositions, fines,
or imprisonment or both for continuing violations; and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time, and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited
conditions continue, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any notice or order of
the Building Commission posted as required under any of the provisions of the
chapter.
§ 1101.11 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The 2015 International Property Maintenance Code was adopted on May 18,
2021. The complete copy of the code can be viewed at https://codes.iccsafe.org/
content/IPMC2015
ARTICLE 1111: NUISANCES
Section
   
1111.01   Supplemental to other regulations
   
1111.02   Prohibited nuisances
   
1111.03   Maintenance of premises
   
1111.04   Abatement
   
1111.05   Notice to owners prior to removal of an abandoned or junked motor
vehicle
Cross-references:
   Authority to abate public nuisance, see W. Va. Code 8-12-5(13), (23)
   Vacant structures, see H. & S. Art. 1121
§ 1111.01 SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Various nuisances are defined and prohibited in other provisions of this
Code, and it is the intent of the City Council in enacting this article to make
it supplemental to those other provisions in which nuisances are defined and
prohibited; and the provisions of this article regarding the abatement of
nuisances shall be regarded as alternative methods and procedures for the
abatement of nuisances in those instances where other methods and procedures
for abatement are provided.
§ 1111.02 PROHIBITED NUISANCES.
   (a)   No person shall cause, harbor, commit, or maintain, or to suffer to be
caused, harbored, committed, or maintained any nuisance as defined by the
statute or common law of this state or as defined by this Code or other
ordinance of the city at any place within the city, or at any place beyond the
city limits which is owned by the city or over which the city has a right-of-
way.
   (b)   The following acts when committed, or conditions when existing, within
the city are hereby defined and declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   An act done or committed or aided or assisted to be done or
committed by any person, or any substance, being, or thing kept, maintained,
placed, or found in or upon any public or private place, which is injurious or
dangerous to the public health or safety;
      (2)   All buildings, bridges, or other structures of whatever character
kept or maintained or which are permitted by any person owning or having
control thereof to be kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous,
unhealthy, injurious, or annoying to the public;
      (3)   All trees and other appendages of or to realty kept or maintained
or which are permitted by any person owning or having control thereof to be
kept or maintained in a condition unsafe, dangerous, unhealthy, injurious, or
annoying to the public;
      (4)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, and all foul or dirty water
or liquid when discharged through any drain, pipe, or spout or thrown into or
upon any street, public place, or lot to the injury or annoyance of the public;
      (5)   All obstructions caused or permitted on any street or sidewalk to
the danger or annoyance of the public, and all stones, rubbish, dirt, filth,
slops, vegetable matter, or other article thrown or placed by any person on or
in any street, sidewalk, or other public place, which in any way may cause any
injury or annoyance to the public;
      (6)   All sidewalks, gutters, or curbstones permitted to remain in an
unsafe condition or out of repair;
      (7)   All houses, buildings, structures, or enclosures used for special
storage of powder, dynamite, or other explosive or highly flammable substances
or gases, except those maintained pursuant to permit issued by competent
authority; and
      (8)   Any litter, trash, garbage, or refuse or any abandoned unlicensed
motor vehicle (unless it is deemed to be a valuable asset and/or a classic, at
which time an exemption may be given provided the vehicle is covered and/or
within an enclosure) or any part thereof, which is or may be offensive to the
neighborhood or citizens generally.
   (c)   Any offensive or unwholesome substance or growth of grass, weeds, or
brush upon any lot or parcel of ground.
   (d)   The nuisances described in this section shall not be construed as
exclusive, and any act of commission or omission and any condition which
constitutes a nuisance by statute or common law of the state is, when
committed, omitted or existing within the city are hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance.
§ 1111.03 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   (a)   No person owning or in possession of any lot, house, building, or
enclosure shall allow or suffer to exist in or upon such premises any stagnant
water, animal, or vegetable matter or other substance liable to become putrid,
offensive, annoying, or unhealthy. Persons owning or in possession of any real
estate shall provide proper and adequate drainage therefor so that no
offensive, baneful, or disagreeable liquids shall flow or seep into any street.
Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (b)   No person who, being the owner, lessee, or occupant of any lot or
parcel of land, shall knowingly permit to remain thereon any structure, tree,
machine or appliance, combustible materials, or any other materials or
combination of materials which create a fire hazard or a hazard to adjoining
public or private property or to persons using or occupying such adjoining
public or private property, or to neglect or refuse to remove or abate the
nuisance occasioned thereby within 24 hours after such person has knowledge of
the existence of such nuisance upon any of the above described premises, owned,
leased, or occupied by him or her. Any violation of this section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
§ 1111.04 ABATEMENT.
   (a)   Inspections, investigations, and complaints.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief or
designee thereof, the Code Enforcement Officer, and the City Health Officer to
cause inspections to be made from time to time within the city to determine
whether any condition exists or activity is being practiced which constitutes a
nuisance; and each such officer shall cause an investigation to be made upon
written complaint made by any responsible person.
      (2)   Each officer mentioned in division (a)(1) hereof shall, for the
purposes of this article, be designated as an “enforcement officer”.
   (b)   Right to enter private premises. Enforcement officers shall have the
right to enter upon private premises for the purposes specified in division (a)
hereof, upon proper identification and in compliance with all applicable
provisions of law. Unless it appears probable that advance warning would defeat
the purpose of such entry, occupants of premises to be entered shall be given
reasonable notice in advance, and in any case it shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant to prevent such entry which is sought to be made in
compliance with law.
   (c)   Notice to cease and desist. If at any time an enforcement officer
shall find that an activity or practice which constitutes a nuisance is
occurring within the city, he or she shall promptly and by the most expeditious
means notify the violator to cease and desist forthwith.
   (d)   Notice to abate; appeal. If at any time an enforcement officer shall
find that a condition which constitutes a nuisance exists within the city, he
or she shall give notice in writing to the owner, occupant, or person in charge
of the premises upon which such condition exists, stating therein the condition
which constitutes a nuisance and directing such addressee to remedy the
condition within the time stated in such notice, which shall be not more than
ten days; and it shall be unlawful for any such owner, occupant, or person in
charge to fail to comply with the terms of such notice; provided, that any
owner, occupant, or person in charge may, within two days from the service
thereof, appeal to the City Council, in which case the terms of such notice
shall be stayed pending actions of the Council, which shall be final; provided
further, that if the enforcement officer shall state in such notice that the
condition which constitutes a nuisance is such regarding be an imminent hazard
to the health, safety, or welfare of the public or any person within or near
the premises upon which such nuisance exists, then the addressee shall comply
with the terms of such notice.
   (e)   Failure to abate.
      (1)   Upon the failure of any person to whom notice has been given
pursuant to division (d) hereof to comply with the terms of such notice, or
with the terms imposed by the City Council on appeal, as the case may be, the
enforcement officer shall forthwith direct the appropriate city officer to
remedy the condition which is the subject of such notice, and the expense
incurred by the city in so doing shall be charged to the addressee of such
notice, as well regarding the owner of the premises which is the subject of
such notice, jointly and severally, to be collected as city taxes or in any
other manner authorized by law for the collection of money due the city.
      (2)   Abatement by the city of any condition which constitutes a nuisance
and reimbursement to the city of expenses incurred thereby shall not bar
prosecution for maintenance of a nuisance.
   (f)   Arrest for committing or maintaining nuisance. Nothing in this article
shall be considered to prohibit any police officer from arresting any person
for committing or maintaining a nuisance when such arrest is made pursuant to
law.
§ 1111.05 NOTICE TO OWNERS PRIOR TO REMOVAL OF AN ABANDONED OR JUNKED MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Prior to taking any abandoned or junked motor vehicle into custody and
possession from private property, the city shall give the private property
owner and the owner of said motor vehicle, if ascertainable, 30 days’ notice by
registered or certified mail that such action will be taken.
ARTICLE 1121: VACANT STRUCTURES
Section
   
1121.01   Adoption
   
1121.02   Purpose
   
1121.03   Definitions
   
1121.04   Standards
   
1121.05   Applicability
   
1121.06   Inspections
   
1121.07   Corrective action
   
1121.08   Registration generally
   
1121.09   Right of appeal
   
1121.10   Amending information
   
1121.11   Reinspection
   
1121.12   Non-payment of fees/liens
   
1121.13   Relation to other codes and laws
Cross-references:
   Dangerous or unhealthy structures, see H. & S.
Art. 1101
   Nuisances, see H. & S.
Art. 1111
§ 1121.01 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted a Vacant Structure Code for the city.
§ 1121.02 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The city has determined that an uninspected and unmonitored vacant
building may present a fire hazard, may provide temporary occupancy by
transients (including drug users and traffickers), may detract from private
and/or public efforts to rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings, and
that the health, safety, and welfare of the public is served by the regulation
of such vacant buildings.
   (b)   Owners of uninspected and unmonitored vacant buildings shall register
such vacant buildings with the city, make payment of a fee for the registration
thereof, and otherwise conform to these vacant building regulations.
   (c)   This article ensures that, through a registration, inspection, and
monitoring process, vacant buildings will be kept weather tight and secure from
trespassers, will provide safe entry to police officers and firefighters in
times of emergency, will not impede private and/or public efforts to
rehabilitate or maintain surrounding buildings, and will not present otherwise
a public hazard.
   (d)   The city, by and through its departments (particularly the Building
Maintenance Board), shall inspect and monitor vacant buildings (especially
vacant downtown buildings), shall assess the effects of the condition of those
buildings on nearby structures, and shall promote substantial efforts to
rehabilitate and develop such buildings when appropriate.
   (e)   These provisions will streamline and consolidate the existing
procedure (that is, complaint, research, notification, inspection, orders,
fines, liens, appeals, and due process lien enforcement) by placing the
responsibility to register and maintain vacant structures on the building owner
before a building’s condition falls into disrepair or otherwise merits a
complaint.
§ 1121.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARDED. A building or structure subject to the provision of this article
shall be deemed to be BOARDED if in place of one or more exterior doors, other
than a storm door, or of one or more windows, there is a sheet or sheets of
plywood or similar material covering the space for such door or window.
   EXTERIOR MAINTENANCE AND MAJOR SYSTEMS. The safe and lawful maintenance of
the facade, windows, doors, roof, and other parts of the exterior of the
building and the maintenance of its major systems consisting of the roof, the
electrical and plumbing systems, the water supply system, the sewer system, and
the sidewalk, driveway, if any, area of the lot, as applicable and as enforced
by the Building Maintenance Board, particularly in connection with codes
adopted by the city as well as all applicable local, state, and federal laws.
   OCCUPIED. Any building or structure shall be deemed to be occupied if one or
more persons actually conducts a lawful business or resides in all or any part
of the building as the licensed business occupant, or as the legal or equitable
owner/occupant(s) or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis, or any
combination of the same. For purposes of this article, evidence offered to
prove that a building is so OCCUPIED may include, but shall not be limited to,
the regular receipt of delivery of regular mail through the U.S. Postal
Service; proof of continual telephone, electric, gas, heating, water, and sewer
services; a valid city business license, or the most recent, federal, state, or
city income tax statements indicating that the subject property is the official
business or residence address of the person or business claiming occupancy; or
proof of bonafide pre-rental inspection.
   OPEN. A building or structure subject to the provisions of this section
shall be deemed to be OPEN if any one or more exterior doors other than a storm
door is broken, open, and/or closed but, without a properly functioning lock to
secure it, or if one or more windows is broken or not capable of being locked
and secured from intrusion, or any combination of the same.
   OWNER. An owner of the freehold of the premises or any lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee, a vendee-in-possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, agent, or any other person, firm, or corporation
that is directly or indirectly in control of a building subject to the
provisions of this article, and as set forth below.
   VACANT. A building or structure shall be deemed to be VACANT if no person or
persons actually, currently conduct a lawfully licensed business, or lawfully
reside, dwell, or live in any part of the building as the legal or equitable
owner(s) or tenant-occupant(s), or owner-occupant(s), or tenant(s) on a
permanent, non-transient basis. A building or structure shall be deemed VACANT
and subject to the registration and possible penalty provisions provided herein
if the exterior maintenance and major systems of the building and the
surrounding real property thereof, as defined in this section, are in violation
of the building codes or health and sanitation codes and if there is not proof
of continual utility service evidencing actual use of electric, gas (i.e.,
applicable heating sources, water service, and the like). CONTINUED is meant to
be without more than one 30-day interruption in any given 360-day period. In
order for such continual utility service to be considered as being actually IN
USE as described in this article, it must be more than merely registered to the
owner for purposes of billing and must be utilized, at a minimum, in order to
keep the property and the major systems of the building in compliance with
building and safety codes. The person or entity asserting that there has been
continued utility service has the burden to produce actual bills evidencing
utility service for the relevant period.
§ 1121.04 STANDARDS.
   All vacant structures shall also comply with the following criteria.
   (a)   Exterior property areas are to be mowed regularly and non-cultivated
gardens maintained at no more than 12 inches of growth. All noxious weeds are
prohibited.
   (b)   Structure is to be broom swept and cleared of all contents, not
including building materials or components to be used in the future renovation
at that structure.
   (c)   Electrical service is to be provided to the building via temporary
pole service on the exterior of the structure or create a permanent service for
the structure and install two GFCI protected receptacles.
   (d)   NEC and OSHA compliant string lighting is to be provided to the entire
structure so that it may be illuminated as needed to view the structure.
   (e)   Unstable interior and exterior surfaces and components are to be
removed. Unstable or unsound accessory buildings are to be razed or renovated.
   (f)   Using wood sheet goods, all loose, deteriorated, and broken windows
and doors are to be covered to eliminate the danger of their falling and to
prevent the unwanted entry of trespassers. Such wood sheet goods are to be cut
and neatly fit, not just nailed over the opening.
   (g)   All loose or deteriorated trim, gutter, or overhang extensions
(masonry or frame) are to be removed or reattached to prevent falling.
   (h)   Regular routine monitoring of the structure is to occur by the owner
to ensure that the building is being kept in compliance with the above items.
   (i)   Utilities need to be connected to the structure.
§ 1121.05 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The requirements of this section shall be applicable to each owner of
any building that is found to be vacant pursuant to the language contained
herein. Each such owner shall cause to be filed a notarized registration
statement, which shall include the street address and parcel number of each
such vacant building, the names and addresses of all owners, as hereinafter
described, and any other information deemed necessary by the Building
Maintenance Board. The registration fee(s) as required by this section shall be
billed by the city and shall be paid by the last day of the month when the
property has been registered.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the following shall also be applicable:
       (1)   If the owner is a corporation, the registration statement shall
provide the names and residence addresses of all officers and directors of the
corporation and shall be accompanied by a copy of the most recent annual
franchise tax report filed with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   If an estate, the name and business address of the executor of the
estate;
      (3)   If a trust, the name and address of all trustees, grantors, and
beneficiaries;
      (4)   If a partnership, the names and residence addresses of all partners
with an interest of 10% or greater;
      (5)   If any other form of unincorporated association, the names and
residence addresses of all principals with an interest of 10% or greater; and
      (6)   If an individual person, the name and residence address of that
individual person.
§ 1121.06 INSPECTIONS.
   At the time of registration, the Chief Building Inspector, Fire Chief or
designee thereof, City Engineer, and Police Chief shall determine whether it is
necessary for any or all of them to inspect the structure so as to identify any
public safety issues needing addressed. Inspections shall also be available to
verify the status of any property concerning occupancy, vacancy, and the like.
If an internal inspection is deemed necessary, the owner will be notified of
the same and arrangements made for the same. If the owner fails or refuses to
consent to and arrange for an inspection, the city will seek an administrative
search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction, which shall include the
Municipal Court, to authorize inspection of the premises for the purpose of
determining the structural integrity of the building, the repairs necessary to
ensure its structural integrity and that it will be safe for entry by fire
fighters and police officers in time of emergency, and that the building and
its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the time that the
building remains vacant.
§ 1121.07 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   The property owners shall be notified in writing of any corrective action
deemed necessary for the protection of life and safety and enforcement of the
City Building Code. This notice shall contain the applicable code provisions
and regulations in question, as well as setting a reasonable time for the
correction to be taken.
§ 1121.08 REGISTRATION GENERALLY.
   (a)   At the time of adoption of this article, all owners of realty within
the city that contain a vacant structure, as defined above, shall register the
same with the office of the Building Inspector of the city. For those
structures that qualify as a vacant structure and after the adoption of this
article, the owner thereof shall be required to register the structure with the
Building Inspector within 30 days after the structure is found to meet the
definition of a vacant structure. The registration form shall require
information from the registrant deemed necessary by the Administrator, Building
Inspector, Fire Chief or designee thereof, City Engineer, and Police Chief of
the city, so as to ensure that the purpose of this article is met.
Specifically, the above named city officers shall have the authority to require
that the property owner provide a professional opinion (architect, engineer,
and the like) to determine the structural integrity and that it will be safe
for entry by firefighters and police officers in time of emergency, and that
the building and its contents do not present a hazard to the public during the
time the building remains vacant. The above named officers shall have the
authority to issue orders to the owner for corrective action deemed necessary.
The Building Inspector and Fire Chief or designee thereof shall rely upon the
State Building Code and Fire Code, as well as other applicable law, for
guidance during any such structural review.
   (b)   If none of the persons listed, as above, is shown at an address within
the state, the registration statement also shall provide the name and address
of a person who resides within the state and who is authorized to accept
service of process on behalf of the owners and who shall be designated as a
responsible, local party or agent, both for purposes of notification in the
event of an emergency affecting the public health, safety, or welfare and for
purposes of service of any and all notices or registration statements as herein
authorized and in connection herewith. Registration shall be required for all
vacant buildings, whether vacant and secure, vacant and open, or vacant and
boarded, and shall be required whenever any building has remained vacant for 60
consecutive days or more. In no instance shall the registration of a vacant
building and the payment of registration fees be construed to exonerate the
owner, agent, or responsible party for compliance with any other Building Code
or Fire Code requirement. One registration statement may be filed to include
all vacant buildings of the owner so registering, but each structure
constitutes a separate fee. The owner of the vacant property as of the last day
of the month when the property has been registered of each calendar year shall
be responsible for the payment of the non-refundable registration fee. Said fee
shall be billed by the city and based on the duration of the vacancy as
determined by the following scale:
      (1)   No fee for properties that are vacant for less than one year;
      (2)   Two hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least one
year but less than two years;
      (3)   Four hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
two years but less than three years;
      (4)   Six hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
three years but less than four years;
      (5)   Eight hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for at least
four years but less than five years; and
      (6)   One thousand six hundred dollars for properties that are vacant for
at least five years, plus an additional $300 for each year in excess of five
years.
§ 1121.09 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (a)   The owner shall have the right to appeal the imposition of the
registration fees to the City Administrator; upon filing an application in
writing to the Building Inspector no later than 15 calendar days after the date
of the billing statement. On appeal, the owner shall bear the burden of
providing satisfactory objective proof of occupancy as defined in this article
specifically.
   (b)   A waiver of the registration fee, or an extension of a waiver fee up
to 90 days from the date of the current billing statement, may be granted by
the City Administrator or his or her designee upon application of the owner and
upon review and advice of the Building Maintenance Board; if the owner:
      (1)   Demonstrates with satisfactory proof to the City Administrator or
his or her designee that he or she is in the process of demolition,
rehabilitation, or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
      (2)   Objectively demonstrates to the City Administrator or his or her
designee a reasonable anticipated length of time for the demolition,
rehabilitation, or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
      (3)   Provides satisfactory proof to the City Administrator or his or her
designee that he or she was actively attempting to sell or lease the property
during the vacancy period; or
      (4)   Provides satisfactory proof to the City Administrator, to be
evaluated on a case-by-case basis, that the vacancy is temporary and may be due
to illness of the owner, active military service, or some other reasonable
explanation believed to be short term in nature and documentable as necessary.
   (c)   Within 30 days, or as soon thereafter as possible, after the waiver
application is received, the City Administrator or his or her designee shall
grant or deny the waiver, or request for extension, in writing, and dispatch
the written decision by mail to the owner. If the owner properly submitted an
application for a waiver or request for extension to the City Administrator or
his or her designee, and the City Administrator or his or her designee rendered
a decision which the owner seeks to appeal to the City Council, the owner must
file an appeal petition in writing no later than 30 calendar days from the date
of the City Administrator or his or her designee’s decision. City Council shall
either grant or deny the appeal. Thereafter the decision of the City Council is
final unless within 30 days of such decision the owner appeals for injunctive
relief to the Circuit Court of the county.
§ 1121.10 AMENDING INFORMATION.
   (a)   Duty to amend registration statement. If the status of the
registration information changes during the course of any calendar year, it is
the responsibility of the owner, responsible party, or agent for the same, to
contact the Building Inspector within 30 days of the occurrence of such change
and advise the Building Inspector in writing of those changes.
   (b)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any building owned by the
United States, the State of West Virginia, the City of Parsons, or any of their
respective agencies or political subdivisions.
   (c)   Violations and penalties for failure to register. The failure or
refusal for any reason, of any owner, or agent of an owner acting on behalf of
the owner, to register a vacant building upon adoption of this article or to
pay any fees required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this section,
within 30 days after they become due, shall constitute a violation punishable
upon conviction thereof by a fine in the amount of not less than $100 nor more
than $500 for each failure or refusal to pay a required vacant building fee, as
applicable. In such cases, whenever the minimum fine of $100 is imposed, it
shall not be subject to suspension or reduction for any reason.
§ 1121.11 REINSPECTION.
   All vacant structures are subject to reinspection on an annual basis or as
deemed necessary pursuant to §
1121.06 .
§ 1121.12 NON-PAYMENT OF FEES/LIENS.
   (a)   After the owner is given notice of the amount of the registration fee
due, except for those owners that have properly perfected an appeal pursuant to
§
1121.09 , and the owner fails to pay the amount due, said amount shall
constitute a debt due and owing to the city and the city may commence a civil
action to collect such unpaid debt.
   (b)   If an owner fails to pay the registration fee as assessed and the city
begins the collection action to enforce its lien, then the Code Enforcement
Officer shall post the written notice on the property and send the written
notice to the owner(s) by certified and regular mail.
   (c)   The city may take action to sell the subject property by means of
forfeiture and the court ordered enforcement process to collect the debt owed
the city. Should the city take the steps necessary to sell the subject
property, the city shall do so, subject to all liens and real and personal
property taxes that are due. Purchasers of the subject property shall be
similarly responsible for registration pursuant to this section in the same
manner as the prior owner and must begin the registration process anew if said
property remains vacant.
§ 1121.13 RELATION TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS.
   It is to be understood that the intent and purpose of this article is
separate and distinct from other parts and sections of the codified ordinances
of the city and the general laws of the state which may also be applicable. The
provisions of this section are applicable to the owners of such vacant
buildings as set forth herein and are in addition to and not in lieu of any and
all other applicable provisions of the City Code, and any other applicable
provisions of the city’s Municipal Code.
ARTICLE 1131: 911 ADDRESSING AND MAPPING
Section
   
1131.01   Applicability
   
1131.02   Coordination with County Addressing Program; adoption of Addressing
Program; penalties for non-compliance
   
1131.03   Appointment and duties of Addressing and Mapping Coordinators
   
1131.04   Interpretation and application.
§ 1131.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The provisions of this article apply to all areas of the city except
as may be expressly set forth below.
   (b)   Pursuant to the Emergency Rules of the West Virginia Statewide
Addressing and Mapping Board on file with the office of the Secretary of State,
Title 169, Series 2 of the Code of State Rules, the city hereby elects to
participate in the West Virginia Statewide Addressing and Mapping Project.
§ 1131.02 COORDINATION WITH COUNTY ADDRESSING PROGRAM; ADOPTION OF ADDRESSING
PROGRAM; PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (a)   All provisions of the 911 addressing and mapping ordinance of the
Tucker County Commission, dated May 13, 2003, including the penalties for non-
compliance, hereby apply within the city, as if fully set forth herein, except
as set forth in division (b) below.
   (b)   Nothing in this article affects existing city-type addresses, which
are satisfactory for 911 and emergency services purposes, provided that those
addresses are consistent with the Statewide Addressing and Mapping Project and
otherwise comply with the rules and regulations of the West Virginia Statewide
Addressing and Mapping Board.
§ 1131.03 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF ADDRESSING AND MAPPING COORDINATORS.
   (a)   The Tucker County Addressing Coordinator shall act as the Addressing
Coordinator for the city. The Addressing Coordinator may not, however, take any
official action not expressly authorized in this article or in the 911
addressing and mapping ordinance of the county, dated May 13, 2003, without the
approval of the City Council.
   (b)   The Tucker County Mapping Coordinator shall act as the Mapping
Coordinator for the city. The Mapping Coordinator may not, however, take any
official action not expressly authorized in this article or in the 911
Addressing and mapping ordinance of the county dated May 13, 2003, without the
approval of the City Council.
§ 1131.04 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   (a)   This article is to be interpreted and applied consistent with the West
Virginia Statewide Addressing and Mapping System.
   (b)   The Coordinator of the city shall make any necessary application to
the Statewide Addressing and Mapping Board for a waiver, or for local
modifications of the Statewide Addressing and Mapping System in order to tailor
it to this article.
ARTICLE 1141: ALTERNATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF EXTERNAL SANITATION AND COMMON
NUISANCES
Section
   
1141.01   Authority
   
1141.02   Purpose and applicability
   
1141.03   Investigations
   
1141.04   Issuance of citations
   
1141.05   Penalties
   
1141.06   Nonpayment of fines
   
1141.07   Appeal
§ 1141.01 AUTHORITY.
   This article is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to the city under
W. Va. Code 8-1-5a.
§ 1141.02 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (a)   The purpose of this section is to provide additional and alternative
methods and processes to enforce the provisions of the codified ordinances of
the city regarding exterior sanitation and common nuisances related to property
located within the city in a fair, speedy, and inexpensive manner, and to
improve compliance with such provisions. To the extent that this article
conflicts with an existing ordinance identified below, this Article 1141 shall
be controlling.
   (b)   This section shall be in addition to those methods and processes
otherwise contained in the codified ordinances of the city and shall be applied
at the discretion of the enforcement officer enforcing the provisions of this
section.
   (c)   This section shall apply to the following exterior sanitation and
common nuisance violations contained in the codified ordinances of the city:
      (1)   Prohibited nuisances (City Code §
1111.02 );
      (2)   Maintenance of premises (City Code §
1111.03 );
      (3)   Violations and penalties for Building Code (City Code §
1101.03 ); and
      (4)   Public health concerns.
   (d)   Any and all planning, building, and law enforcement officers shall
have authority to enforce the provisions of this section and shall be referred
to herein collectively as enforcement officials.
§ 1141.03 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon receipt of information indicating the likelihood of a violation of any
provision of the codified ordinances of the city regarding external sanitation
or common nuisance, the enforcement official shall investigate the facts and
may, to the extent permitted by law, make an inspection of the premises.
§ 1141.04 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   (a)   If an investigation reveals that a code violation exists, the
enforcement official may issue a citation for such violation to the person
having either ownership or control of any land, building, structure, sign,
property, licensed or permitted business, or operation which is in violation,
and shall order that violation to be corrected.
   (b)   A citation may be served by personal or substituted service in
accordance with the West Virginia Rules of Civil Procedure, either by
delivering the notice to the person in violation personally, or by delivering
the notice to a member of the person’s family who is above the age of 16 years
and by advising such person of the purpose of the citation. Proof of personal
service shall be made at the time of service by a written declaration executed
by the enforcement official effective service and shall declare the time, date,
and manner by which service was made. If personal service cannot be
effectuated, the enforcement official may send the citation to the person via
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person’s last known address.
If the return receipt is not returned, a citation shall be conclusively
presumed to have been served if it is also sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, which is not returned as undeliverable by the postal service.
   (c)   The citation shall be in writing and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The date the citation was issued;
      (2)   The name and address of the person(s) charged with the violation;
      (3)   The section of the ordinance that has been violated;
      (4)   The nature of the violation;
      (5)   The place and time the violation occurred;
      (6)   The amount of the fine imposed for the violation;
      (7)   The name, address, and telephone number of the enforcement official
issuing the citation;
      (8)   The time period allowed for the violation to be corrected. The time
period allowed shall take into consideration the threat posed by the violation
to the health, safety, and welfare of the public and the nature of the work
required to correct the violation, provided that no such time period for
correction shall be less than ten days; and
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the office of the City
Collector, where fines are to be paid, and of the Municipal Court, where
citations may be appealed.
§ 1141.05 PENALTIES.
   Any person issued a citation pursuant to §
1141.04  shall be punished by a fine as follows: within any 12-month period,
$100 for the first citation, $200 for the second citation, $300 for the third
citation, and $500 for each citation thereafter.
§ 1141.06 NONPAYMENT OF FINES.
   All fines imposed by citations under this section shall be due within ten
days of service of the citation. The failure to pay when due any fine imposed
under this article shall constitute a failure to appear or otherwise respond
under W. Va. Code 8-10-2b(c) and may result in notification to the Department
of Motor Vehicles.
§ 1141.07 APPEAL.
   (a)   Issuance of a citation under the provisions of this section shall be
deemed to be prima facie evidence of the violation indicated on the face of the
citation. As such, any person who is issued a citation shall pay the fine
indicated for the violation, as set forth in §
1141.05 , in full to the office of the Municipal Court Clerk within ten days of
the service of the citation. Any person alleging that he or she was improperly
issued such citation may, within ten days of service of such citation, file a
petition for appeal of the citation or payment thereof, along with the required
bond, with the Municipal Court Clerk in accordance with the following:
      (1)   In order to properly and timely appeal his or her or her citation,
within ten days of service of the citation, the alleged violator shall pay the
required amount of the applicable fine in full to the Municipal Court Clerk,
which amount will be held by the Municipal Court as bond pending evidentiary
hearing before, and resolution of the case by, the Municipal Court; the
Municipal Court Clerk shall issue a receipt to the alleged violator showing the
amount of the bond paid. In addition to the bond, the alleged violator shall
file with the Municipal Court Clerk a petition for appeal of the citation. If
any petition for appeal filed in accordance with this section is not timely
filed or is not accompanied with the required bond, the alleged violator shall
be deemed to have waived his or her right to appeal the citation, and such
petition shall be summarily denied as untimely filed; provided, however that
nothing set forth hereinabove shall prevent the Municipal Judge from finding,
upon proper application and showing, that an alleged violator suffers from a
financial hardship, and, as a result, waiving the requirement that the bond be
posted as a prerequisite to filing a petition for appeal.
      (2)   Any petition for appeal filed with the Municipal Court Clerk must
be in writing, on the form to be provided by the Municipal Court Clerk, and
must be signed by the alleged violator affirming that the contents of the
petition are true and accurate to the best of the alleged violator’s knowledge
at that time. Such petition for appeal shall state the facts and reasons in
support of the petition. Upon filing any such petition for appeal with the
Municipal Court Clerk, the alleged violator shall serve a copy of the petition
and the receipt showing proof of bond or waiver upon the City Attorney.
   (b)   Upon the filing of any petition for appeal with the Municipal Court
Clerk, the Clerk or his or her designee shall place the case on the Municipal
Court docket, set the case for evidentiary hearing within 30 days from the date
of the filing of the petition for appeal, provide a notice of hearing to the
alleged violator, and forward a copy of the petition to the enforcement
officer. Upon receipt of the petition, the enforcement office shall cause a
copy of the citation at issue to be forwarded to the Municipal Court Clerk who
shall file it as the original complaint alleging the violation indicated
therein.
   (c)   The Municipal Court shall treat the citation itself as the original
complaint before the court, and shall treat it as prima facie evidence of the
violation alleged therein. At the close of all of the evidence presented at the
hearing on the petition for appeal, should the Municipal Court Judge find
against the alleged violator, the bond posted by the alleged violator shall be
applied as payment for the fine imposed for the violation. In the event the
Municipal Court Judge finds that a violator suffers from financial hardship,
the Municipal Court Judge may permit alternative sentencing. Should the court
find in favor of the alleged violator, the bond shall be refunded to the
alleged violator by the Municipal Court Clerk, and the citation shall be
dismissed.
PART XIII: PLANNING AND ZONING CODE
[Reserved]
PART XV: FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Chapter
   
1501.   GENERAL FIRE PROTECTION REGULATIONS
   
1511.   WEST VIRGINIA FIRE CODE
CHAPTER 1501: GENERAL FIRE PROTECTION REGULATIONS
Section
   
1501.01   Attacking, hindering, or obstructing firefighter
   
1501.02   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
1501.05   Duty of spectators and authority of firemen and police
   
1501.06   Bonfires and other outdoor fires restricted
   
1501.07   Burning of waste materials
   
1501.08   Fires on property of others
   
1501.09   Maliciously setting fires
   
1501.10   Smoking restrictions
   
1501.11   Use of torches for removing paint and sweating pipe joints
   
1501.12   Hot ashes and other dangerous materials
   
1501.13   Accumulations of waste materials
   
1501.14   Handling readily combustible materials
   
1501.15   Storage of readily combustible materials
   
1501.17   Open flames or lights restricted
   
1501.18   Maintenance of chimneys, vents, heat producing appliances, and
exhaust systems
   
1501.19   Fireworks
   
1501.20   Administration and enforcement
   
1501.21   Conflict
   
1501.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Authority of local fire departments, see W. Va. Code 8-15-1 et seq., Ch. 29-
3A
   Municipal inspections, see W. Va. Code 8-12-15
§ 1501.01 ATTACKING, HINDERING, OR OBSTRUCTING FIREFIGHTER.
   (a)   No person shall intentionally obstruct, oppose, or hinder, or attempt
to obstruct, oppose, or hinder, or counsel, advise, or invite others to
obstruct, oppose, or to hinder the operation of any apparatus of the Fire
Department firefighter.
   (b)   Any person willfully violating any provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent law enforcement
officials from controlling traffic and otherwise maintaining order at the scene
of a fire.
§ 1501.02 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall obstruct, stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the law or
the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device or prevent or
delay access in any of the following places:
   (a)   Within 15 feet of, or otherwise obstruct, a fire hydrant shall be
prohibited at all times;
   (b)   Within 15 feet of, or otherwise obstruct, a Fire Department connection
(s) (FDC) shall be prohibited at all times;
   (c)   Parking of motor vehicles or otherwise obstruct any fire lanes shall
be prohibited at all times; or
   (d)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted.
§ 1501.05 DUTY OF SPECTATORS AND AUTHORITY OF FIREMEN AND POLICE.
   (a)   Every person present at the scene of a fire shall be subject and
obedient to the orders of any police officer or incident commander or designee
thereof there present regarding any matter regarding extinguishing of the fire,
the removal and protection of property, or the maintenance of order; and no
person present at the scene of any fire shall disobey any such lawful order of
any police officer or incident commander or designee thereof there present.
   (b)   Police officers present at the scene of any fire shall have power to
arrest any person for disobedience of the lawful order of a police officer or
firefighter given pursuant to this section and to hold the offender in custody
until the fire has been extinguished, at which time he or she shall be taken
before an appropriate judicial officer to be dealt with according to law.
§ 1501.06 BONFIRES AND OTHER OUTDOOR FIRES RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No person shall openly burn or to cause or permit to be openly burned
upon any property within the city any tires, tar paper, solid waste, garbage,
paper, or any other substance whatsoever; provided, that it shall not be
unlawful to burn charcoal for the purpose of outdoor cooking; provided further,
that it shall not be unlawful to burn a small open attended fire for protection
during an emergency situation; and provided further, open burning shall not be
used for waste disposal purposes. There shall be no burning of tree trunks,
stumps, and the like and the volume shall be of the minimum size for the
intended purpose. Vegetation to be burned shall be well dried for a minimum of
ten days, be piled so as to promote combustion, and have a ten-foot safety
strip around the fire. The fuel chosen shall minimize the generation and
emission of air contaminants. No open burning shall be conducted in windy or
extremely dry conditions. Open burning shall be confined to the period from 7:
00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., except during the periods between March 1 through May 31
and October 1 through December 31 when “open burning” shall be confined to the
period from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.; and the City Council may delegate to the
Fire Chief or designee thereof authority to issue such permits in the name of
the City Council; and it shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to
comply with any permit issued hereunder by the City Council or by the Fire
Chief or designee thereof in the name of the City Council. Applications for
open burning shall be submitted in writing at least ten days before the fire is
set unless during normal established times.
   (b)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or
authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained unless:
      (1)   The location shall not be less than 50 feet from any structure and
adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet of
any structure; no bonfire or rubbish fire shall be kindled or maintained on any
part of the streets, sidewalks, public squares, or other public places in the
city.
   (c)   Any open burning shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until such fire is extinguished. Fire extinguishing tools and materials shall
be available for immediate use.
   (d)   Any police officer, the Fire Chief or designee thereof shall prohibit
burning which will be offensive or objectionable due to smoke or odor emissions
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
Any police officer, the Fire Chief or designee thereof shall order the
extinguishment, by the permit holder or the Fire Department, of any open
burning which creates or adds to a hazardous or objectionable situation.
§ 1501.07 BURNING OF WASTE MATERIALS.
   No person during construction or demolition of buildings or structures shall
dispose of any waste materials or rubbish by burning on the premises or in the
immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit or other proper
authorization from the Fire Chief or designee thereof and the safety provisions
of §
1501.06 shall be applicable to any fire authorized by the Fire Chief or
designee thereof. Permits will be handled by WV DNR only.
§ 1501.08 FIRES ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any fire upon the property of another
without authority of the owner of such property, nor shall any person willfully
or through neglect permit any fire on his or her own property to spread to the
property of another.
§ 1501.09 MALICIOUSLY SETTING FIRES.
   No person shall maliciously set fire to any woods, fence, grass, straw, or
other substance or liquid capable of spreading fire on lands within the city.
§ 1501.10 SMOKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   SMOKING shall mean and include the carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar,
cigarette, tobacco, marijuana, or other substance in any form.
   (b)   Where conditions are such regarding make smoking a hazard in any areas
of warehouses, stores, industrial plants, institutions, places of assembly, and
in open spaces where combustible materials are stored or handled, the Fire
Chief or designee thereof is empowered and authorized to order the owner or
occupant in writing to post “No Smoking” signs in each building, structure,
room, or place in which smoking shall be prohibited.
   (c)   “No Smoking” signs of approved sized lettering and location required
in accordance with division (b) above shall read “By Order of the Fire Chief”.
   (d)   No person shall remove any legally required “ No Smoking” sign or to
smoke in any place where such signs are posted.
   (e)   Restrictions will follow the county smoking policy as presented by
County Health Department.
§ 1501.11 USE OF TORCHES FOR REMOVING PAINT AND SWEATING PIPE JOINTS.
   (a)   Any person using a torch or other flame producing device for removing
paint from any building or structure shall provide one fire extinguisher, of a
type approved by the Fire Chief or designee thereof, or water hose connected to
a water supply in the area where such burning is done. In all cases, a fire
watcher shall remain on the premises for one hour after the torch or flame
producing device has been used.
   (b)   Any person using a torch or other flame producing device for sweating
pipe joints in any building or structure shall have available in the immediate
vicinity where the sweating is done one such approved fire extinguisher or
water hose connected to a water supply. Combustible material in the close
proximity of flame shall be protected against ignition by shielding, wetting,
or other approved means. In all cases, a fire watcher shall remain in the
vicinity of the sweating operation for one-half hour after the torch or flame
producing device has been used.
§ 1501.12 HOT ASHES AND OTHER DANGEROUS MATERIALS.
   No person shall deposit hot ashes or cinders, or smoldering coals, or greasy
or oily substances liable to spontaneous ignition, into any combustible
receptacle, or place the same within ten feet of any combustible materials,
except in metal or other noncombustible receptacles. Such receptacles, unless
resting on a noncombustible floor or on the ground outside the building, shall
be placed on noncombustible stands, and in every case shall be kept at least
two feet away from any combustible wall or partition or exterior window
opening.
§ 1501.13 ACCUMULATIONS OF WASTE MATERIALS.
   No person shall fail to keep roofs, courts, yards, sidewalks, alleys, vacant
lots, and open spaces free and clear of deposits or accumulations of waste
paper, hay, grass, straw, weeds, litter, or combustible waste or rubbish of any
kind. All weeds, grass, vines, or other growth, when same endangers property,
or is liable to be fired, shall be cut down and removed by the owner or
occupant of the property.
§ 1501.14 HANDLING READILY COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person making, using, storing, or having in charge or under his or her
control any shavings, excelsior, rubbish, sacks, bags, litter, hay, straw, or
combustible waste materials shall fail or neglect at the close of each day to
cause all such material which is not compactly baled and stacked in an orderly
manner to be removed from the building or stored in suitable vaults or in metal
or metal lined, covered receptacles or bins. The city shall require suitable
baling presses to be installed in stores, apartment buildings, factories, and/
similar places where accumulations of paper and waste materials are not removed
at least every/second day.
§ 1501.15 STORAGE OF READILY COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (a)   Generally. No person shall keep or permit to be kept on any premises
owned or occupied by him or her any oily waste and oily rags, unless at all
times, when not actually in use, such oily waste and oily rags be kept in a
metal can with self-closing cover and riveted joints.
   (b)   When permit required. No person shall store in any building or upon
any premises in excess of 2,500 cubic feet gross volume of combustible empty
packing cases, boxes, barrels, or similar containers, or rubber tires, or baled
cotton, rubber, or cork, or other similarly combustible material without a
written permit from the city.
   (c)   Storage requirements.
      (1)   Aisles with a minimum width of 24 inches shall be provided every 15
feet for indoor storage; they shall not be dead end, and they shall line up
with exits where possible.
      (2)   The storage of readily combustible items shall not be stored within
a closet or room housing an open flame heater, or open flame water heater,
unless the materials are contained in a metal riveted joint container with
tight-fitting lid.
      (3)   No flammable liquids or equipment and machinery containing
flammable liquids shall be stored in any path of egress including aisles,
stairways, hallways, and vestibules.
      (4)   Storage in buildings shall be orderly, shall not be within two feet
of the ceiling, shall be separated from heaters or heating devices by distance
or shielding so that ignition cannot occur, and not so located regarding
endanger exit from the building. Storage in the open shall not be more than 20
feet in height, shall be so located, with respect to adjacent buildings, as not
to constitute a hazard, and shall be compact and orderly.
§ 1501.17 OPEN FLAMES OR LIGHTS RESTRICTED.
   (a)   No person shall take an open flame or light into any building, barn,
or any other place where highly flammable, combustible, or explosive material
is kept, unless such light or flame shall be well secured in a glass globe,
wire mesh cage, or similar approved device.
   (b)   No heating or lighting apparatus or equipment capable of igniting
flammable material of the type stored or handled shall be used in the storage
area of any warehouse storing rags, excelsior, hair, or other highly flammable
or combustible material; nor in the work area of any shop or factory used for
the manufacture, repair, or renovating of mattresses or bedding; nor in the
work areas of any establishment used for the upholstering of furniture.
§ 1501.18 MAINTENANCE OF CHIMNEYS, VENTS, HEAT PRODUCING APPLIANCES, AND
EXHAUST SYSTEMS.
   (a)   Chimneys, flues, or similar devices for conveying products of
combustion or hot gases to the exterior of the building shall be maintained in
a manner as not to create a hazardous condition.
      (1)   Existing masonry chimneys which, upon inspection, are found to be
without flue liner and with open mortar joints which will permit smoke or gases
to be discharged into the building, or which are cracked regarding be dangerous
shall be made safe by means of a fire clay liner, fire brick, a corrosion-
resistant metal pipe, and otherwise repaired, if necessary, or the chimney
shall be removed. Metal pipe liners shall be one inch less in diameter than the
least dimension of the flue and entire space between the metal liner and the
walls of the chimney filled with cement mortar. Lining with an approved triple
wall metal pipe shall waive the need to fill all voids between pipe and flue
with cement mortar provided that the pipe is properly installed and sealed at
the bottom to prevent gases from rising up the flue on the outside of the flue
pipe.
      (2)   Existing chimneys and vents of metal which are corroded or
improperly supported shall be replaced, unless suitable repairs are made.
      (3)   Existing chimney and vent connectors of metal which are corroded or
improperly supported shall be replaced.
   (b)   All heat producing appliances, including boilers, furnaces,
incinerators, ovens, and restaurant type cooking appliances shall be installed
and maintained in an approved manner.
   (c)   Exhaust systems provided for restaurant cooking equipment shall be
maintained in a manner such as not to create a hazardous condition.
      (1)   Hoods, grease removal devices, fans, ducts, and other devices shall
be inspected periodically and cleaned as needed to remove grease and deposits
of residues.
      (2)   Fire extinguishing systems shall be inspected periodically and
checked for proper operation. These inspections shall include a check that the
supply of extinguishing agent in the system is adequate, and all actuation
components are operating satisfactorily. Fusible links, if employed, shall be
replaced or properly cleaned. Instructions for manually operating the system
shall be posted conspicuously in the kitchen and employees checked for their
knowledge of procedures.
      (3)   Any fire dampers shall be tested periodically to ensure proper
functioning of all parts.
   (d)   Commercial, industrial, and flue-fed incinerators shall be provided
with approved spark arrestors or other effective means for arresting sparks and
fly ash.
§ 1501.19 FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Fireworks shall be in accordance with the W. Va. Code.
   (b)   Special occasions with a permit shall cost $10. The fireworks permit
shall be allowed for three days, but the permit can only be used on one of the
three days.
   (c)   Fireworks are not allowed to be used in the city limits with the
exception of December 30 through January 2 and July 3 through July 5 or the
designated timeframe.
§ 1501.20 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Generally. The provisions of this article shall be administered and
enforced by the city and any other person authorized to enforce the provisions
of this article by and under the supervision and direction of the Fire Chief or
designee thereof has the authority to enforce all ordinances of the city having
to do with:
      (1)   Prevention of fire;
      (2)   The storage, sale, and use of any explosive, combustible, or other
dangerous article or articles in solid, flammable liquid, or gas form;
      (3)   The installation and maintenance of equipment of all sorts intended
to extinguish, detect, and control fires;
      (4)   The means and adequacy of exit, in case of fire, from buildings and
all other places in which persons work, live, or congregate, from time to time,
for any purpose, except buildings used wholly as dwelling houses for no more
than two families;
      (5)   The suppression of arson; and
      (6)   Any other thing necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this article including, but not limited to, confiscating any materials,
chemicals, items, or personal property owned, possessed, or used in direct
violation of the city’s Fire Prevention Code.
   (b)   Enforcement of rules and ordinances. The Fire Chief or designee
thereof and any other person authorized to enforce the provisions of this
article by and under the supervision and direction of the this Fire Chief or
designee thereof shall enforce the rules and ordinances as authorized by this
article.
   (c)   Inspections generally. The Fire Chief or designee thereof and any
other person authorized to enforce the provisions of this article under the
supervision and direction of the Fire Chief or designee thereof shall inspect
all structures and facilities, other than one- and two-family dwelling houses,
subject to this article, including, but not limited to, state, county, and
municipally owned institutions, all public and private schools, health care
facilities, theaters, churches, and other places of public assembly to
determine whether the structures or facilities are in compliance with the
city’s Fire Prevention Code.
   (d)   Right of entry. The Fire Chief or designee thereof and any other
person authorized to enforce the provisions of this article under the
supervision and direction of the Fire Chief or designee thereof may, at all
reasonable hours, enter any building or premises, other than one- and two-
family dwelling houses, for the purpose of making an inspection which he or she
may consider necessary under the provisions of this article. The Fire Chief or
designee thereof may enter upon any property, or enter any building, structure,
or premises, including one- and two-family dwelling houses during construction
and prior to occupancy, for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the
conditions set forth in any permit or license issued by the office of the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to W. Va. Code 29-3-12b(a)(1) or 29- 3A-1.
   (e)   Citations for violations. Violations for which citations may be issued
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overcrowding places of public assembly;
      (2)   Locked or blocked exits in public areas;
      (3)   Failure to abate a fire hazard;
      (4)   Blocking of fire lanes or Fire Department connections (FDC); or
      (5)   Tampering with, or rendering inoperable, except during necessary
maintenance or repairs, on-premise firefighting equipment, fire detection
equipment, or fire alarms systems.
   (f)   Issuance of citations for fire and life safety violations. The Fire
Chief or designee thereof and any other person authorized to enforce the
provisions of this article under the supervision and direction of the Fire
Chief or designee thereof are hereby authorized to issue citations, within the
corporate limits of the city, for fire and life safety violations of the city’s
Fire Prevention Code; provided, that a summary report of all citations issued
pursuant to this section by persons authorized under this section shall be
forwarded monthly to the Fire Chief or designee thereof in such form and
containing information including, but not limited to, the violation for which
the citation was issued, the citation number, the date of issuance, the name of
the person issuing the citation, and the name of the person to whom the
citation was issued. The Fire Chief or designee thereof may at any time revoke
the authorization of a person authorized by this division (f) of this section
to issue citations.
   (g)   Required liability coverage. No person authorized pursuant to division
(b) above may be authorized to issue a citation until evidence of liability
coverage of such person has been provided by the city.
§ 1501.21 CONFLICT.
   In the event of a conflict between any provision of this article with any
statute of the state or any rule, regulation, or order of the State Fire
Commission promulgated or given pursuant to statute, the statute, rule,
regulation, or order shall prevail.
§ 1501.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person who is violates any of the provisions of this article for
which another penalty is not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon a first conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of $100; upon a second
conviction within one year thereafter such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of $250; upon a third or subsequent
conviction within one year thereafter such person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of $500.
   (b)   Each and every day during which any violation of the provisions of
this article continues after knowledge or official notice that same is illegal
is a separate offense.
CHAPTER 1511: WEST VIRGINIA FIRE CODE
Section
   
1511.01   Adopted; purpose; copies
   
1511.02   Unvented heaters
   
1511.03   National standards and codes
   
1511.04   Sprinkler protection and area limitations
   
1511.05   Carpet used as floor covering
   
1511.06   Maintenance of fire hazard
   
1511.07   Interference with fire protection equipment
   
1511.08   Fire alarm systems
   
1511.09   Exit inspections and public life safety announcements
   
1511.10   Orders and decisions of the Fire Chief or designee thereof; appeals
   
1511.11   Forest fire season
   
1511.12   License for electrical work
   
1511.13   NICET certification for fire protection and fire alarm systems
   
1511.14   Residential board and care occupancies
   
1511.15   Storage of DOT classified fireworks wholesale distributors
   
1511.16   Crossing fire hose
   
1511.18   Explosives amendment to NFPA 495, Explosive Materials Code
   
1511.19   Propane gas training program certification
   
1511.20   Administration and enforcement
   
1511.21   Duration of permits; permit fees
   
1511.22   Modifications
   
1511.23   Appeals; injunctions
   
1511.24   Violations
   
1511.25   Conflicts of law
   
1511.26   Updating provisions
 
   
1511.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Adoption by reference, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4
§ 1511.01 ADOPTED; PURPOSE; COPIES.
   (a)   Fire Code adopted. There is hereby adopted by the City Council, for
the purpose of prescribing regulations for the safeguarding and for the
governing of conditions hazardous to life and property from the hazards of fire
and explosion, that certain code known as 87CSR1, Title 87, Legislative Rule
West Virginia State Fire Commission, Series 1 Fire Code (State of WV Fire
Code), being particularly the July 1, 2010 abbreviated edition thereof and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended by this Article 1511. Fire Prevention Code, a copy of
which code shall remain on file in the office of the City Recorder and shall
there be available to the public for inspection and use during all regular
business hours; and such code is hereby incorporated in and made part of this
section as fully as though it were set out herein at length; and from the date
on which this City Code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the City of Parsons. The code adopted by this
section shall be known and may be cited as the Fire Prevention Code.
   (b)   Exemption. This Fire Prevention Code has no application to personal
care homes caring for three or less patients or building(s) used wholly as
dwelling house(s) for no more than two families; and has no application to farm
structure(s); provided, however, that farm structure(s):
      (1)   Used for group sleeping accommodations for farm workers; or
      (2)   Used for educational, health care, assembly, or detention/
correctional occupancy are not exempt from the requirements of this Fire
Prevention Code.
   (c)   Incorporation of other documents. This Fire Prevention Code does not
include a reprinting of all the requirements imposed by statute or by the
incorporation of various National Standards and Codes cited in §
1511.03. For ascertaining these additional standards and requirements it is
necessary to make reference to these other documents.
§ 1511.02 UNVENTED HEATERS.
   All unvented fuel fired heaters are prohibited for all occupancies except
one- and two-family dwellings; provided, that a single unvented fuel fired
heater is permitted for demonstration purposes in authorized mercantile
applications when installed in accordance with manufacturers recommendations.
The single heater shall be connected to a permanent source of fuel and shall
not be used as a permanent or alternate source of heating. The unvented heater
shall be shut off at the end of each business day.
§ 1511.03 NATIONAL STANDARDS AND CODES.
   (a)   Incorporating of national standards and codes. The standards and
requirements as set out and established by the 2009 edition of “The National
Fire Codes” published by the National Fire Protection Association (but not
including standards and requirements directed to the operation of local fire
departments, NFPA 5000, NFPA 900, and NFPA 101A) and have the same force and
effect as if set out verbatim in this rule and are hereby adopted and
promulgated by the City Council as part of the City Fire Prevention Code. The
Fire Chief or designee thereof shall make use of the standards and requirements
within the incorporated publications in all matters coming under his or her
jurisdiction. A copy of The National Fire Codes has been filed with the City
Recorder and a copy of the Table of Contents of that publication is included in
Appendix A of this ordinance. Information regarding the purchase of The
National Fire Codes or separate volumes of the Codes may be obtained by writing
to the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Quincy,
Massachusetts 02269.
   (b)   Modification of fireworks display rule. The “Rule of the State Fire
Marshal For The Display of Fireworks” as contained in N.F.P.A. 1123 and 1126 of
the 2006 edition of The National Fire Codes has the same force and effect and
controls the display of fireworks as if set out verbatim in this article and is
hereby adopted and promulgated by the City Council as a part of the Fire
Prevention Code, but with Subdivisions 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 changed to read as
follows.
      (1)   4.2.1. Upon receipt of the application at least 15 days in advance
of the date set for this display, the Chief of the Fire Department shall make,
or cause to be made, an investigation of the site of the proposed display for
the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this article are complied
with in the case of the particular display. He or she shall confer with the
Chief of the Police Department, or the County Sheriff if the site for the
proposed display is to be outside the limits of a municipality, about the
application and whether issuance of a permit would be consistent with public
safety. If a display is properly lawful, the Chief of Police or the County
Sheriff, if the site of the proposed display is outside the limits of a
municipality and the Chief of Fire Department shall together endorse the
application, stating that they approve the display as being in conformance with
all parts of the law and with this ordinance. Failure to approve the
application by both the Fire Chief or designee thereof and Police Chief or
County Sheriff is sufficient cause for the State Fire Marshal to deny a permit.
      (2)   4.2.2. The application, following endorsement by the Chiefs of the
Fire and Police Departments or County Sheriff shall be sent to the State Fire
Marshal who shall then, upon receipt of evidence of financial responsibility as
required by law in such cases, issue a non-transferable permit authorizing the
display.
   (c)   Table of contents. The National Fire Codes as published by National
Fire Protection Association are adopted by this article and are set forth in
Appendix A of the ordinance codified herein.
§ 1511.04 SPRINKLER PROTECTION AND AREA LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Approved automatic sprinkler systems in accordance with the applicable
NFPA Standard for Sprinkler Systems will be installed in all new buildings used
for any occupancy, exceeding the area limitations noted in Appendix B of the
ordinance codified herein. Sprinkler protections for occupancies covered by
division (b) hereof are required to provide sprinkler protection regardless of
area limitations.
   (b)   Sprinkler protection (certain occupancies) include the following.
      (1)   All nursing, convalescent, old age, custodial care, and long term
or extended care homes or institutions, existing and new, regardless of the
type of construction, shall have a complete automatic sprinkler protection in
accordance with Standard 13 contained within the National Fire Codes and
incorporated by reference in §
1511.03.
      (2)   Homes or institutions caring for more than three patients shall
meet the requirements of this section.
      (3)   All new correctional or detention facilities as defined in the Life
Safety Code shall be protected throughout with a complete automatic sprinkler
system in accordance with NFPA-13, Standard for Sprinkler Systems.
   (c)   The State Fire Marshal will enforce the code.
§ 1511.05 CARPET USED AS FLOOR COVERING.
   (a)   Flammability requirements for carpet used as floor covering.
      (1)   In institutional, health care, educational, and penal occupancies,
carpet shall meet a minimum value of 0.45 watts per square centimeter in all
corridors and exits. Carpet in all other areas shall meet a minimum value of
0.22 watts per square centimeter.
      (2)   Flammability requirements for carpet used as floor covering in all
other occupancies shall meet a minimum value of 0.22 watts per square
centimeter in all corridors and exits.
      (3)   Any pad used under the carpet shall meet the minimum class of the
carpet installed.
      (4)   The values shall be determined by NFPA 253, Critical Radiant Flux
of Floor Covering Systems.
   (b)   Smoke generation properties of carpet used as floor covering.
      (1)   In all occupancies smoke generation shall not exceed a maximum
value of Dm=450 (flaming mode).
      (2)   The value shall be determined by ASTIM E-662, Specific Optical
Density of Smoke Generation by Solid Materials.
      (3)   All test data for determining the flammability and smoke properties
of carpets shall be conducted by a nationally recognized laboratory as
certified by the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program.
      (4)   Where an approved, automatic sprinkler system is installed and all
floors are non- combustible, Class II carpet is permitted in any location where
Class I carpet is required. Where an approved automatic sprinkler system is
installed and all floors are noncombustible and Class II carpet is permitted,
no rating is required.
§ 1511.06 MAINTENANCE OF FIRE HAZARD.
   Whenever the Fire Chief or designee thereof, by and through persons working
under his or her direction, determines based upon the Fire Prevention Code and/
or on the experience and knowledge applied in the operation of his or her
office:
   (a)   Any building or structure has been constructed, altered, or repaired
in a manner violating the Fire Prevention Code as promulgated prior to the
commencement of the construction, alterations, or repairs;
   (b)   Any building or structure is being maintained or used in such a way as
to endanger life or property from the hazards of fire or explosion;
   (c)   Any building or other structure or property of any kind, which, for
want of repairs, or by reason of its age, dilapidated, or abandoned condition
or for any other reason constitutes a fire hazard and is located or constructed
so as to constitute a danger to other buildings, property, persons, life, or
limb; or
   (d)   (1)   In any building or upon any premises there is located any
combustible, flammable, or explosive substance or material or other condition
dangerous to the safety of persons occupying the building or premises and
adjacent premises and property, the Fire Chief or designee thereof shall order
the condition or thing to be corrected, or combustible, flammable, or
explosive, items to be removed, or the building or buildings to be repaired,
closed to occupants, or removed, as required by the circumstances. The order
shall be promptly complied with by the owner, agent, occupant, and lessee of
the premises, place, property, or thing.
      (2)   Any order may be expressed in the alternative (e.g., allowing
repair but on the failure to repair requiring demolition). Any order by the
Fire Chief or designee thereof which concludes that a fire hazard exists, shall
state what repairs and/or demolition must be accomplished, and that compliance
must be completed within 30 days of issuance.
      (3)   In the event of noncompliance, the Fire Chief or designee thereof
is authorized by ordinance to enter into and upon the premises affected by the
order and cause the building, structure, premises, or thing to be repaired, or
torn down, materials removed, and all dangerous conditions remedied (as the
case may be) at the expense of the owner, and shall advise that the order can
be contested by entering an appeal to the City Council.
§ 1511.07 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall render any portable or fixed fire extinguishing system or
device or any fire warning system inoperative or inaccessible except as may be
necessary during emergencies, maintenance, drills, or prescribed testing.
§ 1511.08 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (a)   General requirements for all occupancies. The following requirements
apply in addition to NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, Chapter 9, and Section 9.6 as
adopted by this article.
      (1)   All fire alarm systems, including all components, shall be
electrically supervised. Components include pull stations, automatic detection,
audio visual devices, flow switches, tamper switches and the main panel.
      (2)   All fire alarm systems shall be tied in ahead of the main power
disconnect, unless a secondary power source is provided.
      (3)   All sprinkler systems OS & Y, P.I.V., and other control valves
shall be electrically supervised and tied into the trouble/supervisory side of
the fire alarm control panel.
      (4)   All sprinkler systems shall be tied in so water flow will activate
the general fire alarm audio visual device.
      (5)   Flow and/or pressure switches shall be annunciated separately on
the main fire alarm control panel.
      (6)   All health care and detention and correctional occupancies shall be
tied into a fire department or a communication center with 24-hour supervision
which is responsible for receiving emergency calls.
      (7)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems (HVAC).
         A.   All heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems greater
than 2000 CFM and less than 15,000 CFM shall have a duct type smoke detector in
the return air duct or plenum for automatic shut down, to close main fan
dampers, and to sound a general fire alarm when activated.
         B.   All heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems greater
than 15,000 CFM shall have duct type smoke detectors installed in both supply
and return air ducts to automatically shut down, close main fan dampers, and to
sound a general fire alarm when activated.
         C.   Health care, and detention and correctional occupancies and high
rise buildings duct detectors shall be zoned to indicate the specific air
handling unit at the main fire alarm panel.
         D.   An HVAC unit which uses 100% of outside air does not require duct
detectors, and shall shut down upon fire alarm activation.
         E.   HVAC systems used as part of the smoke management systems are
exempt from the requirements of this division (a)(7).
      (8)   Audible alarm indicating devices shall be of such character and
distributed so as to be effectively heard above the ambient noise level
obtained under normal conditions of occupancy. Audible alarm indicating devices
shall produce signals that are distinctive from audible signals used for other
purposes in the same building.
      (9)   Visual signal devices shall be provided in all new fire alarm
systems.
      (10)   Pre-recorded or live voice evacuation instructions to occupants
are permitted. Pre-recorded instructions shall be preceded by not less than
five seconds or more than ten seconds of a continuous alerting signal. Upon
completion or failure of pre-recorded instructions, the fire alarm evacuation
signal shall sound. Pre-recorded instructions shall be repeated two or more
times. Live voice instructions shall be permitted to interrupt the pre-recorded
message or the fire alarm evacuation signal. Audible and visual fire alarm
devices shall be used only for fire alarm system.
      (11)   Manual pull stations shall be located no greater than 200 feet
from each other and at all exits. Manual pull stations shall be of the same
general operational type.
      (12)   Thermal detectors are required in the following areas in all
occupancies requiring a fire alarm system and as listed or identified in NFPA
101, The Life Safety Code. Thermal detectors are not required in areas provided
with sprinkler protection or dwelling units of apartments.
 
Areas                                                    Type of Detectors
1. Attic and cockloft spaces                             Fixed temperature
2. Storage rooms                                         Rate of rise
3. Furnace or boiler rooms                               Fixed temperature
4. Janitor closets                                       Rate of rise
5. Kitchens                                              Fixed temperature
6. Laboratories, home economics, woodworking shops, auto Rate of rise
shops, utility rooms, and locker rooms
 
      (13)   Smoke detectors are required in the following areas in all
occupancies requiring fire alarm systems:
         A.   Rooms and/or areas dedicated for the location of electrical
distribution panels or transformers;
         B.   Stages or platforms; and
         C.   On each side of required smoke partition doors.
      (14)   Smoke detectors shall be placed a maximum of 15 feet from ends of
corridors or walls and 30 feet on center and in rooms open to the corridors,
where required by the occupancy. Exceeding the spacing requirements will
require submission of technical data approved by the State Fire Marshal.
Exception: smoke beam detectors shall be permitted in accordance with
manufacturers specifications.
      (15)   A building or structure being used for more than one occupancy
shall comply with the fire alarm system requirements of the most stringent
occupancy for that building or structure.
      (16)   Hood suppression systems shall be connected to the fire alarm
system and separately zoned.
      (17)   A pre-signal fire alarm system is not permitted.
      (18)   Elevators shall comply with NFPA 72.
   (b)   Requirements for educational and day care occupancies.
      (1)   A fire alarm system is required in every educational and day care
occupancy, and shall meet the requirements and standards of this rule; however,
classroom buildings of less than 2,500 square feet gross floor area with direct
exiting to the outside from each classroom are not required to have a fire
alarm system.
      (2)   Open plan classroom concepts require a complete smoke detection
system throughout the facility.
      (3)   Day care centers located in buildings other than educational
facilities shall have smoke detectors installed on the ceilings of each story
in front of the doors to the stairways and at no greater than 30 feet spacing
in the corridors of all floors occupied by the center. Detectors shall also be
installed in lounges and sleeping rooms in the center.
      (4)   Group day care centers require hardwired smoke detectors in
sleeping rooms and corridors. Audio visual warning devices are required if
hearing impaired individuals are in the facility. In mixed occupancies when
exiting requires the use of a common corridor, an electrically supervised fire
alarm system shall be installed.
      (5)   An annunciator panel or fire alarm control panel shall be readily
accessible to local fire department personnel.
      (6)   Rate of rise thermal detectors are required in all restrooms in new
buildings except in fully sprinklered buildings.
      (7)   Smoke detectors shall be installed in all corridors, except in a
single story building with direct exiting to the exterior by the means of a
door from every normally student occupied room.
      (8)   An inspection tag shall be attached to each fire protection system
near the main control valve, main panel, or other such appropriate and visible
location as determined by the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ). The
inspection tag shall contain the following information:
         A.   The individual performing the work;
         B.   Date of the test; and
         C.   Results of the inspection and test.
   (c)   Requirements for assembly occupancy.
      (1)   A fire alarm system is required in every place of assembly where:
         A.   Occupancy is subject to 300 or more occupants;
         B.   Occupancy is subject to 100 or more occupants above or below the
level of exit discharge;
         C.   The building is two or more stories in height above the level of
exit discharge, or two or more stories below the level of exit discharge; or
         D.   Theaters with more than one audience-viewing room.
      (2)   Annunciator panels and/or fire alarm control panels shall be
readily accessible to Fire Department personnel.
      (3)   Theaters and auditoriums shall provide audio visual devices. House
lights in auditoriums and theaters shall be activated by the fire alarm system.
   (d)   Requirements for health care and ambulatory care occupancies.
      (1)   A fire alarm system is required in every health care and ambulatory
care occupancy, and the system shall meet the requirements and standards of
this article.
      (2)   An approved automatic smoke detection system shall be installed in
all corridors.
      (3)   Manual pull stations shall be installed every 50 feet throughout
the facility in patient sleeping room areas starting at the end of all
corridors. All other manual pull stations shall be placed in accordance with
the general requirements of this occupancy.
      (4)   Fire alarm systems shall have annunciators located at all 24-hour
nurse’s stations, the telephone switchboard, and at the main location of the
Fire Department’s entry.
   (e)   Requirements for detention and correctional occupancies.
      (1)   A fire alarm system is required in every detention and correctional
occupancy and the system shall meet the requirements and standards as provided
in this division (e).
      (2)   The annunciator panel or fire alarm control panel shall be readily
accessible to Fire Department personnel and shall also be provided in the
detention or correctional facility control center.
      (3)   Manual pull stations shall be provided as set forth in general
requirements of this rule. Manual pull stations may be of the security type in
detention or correctional occupancies.
      (4)   Smoke detectors shall be installed in all corridors. If no corridor
exists, they shall be installed at the highest point of the cell areas.
      (5)   Dormitory style correctional facilities shall comply with the
Residential requirements of division (f) hereof.
   (f)   Requirements for residential occupancies.
      (1)   A fire alarm system is required for each of the groups of
residential buildings, and the system shall meet the requirements and standards
of this article.
      (2)   Lodging and rooming houses protected throughout with a sprinkler
system shall be provided with interconnected hardwired smoke detectors as
required by NFPA 72.
      (3)   Residential occupancies are designated in two groups. These
designated groups shall comply with the requirements of this article. One group
of occupancies includes hotels, motels, dormitories, and lodging and rooming
houses. The other group includes apartments only.
      (4)   The following requirements apply to the occupancies of hotels,
motels, dormitories, and lodging and rooming houses.
         A.   Smoke detectors shall be placed a maximum of 15 feet from ends of
corridors or walls and located 30 feet on center throughout all inside
corridors. Smoke detectors shall be placed a maximum of 15 feet from ends of
walls and 30 feet on center in open bay sleeping areas.
         B.   The annunciator panel or fire alarm control panel shall be
readily accessible to Fire Department personnel and also shall be located at
the registration desk.
         C.   All sleeping rooms and living areas in suites shall have an
approved self-contained smoke alarm hard wired in accordance with NFPA 72,
National Fire Alarm Code.
         D.   Motels and hotels having direct exterior exiting shall have a
manual pull station every 75 feet located on exterior walls with the minimum
requirement of one manual pull station; however, a one-story motel with 16 or
less sleeping rooms having direct exiting to the exterior is not required to be
provided with a fire alarm system.
      (5)   The following requirements apply to apartments.
         A.   Apartment buildings having 12 or more units or four or more
stories in height shall have a fire alarm system. Smoke detectors shall be
placed a maximum of 15 feet from the ends of corridors and walls and 30 feet on
centers.
         B.   All existing apartments shall have approved self-contained smoke
alarm located at the entrances to bedrooms.
         C.   All new apartments shall have an approved self-contained smoke
alarm hard wired in accordance with NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code.
         D.   All new apartment buildings having 12 or more units or four or
more stories in height with direct exiting to the exterior shall have manual
pull stations every 75 feet on the exterior wall with a minimum requirement of
one pull station per building.
   (g)   Requirements for mercantile occupancies.
      (1)   A fire alarm system is required in every mercantile occupancy over
3,000 square feet, and the system shall meet the requirements and standards as
provided in this division (g).
      (2)   If an existing Class B mercantile occupancy has a complete and
approved sprinkler protection system, a fire alarm system is not required.
   (h)   Requirements for business occupancies. A fire alarm system is required
in every business occupancy where:
      (1)   The occupancy is subject to 300 or more total occupants;
      (2)   The occupancy is subject to 100 or more occupants above or below
the level of exit discharge; or
      (3)   The building is two or more stories in height above the level of
exit discharge or two or more stories below the level of exit discharge.
   (i)   Requirements for industrial occupancies. A fire alarm system is
required in all industrial occupancies as required in the National Fire Codes
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, referred to in § 8-25 of this ordinance.
   (j)   Requirements for storage occupancies. A fire alarm system is required
in all storage occupancies as required in the National Fire Codes NFPA 101,
Life Safety Code, referred to in §
1511.03.
§ 1511.09 EXIT INSPECTIONS AND PUBLIC LIFE SAFETY ANNOUNCEMENTS.
   (a)   Inspection of exits. Not more than 90 minutes prior to the scheduled
commencement of any non- continuous activity, event, performance, show,
meeting, function, or other occasion for which people will gather in a place of
assembly, the owner or his or her designee pursuant to written authority,
instructions, or procedures shall inspect every required exit, way of approach
to an exit, and way of departure from an exit. If the inspection reveals that
any required means of egress is obstructed, inaccessible, locked, fastened, or
otherwise unsuited for immediate use, the scheduled program shall not begin,
nor shall admittance to the place of assembly be permitted, until necessary
corrective action has been completed.
   (b)   Announcements. Immediately prior to the start of a program for which
300 or more people will gather in a place of assembly, the owner or his or her
authorized agent shall orally notify all attendees concerning the location of
the exits to be used in case of fire or other emergency.
   (c)   Records. An accurate record of all inspections, corrections, and
notifications shall be kept and retained for at least two years in the offices
of the respective building owners. The records shall contain:
      (1)   A brief description of each activity, event, performance, and the
like, including its date, time, and location;
      (2)   The name and signature of the person who performed each requirement
of this section; and
      (3)   The date and time when each requirement was performed.
   (d)   Alternatives. In case of practical difficulty or undue hardship or in
which compliance would not significantly increase life safety, the Fire Chief
or designee thereof, by and through persons working under his or her direction,
may approve or accept alternative means of accomplishing the objectives of this
section.
§ 1511.10 ORDERS AND DECISIONS OF THE FIRE CHIEF OR DESIGNEE THEREOF ; APPEALS.
   (a)   Fire Chiefs or designee thereof, or by and through persons working
under his or her direction.
      (1)   Order and decisions are final and conclusive.
      (2)   Any order or final written decision of the Fire Chief or designee
thereof based upon or made in the course of the administration or enforcement
of the provisions of §
1511.20 based upon or made pursuant to this article is final, unless vacated or
modified upon review pursuant to the appeal rights and procedures provided by §
1511.22.
   (b)   Fire Chief’s or designee thereof order and decisions appealed.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by an order or final written decision of the
Fire Chief or designee thereof based upon or made in the course of the
administration or enforcement of the provisions of §
1511.20 or made pursuant to §
1511.22, and desiring to contest the order or written decision may file an
appeal from the order or written decision with the City Council.
      (2)   Preservation of the right to an appeal and the procedure for the
contested case is governed by this section.
§ 1511.11 FOREST FIRE SEASON.
   (a)   The periods of each year between March 1 and May 31, inclusive, and
October 1 and December 31, inclusive, are designated as forest fire seasons. No
person shall during any fire season, except between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. prevailing time, set fire to, or procure another to set fire to, any
brush, leaves, grass, debris, or field containing dry grass or other
inflammable material capable of spreading fire, located in or within 300 feet
of any woodland, brush land, or field containing dry grass or other inflammable
material. Any fire set during this time shall be extinguished prior to 7:00
a.m. prevailing time. Any person who sets or causes to be set any fire
permitted by this section shall not leave the fire unattended for any period of
time.
   (b)   Any person or his or her agent or employee who sets or causes to be
set any fire at any time in the use and occupation of any kind on which the
burning was being done is in violation of this section if fire escapes beyond
the safety strip. Any person who, by himself or herself, or by his or her
employees, agents, or guides or as an employee, agent, or guide of any other
person, at any time builds or use any fire in any field, on any public or
private road, or in any area adjacent to or on any forest land in this state,
shall before leaving the fire for any period of time, totally extinguish the
fire. A person shall not at any time throw or place any lighted match, cigar,
cigarette, and firecracker or lighted material on any forest land, private
road, or public highway within this city.
   (c)   The Fire Chief or designee thereof, or by and through persons working
under his or her direction, may issue permits authorizing fires prohibited by
this section in accordance with §§
1501.06 and
1501.07.
   (d)   On those occasions when the Governor of the state issues an executive
order or proclamation to ban open burning due to weather conditions, the Fire
Chief or designee thereof, or by and through persons working under his or her
direction, may assist in the enforcement of the provisions of the proclamation
or executive order.
   (e)   Permits will be handled by DNR.
§ 1511.12 LICENSE FOR ELECTRICAL WORK.
   No electrical work may be performed, offered, or engaged in for compensation
or hire within the city unless that person possesses a valid license issued by
the State Fire Marshal in accordance with W. Va. Code 29-3B-2.
§ 1511.13 NICET CERTIFICATION FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (a)   No fire protection and fire alarm system maintenance repair or
inspection work may be performed, offered, or engaged in for compensation or
hire within the city by any company unless the company maintains at least one
employee possessing a valid certificate of competency issued by the National
Institute of Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET). All companies
shall be registered with the State Fire Commission and shall provide annual
information on NICET certificate holders employed by their company for the
purpose of maintenance, repair, or inspection activities.
   (b)   All fire protection extinguishment devices or systems not covered in
division (a) hereof shall adhere to the following. No fire protection equipment
or system installation, maintenance, repair, or inspection work may be
performed, offered, or engaged in for compensation or hire within the city by
any company unless the company maintains at least one employee possessing a
valid certificate of competency issued by the equipment or system manufacturer.
All companies shall be registered with the State Fire Commission and shall
provide annual information on certificate holders employed by their company for
the purpose of installation, maintenance, repair, or inspection activities.
§ 1511.14 RESIDENTIAL BOARD AND CARE OCCUPANCIES.
   (a)   All facilities classified as residential board and care occupancies
shall conform to the Life Safety Code, NFPA 101 requirements except as modified
under this section. This section does not apply to facilities with less than
four residents.
   (b)   Resident sleeping rooms shall be located on first and second floors
unless the facility is provided with a sprinkler system meeting the
requirements of NFPA 13, Standard for Sprinkler Systems.
   (c)   Provide at least two approved remote exits from each floor; at least
one exit shall be a door directly to the outside without traversing any
corridor or space exposed to an unprotected vertical opening.
   (d)   Vertical openings shall be properly enclosed on all levels above grade
with hour fire rated construction. If used as a primary means of exiting, all
levels shall be properly enclosed with one hour fire rated construction.
   (e)   Doors shall be side-hinged swinging at least 32 inches wide when
located in means of egress. Bathroom doors may be 24 inches wide.
   (f)   Existing stairs shall be at least Class B.
   (g)   Hazardous areas shall be provided with one hour fire rated separation
or provided with automatic sprinkler protection and smoke tight. Doors shall be
self-closing.
   (h)   Interior finish of walls and ceilings shall be at least Class C
throughout.
   (i)   Fire alarm:
      (1)   An electrically supervised fire alarm system shall be provided and
meet the requirements of §
1511.08(a)(1) and (a)(6).
      (2)   Individual sleeping rooms shall be provided with a single station
smoke detector hardwired in accordance with NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code.
   (j)   An approved automatic sprinkler system is required in all residential
board and care facilities.
   (k)   Corridor walls shall be at least 20 minute fire rated and smoke tight.
   (1)   Electrical system shall meet the National Electric Code.
   (m)   Each sleeping room shall be provided with at least one outside window
for rescue and ventilation and shall meet the requirement for windows in one-
and two-family dwellings of the Life Safety Code. A door directly to the
outside from each sleeping room does not require an outside window.
   (n)   Any carpet located in the facility shall meet the requirements of § 8-
27 of this ordinance for residential occupancies.
   (o)   No door in any means of egress shall be locked against egress when the
building is occupied.
   (p)   Every bathroom door lock shall be designed to permit opening of the
locked door from the outside in an emergency.
   (q)   Every closet door latch shall be such that it can be readily opened
from the inside in case of emergency.
   (r)   No stove or combustion heater shall be located as to block escape in
case of fire arising from the malfunction of the stove or heater.
   (s)   Impractical to evacuate residents in small facilities shall be located
in rooms at grade with direct exiting to the outside. The corridor room door
shall be 20 minute fire rated construction or its equivalent.
§ 1511.15 STORAGE OF DOT CLASSIFIED FIREWORKS WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
   For the purposes of this section, the term FACILITY means any building,
igloo, barn, trailer, semitrailer, or other mobile property. All new and
existing storage facilities for wholesale fireworks distribution in accordance
with W. Va. Code Ch. 29-3E shall meet the following requirements:
   (a)   Each storage facility shall be of fire resistive construction;
   (b)   Each storage facility containing 1,000 pounds or more of fireworks
shall have a complete automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
NFPA 13, Installation of Sprinkler Systems;
   (c)   A storage facility shall not be located within a residential area;
   (d)   A storage facility shall meet all distance requirements set forth in
NFPA 1124;
   (e)   Storage or sale permits shall be issued by the State Fire Marshal’s
office. Permits will be issued only upon verified compliance of this rule and
payment of required fee;
   (f)   An owner or operator shall immediately notify the Fire Marshal’s
office within 24 hours of any lost, stolen, or unaccounted for fireworks;
   (g)   Smoking shall not be permitted in the storage facility or within 50
feet of the storage facility. Conspicuous signs indicating “Warning - No
Smoking” shall be posted at frequent intervals throughout the storage facility;
   (h)   No fireworks shall be sold to any West Virginia resident;
   (i)   A fire alarm system with complete smoke detection shall be installed
throughout the storage facility in accordance with this article;
   (j)   Each display area shall contain only inert fireworks and shall be
secured to prevent unauthorized access to the display area;
   (k)   All sales shall be recorded and shall include the name, address, city,
state, and zip code, business license number, and tax department number of each
purchase;
   (l)   A daily inventory of fireworks shall be maintained for each facility;
   (m)   All vehicles transporting fireworks from a distribution facility shall
be placarded in accordance with U.S. DOT requirements. If less than 1,000
pounds is being transported, a placard of Class C Explosives is required. If
more than 1,000 pounds is being transported, a placard of Class B Explosives is
required. Each vehicle used to transport fireworks shall meet the requirements
of NFPA 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, and Storage of
Fireworks;
   (n)   Each Fire Department providing emergency services to any storage
facility shall be notified in writing of the existence of the storage facility.
The notice shall include information as to the type of explosives and explosive
hazards that are stored at the storage facility. Pre-fire planning shall be
completed by the Fire Department prior to operating the facility;
   (o)   The land surrounding each storage facility shall be kept clear of
combustibles for a distance of at least 25 feet on all sides;
   (p)   Each storage facility shall be securely locked in accordance with NFPA
495, Explosive Material Code;
   (q)   All electrical wiring and fixtures shall meet the requirements of the
National Electrical Code, Class II, Group E, Division I locations;
   (r)   All heating, ventilation, and air conditioning shall meet the
requirements of this rule. No open flame heating units are permitted; and
   (s)   Each storage facility shall be separated from inhabited buildings,
public highways, and other storage buildings according to the distance
specified in NFPA 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, and Storage
of Fireworks.
§ 1511.16 CROSSING EIRE HOSE.
   No person shall drive a streetcar or motor vehicle over any unprotected hose
of a Fire Department when it is laid down on any street, private driveway, or
streetcar track, to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent
of the Fire Department official in command, and upon conviction thereof such
person shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
§ 1511.18 EXPLOSIVES AMENDMENT TO NFPA 495, EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS CODE.
   (a)   As soon as practical after all loaded blast holes (shots) are linked,
they shall be immediately connected to a source of ignition and fired by a
person legally permitted to do so.
   (b)   Pre-loading blast holes (shots) to be fired at a later time are
prohibited. In an emergency situation, this prohibition may be waived by the
State Fire Marshal.
   (c)   Section 4.6.2 of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 495,
Explosive Material Code, the provisions of which are adopted by reference in §
8-25 of this ordinance, is amended to provide that persons 18 years and older
may be issued a Class G Special “Helper” permit to use explosives.
§ 1511.19 PROPANE GAS TRAINING PROGRAM CERTIFICATION.
   Any person who installs or maintains liquefied petroleum gas systems shall
complete training standards and qualifications as established by the National
Propane Association Certified Employee Training Program. Exemption: any person
who installs, fuels, maintains, or services a fuel gas system on a single-
family dwelling owned or leased, and occupied by that person.
§ 1511.20 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   General. The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be
administered and enforced by the Fire Chief or designee thereof and any other
person authorized to enforce the provisions of this article by and under the
supervision and direction of the Fire Chief or designee thereof has the
authority to enforce all ordinances of the city having to do with:
      (1)   Prevention of fire;
      (2)   The storage, sale, and use of any explosive, combustible, or other
dangerous article or articles in solid, flammable liquid, or gas form;
      (3)   The installation and maintenance of equipment of all sorts intended
to extinguish, detect, and control fires;
      (4)   The means and adequacy of exit, in case of fire, from buildings and
all other places in which persons work, live, or congregate, from time to time,
for any purpose, except buildings used wholly as dwelling houses for no more
than two families;
      (5)   The suppression of arson; and
      (6)   Any other thing necessary to carry into effect the provisions of
this article including, but not limited to, confiscating any materials,
chemicals, items, or personal property owned, possessed, or used in direct
violation of the city’s Fire Prevention Code.
   (b)   Enforcement of rules and ordinances. The Fire Chief or designee
thereof and any other person authorized to enforce the provisions of this
article by and under the supervision and direction of this Fire Chief or
designee thereof shall enforce the rules and ordinances as authorized by this
article.
   (c)   Inspections generally. The Fire Chief or designee thereof and any
other person authorized to enforce the provisions of this article under the
supervision and direction of the this Fire Chief or designee thereof shall
inspect all structures and facilities, other than one- and two-family dwelling
houses, subject to this article, including, but not limited to, state, county,
and municipally owned institutions, all public and private schools, health care
facilities, theaters, churches, and other places of public assembly to
determine whether the structures or facilities are in compliance with the
city’s Fire Prevention Code.
   (d)   Right of entry. The Fire Chief or designee thereof and any other
person authorized to enforce the provisions of this article under the
supervision and direction of the Fire Chief or designee thereof may, at all
reasonable hours, enter any building or premises, other than one- and two-
family dwelling houses, for the purpose of making an inspection which he or she
may consider necessary under the provisions of this article. The Fire Chief or
designee thereof may enter upon any property, or enter any building, structure,
or premises, including one- and two-family dwelling houses during construction
and prior to occupancy, for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with the
conditions set forth in any permit or license issued by the office of the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to W. Va. Code § 29-3-12b(a)(1) or §§ 29-3B-1 et seq.
   (e)   Citations for violations. Violations for which citations may be issued
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overcrowding places of public assembly;
      (2)   Locked or blocked exits in public areas;
      (3)   Failure to abate a fire hazard;
      (4)   Blocking of fire lanes or Fire Department connections (FDC); and
      (5)   Tampering with, or rendering inoperable, except during necessary
maintenance or repairs, on-premises firefighting equipment, fire detection
equipment, or fire alarms systems.
   (f)   Issuance of citations for fire and life safety violations. The Fire
Chief or designee thereof and any other person authorized to enforce the
provisions of this article under the supervision and direction of the Fire
Chief or designee thereof are hereby authorized to issue citations, within the
corporate limits of the city, for fire and life safety violations of the city’s
Fire Prevention Code; provided, that a summary report of all citations issued
pursuant to this section by persons authorized under this section shall be
forwarded monthly to the Fire Chief or designee thereof in such form and
containing information including, but not limited to, the violation for which
the citation was issued, the citation number, the date of issuance, the name of
the person issuing the citation and the name of the person to whom the citation
was issued. The Fire Chief or designee thereof may at any time revoke the
authorization of a person authorized by this division (f) to issue citations.
   (g)   Required liability coverage. No person authorized by this section may
be authorized to issue a citation until evidence of liability coverage of such
person has been provided by the city.
§ 1511.21 DURATION FO PERMITS; PERMIT FEES.
   (a)   Permits issued pursuant to the Fire Prevention Code shall be valid for
the period specified therein, not more than one year; provided, that when a
city license or other city permit is required in addition to a permit required
by the Fire Prevention Code, such permit may be made valid for an indefinite
period concurrent with the period of validity of such city license or other
city permit.
   (b)   The City Council may promulgate a schedule of fees to be charged for
permits issued pursuant to the Fire Prevention Code, and all such fees shall be
payable to the City Recorder.
§ 1511.22 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Fire Chief or designee thereof shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee of the property affected, or his or her duly authorized agent, when
there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter
of the code; provided, that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public
safety secured, and substantial justice done. The particulars of such
modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Fire Chief or
designee thereof thereon shall be entered upon the records of the Department
and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
§ 1511.23 APPEALS; INJUNCTIONS.
   Preservation of the right to an appeal and the procedure for the contested
case is governed by this section.
   (a)   Whenever the Fire Chief or designee thereof shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted.
   (b)   The petitioner shall submit an appeal petition by personal delivery or
mailed to the City Council within 15 days following service upon the
petitioner, or within 15 days following actual receipt if service is not
required or for some reason is not made of the order or decision being
contested. Any appeal petition shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and is timely if postmarked within the 15-day period. Any appeal
petition not delivered or mailed within the 15-day period is not timely filed
and the order or decision of the Fire Chief or designee thereof being contested
is final.
   (c)   The appeal petition shall be typewritten, styled “Appeal Petition”,
and the appellant shall submit an original and one copy. It shall be complete
in itself so as to fully state the matters contested. No telegram, telephone
call, or similar communication will be regarded as an appeal petition. The
petition shall contain and include the following:
      (1)   A copy of the order or decision of the Fire Chief or designee
thereof being contested;
      (2)   A clear and concise assignment of each error which the petitioner
alleges to have been committed by the Fire Chief or designee thereof in issuing
the order or decision with each assignment of error being shown in separately
numbered paragraphs;
      (3)   A clear and concise statement of the facts upon which the
petitioner relies as sustaining his or her assignment of errors;
      (4)   The address to which the petitioner desires to have all notices,
documents, and the final order of the City Council;
      (5)   The telephone number or numbers where the petitioner can be
contacted;
      (6)   The names and addresses of all persons having any ownership
interest in the property which is the subject of the Fire Chief’s or designee
thereof order being contested;
      (7)   A prayer setting forth the relief sought; and
      (8)   The signature of the petitioner or its duly authorized officer.
   (d)   The Mayor upon receipt of an appeal petition shall provide a copy of
the petition to the members of City Council and Fire Chief or designee thereof
. The Fire Chief or designee thereof, within 48 hours of receipt of the appeal
petition, shall provide an opinion as to the urgency of the matter being
contested. Any written response by the Fire Chief or designee thereof to the
appeal petition must be filed within 15 days of the filing of the appeal
petition. The response shall be filed with the Mayor and a copy of the response
shall be provided to the petitioner by certified mail return receipt requested.
   (e)   A hearing on the appeal petition shall be scheduled within 45 days of
receipt of the appeal petition by the Mayor. Notice of the date, time, and
place of the hearing shall be provided in writing to the members of City
Council, petitioner, and Fire Chief or designee thereof at least ten days prior
to the date of the hearing. The notice of hearing shall be made upon the
petitioner by personal service of process or by certified mail return receipt
requested. The notice of hearing shall contain a brief statement of matters to
be considered during the hearing, along with a copy of the response of the Fire
Chief or designee thereof, if any. Any hearing shall be held in the City
Council Chambers for the City of Parsons, 942 Washington Street, West unless
otherwise designated by the Mayor.
   (f)   The petitioner may appear individually or by counsel.
   (g)   A motion for continuance shall not be granted unless made in writing
three days before the hearing or during the hearing, in either case for good
and sufficient cause. Upon consideration of a motion for continuance, the
urgency of the situation shall be determined and taken into consideration.
Conflicting engagements of counsel or the employment of new counsel are not
good grounds for a continuance unless a motion is filed promptly after the
notice of hearing has been mailed or unless extenuating circumstances are
shown, which the City Council considers adequate.
   (h)   A hearing by the City Council shall not be delayed or continued due to
the absence of the petitioner or his or her legal counsel at a hearing, after
service of notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing. The hearing
shall proceed and the case shall be submitted for decision on the part of the
absent petitioner or petitioners.
   (i)   Any member of the City Council may conduct a hearing on an appeal
petition and has full authority to conduct the proceedings on an appeal
petition, and when acting in that capacity shall be referred to as the hearing
examiner.
   (j)   At any hearing held under this section, the testimony of witnesses and
the production of documentary evidence may be required through the use of
subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum. The Fire Chief or designee thereof may
issue subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum at the request of the petitioner, the
hearing examiner, or the City Council.
   (k)   Every subpoena or subpoena duces tecum is required to prove service at
least five days before the return date of that subpoena, either by personal
service made by any person 18 years of age, or older, or by registered or
certified mail. A return acknowledgment signed by the person to whom the
subpoena or subpoena duces tecum is directed is required to prove service by
registered or certified mail.
   (1)   Any party requesting a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum shall see that
it is properly served. Service of a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued at
the insistence of the City Council is the responsibility of the City Council.
   (m)   A request for a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum shall be in writing.
   (n)   Any person receiving a subpoena or subpoena duces tecum issued under
this section shall honor the subpoena or subpoena duces tecum as though it were
issued by a Circuit Court of the state, and shall appear as a witness and/or
produce the books, records, or papers in response to the subpoena or subpoena
duces tecum. In case of disobedience or neglect of any subpoena or subpoena
duces tecum served on any person or the refusal of any witness to testify to
any matter regarding which he or she may be lawfully interrogated, the Circuit
Court of the county in which the hearing is being held, upon application by the
City Council, shall compel obedience by attachment proceedings for contempt as
in the case of disobedience of the requirements of a subpoena or subpoena duces
tecum issued from the Circuit Court or a refusal to testify in the Circuit
Court.
   (o)   All witnesses appearing at the hearing shall testify under oath or
affirmation. Every adverse party has the right of cross-examination of
witnesses who testify, and has the right to submit rebuttal evidence.
   (p)   All relevant and material evidence, including papers, records, agency
staff memoranda, and documents in the possession of the City Council or the
Fire Chief or designee thereof of which either party desires to avail himself
or herself, may be offered and made a part of the record in the case.
   (q)   Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded by the City Council. Except as otherwise in this section, the rules of
evidence as applied in civil cases in the circuit courts of this state shall be
followed in considering the admissibility of evidence; however, when necessary
to ascertain facts not reasonably susceptible of proof under those rules,
reasonably authenticated evidence not admissible under those rules may be
admitted, except where precluded by the West Virginia Code or privilege, if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
   (r)   All of the testimony, evidence, and rulings on admissibility of
evidence at any hearing shall be recorded by a certified court reporter. An
official record of the hearing shall be prepared by the City Council. A
transcript shall only be prepared if the City Council’s final decision is
appealed. The cost of the transcript shall be paid by the party requesting it.
   (s)   At any stage of the proceedings, informal disposition may be made of
any contested case by stipulation, agreed settlement, consent order, or
default.
   (t)   Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the person designated by the City
Council as hearing examiner shall prepare a decision supported by findings of
fact and conclusions of law affirming, modifying, or vacating the earlier order
of decision of the Fire Chief or designee thereof. The City Council may accept,
modify, or reject the hearing examiner’s decision. If the Council accepts the
hearing examiner’s decision, it shall sign the decision. If the Council rejects
or modifies the hearing examiner’s decision, it shall prepare a written
decision setting forth findings of facts and conclusions of law. In either
event, the order signed by the City Council shall be final unless vacated or
modified upon judicial review thereof. A copy of the order shall be served on
all parties to the hearing and all attorneys of record, if any, in person or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (u)   The petitioner or the Fire Chief or designee thereof may appeal the
City Council’s decision to the Circuit Court of the county, if the appeal is
filed within 30 days after the date upon which party was served with a copy of
the final order or decision of the City Council. The final order signed by the
City Council is final if the proceedings for judicial review are not instituted
within the said 30-day period.
   (v)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any person from
seeking a temporary injunction restraining the enforcement of any provision of
the Fire Prevention Code pending final disposition of the cause in any case
wherein such injunctive relief is authorized by state law.
§ 1511.24 VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   No person shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire Prevention
Code or fail to comply therewith, or to violate or fail to comply with any
order made there under, or to build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or to
fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the City Council
or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed therein. The
imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   The application of any penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
§ 1511.25 CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   In the event of a conflict between any provision of the Fire Prevention Code
and any statute of the state or any rule, regulation, or order of the State
Fire Marshal promulgated or given pursuant to statute, the statute, rule,
regulation, or order shall prevail; and in the event of a conflict between any
provision of the Fire Prevention Code and any other provision of this City Code
or other ordinance of the City Council or with any provision of another
technical code adopted by the City Council or with any rule, regulation, or
order lawfully promulgated and in effect pursuant to authority of the City Code
or other ordinance of the city, the more stringent provision shall prevail.
§ 1511.26 UPDATING PROVISIONS.
   When amendments to, and new editions of, the Fire Prevention Code are
published from time to time to the 87 CSR1, Title 87, Legislative Rule West
Virginia State Fire Commission, Series 1 Fire Code (State Fire Code), it shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief or designee thereof to file a copy of each
thereof in the office of the Recorder and to notify the members of the City
Council of such filing and his or her recommendations, if any, regarding such
changes therein as he or she may deem advisable in the interests of the city.
Upon adjournment of the second regular meeting of the City Council following
such filing and notice by the Fire Chief or designee thereof, the amendments or
new editions so filed by him and mentioned in his or her notice to the City
Council shall be deemed to have been adopted by the Council for incorporation
in this article as a part thereof, unless provided otherwise by the Council
prior to adjournment of such second regular meeting, and such amendments or new
editions shall become effective when the copies thereof in the office of the
City Recorder have been certified by the Mayor in compliance with the
requirements of W. Va. Code 8-11-4(b).
§ 1511.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person who is violates any of the provisions of this article for
which another penalty is not provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon a first conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $100
nor more than $1,000.
   (b)   Each and every day during which any violation of the provisions of
this article continues after knowledge or official notice that same is illegal
is a separate offense.
PART XVII: BUILDING AND HOUSING CODE
Article
   
1709.   STATE BUILDING CODE
   
1765.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
   
1766.   SOIL EROSION CONTROL
ARTICLE 1709: STATE BUILDING CODE
Section
   
1709.01   Code reenacted; adoption; conflict
   
1709.02   Schedule for permit fees and penalties
   
1709.03   Discretionary provisions
   
1709.04   Manufactured housing
 
   
1709.99   General penalty
Cross-references:
   Adoption by reference, see W. Va. Code 8-11-4
   Building regulation, see W. Va. Code 8-12-13
   State Building Code, see W. Va. Code 29-3-5b
§ 1709.01 CODE REENACTED; ADOPTION; CONFLICT.
   (a)   Reenact and adopt. The State Building Code is hereby reenacted and
adopted as promulgated by the West Virginia State Fire Commission, Title No.
87, Series 4 “State Building Code” as approved by the West Virginia
Legislature, by Legislative Rule filed May 3, 2016, and effective August 1,
2016, as amended, and which establishes the standards and requirements as set
out and as published in 2015 by the International Code Council and American
Standards Institute, and the following codes, as promulgated, are incorporated
by reference as if fully set out verbatim herein: The 2015 International
Building Code, as modified or amended to include § 4.1.g. The ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA
Standard 90.1, 2010 Edition for commercial buildings; 2015 International
Residential Code, as modified or amended; 2015 International Existing Building
Code, as modified or amended; 2015 International Plumbing Code; 2015
International Mechanical Code; 2015 International Fuel Gas Code, as modified or
amended; 2015 International Property Maintenance Code, as modified or amended;
NFPA Life Safety Code 2015 Edition; the 2014 Edition of the National Electric
Code NFPA 70; the 2009 ICC/ANSI A117.1 Accessible and Usable Buildings and
Facilities Code; the 2015 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code; and the
2009 International Energy Conservation Code - for Residential Dwellings all of
which have an effective date of August 1, 2016.
   (b)   Savings. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding pending in any court, or rights acquired or liability incurred,
or any cause or causes under any act or ordinance repealed; nor shall any just
or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired, or affected by
this section; and to that end the provisions of any prior enactment are hereby
saved; provided, however, that all building codes previously adopted by the
city and inconsistent with the State Building Code then in effect are null and
void.
   (c)   Conflicting ordinances.
      (1)   Any existing municipal ordinance that is more stringent or imposes
a higher standard than is required by the above referenced codes shall govern,
provided such ordinance is not inconsistent with the laws of the state and is
not contrary to recognized standards and good engineering practices.
      (2)   Any existing municipal ordinance that is less stringent or imposes
a lesser standard than is required by the above referenced codes is hereby
amended to comply therewith.
   (d)   Enforcement.
      (1)   In addition to any other city personnel, officer, or official
authorized to investigate and enforce the provisions of this article, the
City’s Building Inspector, Deputy Building Inspector, and Code Enforcement
Officer shall have authority to enforce the provisions of this article.
      (2)   Subject to any and all right of appeal, whenever reasonable grounds
exist to believe that a violation of this article has occurred, the
investigating officer may forthwith summon, by the issuance of a citation, the
owner, tenant, occupant, and/or other person or persons responsible to appear
before the Judge of the Municipal Court for the city and to answer said charge
on or before a date therein stated.
      (3)   Each day an unabated condition continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
§ 1709.02 SCHEDULE FOR PERMIT FEES AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Individuals with construction costs of $1,000 and more shall pay a $45
application fee. Individuals with construction costs of $999.99 and less shall
pay a $20 application fee. Any applicant performing general maintenance
improvements to an existing structure shall obtain a building permit, but shall
only pay a $5 processing fee. The costs of building permits will be the same
for both residential and commercial properties.
   (b)   If an applicant has been issued a building permit and they are unable
to complete the project within one year or by its expiration date, the
applicant can file for a one-time extension of one year by paying an extension
fee of $5.
   (c)   Any individual erecting an outbuilding on property that they do not
own, the applicant and property owner must sign the building permit
application. There shall be regulations on these types of permits, which
require that the outbuildings not be more than 10' x 10', no more than one
story high, and not on a permanent foundation.
   (d)   Individuals may install a fence around their garden without obtaining
a building permit, as long as the fence is temporary.
   (e)   Church groups, non-profit organizations, civic organizations, and
government agencies will be required to apply for a building permit, but will
only have to pay a processing fee of $2.
(Ord. passed 7-31-2012)
§ 1709.03 DISCRETIONARY PROVISIONS.
   All code references are to codes as adopted, which includes modifications
and amendments.
(a) 2015 International Building Code.
Section 101.1 - Title: City of Parsons, West Virginia.
Section 114.4 - Violation penalties: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
Section 115.3 - Unlawful Continuance: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
Chapter 35 Insert: Codes: Referenced Standards - (2015 International Building
Code and NFPA Life Safety Code 2015 Edition); 4.1.g. The ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA
Standard 90.1 2010 Edition for commercial buildings.
(b) 2015 International Plumbing Code.
Section P-101.1 - Title: Insert: (City of Parsons, West Virginia).
Section P-106.6.2 - Insert: Fee Schedule: The fees for all plumbing work shall
be those set forth above in Building Code, § 108.
Section P-106.6.3 - Insert: Fee Refund: (100% except minimum cost) (100% except
minimum cost).
Section P-108.4 - Violation Penalties: Insert (Misdemeanor), ($500.00).
Section P-108.5 - Insert: Stop Work Orders: ($100.00), ($500.00), Add: Each day
that work continues after a stop work order has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
Section P-305.4.1 - Sewer Depth: Insert: (three feet, six inches), (3'6").
Chapter 14: Insert: Codes: (2015 International Building Code), (2015
International Mechanical Code).
(c) 2015 International Mechanical Code.
Section M-101.1 - Insert: (City of Parsons, West Virginia).
Section M-106.5.2 - Insert: Fee Schedule: The fees for all mechanical permits
shall be those set forth above in Building Code, § 108.
Section M-106.5.3 - Insert: Fee Refund (100% except minimum cost), (100% except
minimum cost).
Section M-108.4 - Violation Penalties: Insert (Misdemeanor), ($500.00).
Section M-108.5 - Insert: Stop Work Orders: ($100.00), ($500.00), Add: Each day
that work continues after a stop work order has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(d) 2015 International Fuel Gas Code.
Section 101.1 - Title: (City of Parsons, West Virginia).
Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule: The fees for all Fuel Gas Code permits shall be
those set forth above in Building Code § 108.
(e) 2015 International Property Maintenance Code.
Section PM-101.1 - Title: (City of Parsons, West Virginia).
Section PM-106.4 - Penalty: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
Section PM-108.2 - Closing of Vacant Structures: Add: However, before the Code
Official shall proceed with the latter course of action an attempt shall be
made to enforce § PM-106.2 and § PM 106.3.
Section PM-110.3 - Failure to Comply with Demolition Order: Add: However,
before the Code Official shall proceed with the latter course of action an
attempt shall be made to enforce § PM-106.3 and § PM-110.3.
Section PM-302.4 - Weeds. Insert (10 inches).
Section PM-304.14 - Insect screens: Insert: (May 15 to October 1).
Section PM-602.3 - Heat supply: Insert: (October 1 to May 15).
(f)   2015 International Existing Building Code.
Section EBC 101.1 - Title (City of Parsons, West Virginia).
Section EBC 108.2 - The fees for all Existing Building Code permits shall be
those set forth above in Building Code § 108.
Section EBC 113.4 - Violations penalties: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
Section EBC 114.3 - Unlawful continuance: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
(g) 2015 International Residential Code.
Section R 101.1 - Title: (City of Parsons, West Virginia).
Section R 108.2 - The fees for all Residential Code permits shall be those set
forth above in Building Code § 108.
Section R 113.4 - Violations penalties: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
Section R 114.2 - Unlawful continuance: See General Penalty §
1709.99.
Table No. R-301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Table No. R-301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
Ground Snow Load:                     25 lbs./square foot
Wind Design Speed:                    90 mph
Wind Design Exposure:                 B
Wind Design Topographic Effects:      No
Seismic Design Category:              A
Weathering:                           Severe
Frost Line Depth:                     30 inches
Termite Damage:                       Moderate to heavy
Winter Design Temperature:            10ºF
Ice Barrier Underlayment Requirement: No
Air Freezing Index:                   1,000
Mean Annual Temperature:              51.9ºF
Flood Hazards:                        Ordinance No. 730, Adopted September 16,
                                      1986
                                      0001B - October 18, 1995 or most recent
FEMA Flood Map Panels:                0002B - October 18, 1995 or most recent
                                      0003B - October 18, 1995 or most recent
                                      0004B - October 18, 1995 or most recent
Appendices
(1) Residential Code Appendices.
A. Appendix E: Manufactured Housing Used as Dwellings, excluding § AE 304.1
Permit Fees. The fees for all Manufactured Housing permits shall be those set
forth above in Building Code § 108 required permit fee; and
(2) Building Code Appendices.
A. Appendix B: Board of Appeals.
(3) Property Maintenance Code.
A. Appendix A: Boarding Standards.
(4) National Electric Code.
A. Annex H, Administration and Enforcement. Except 80.15 and 80.27.
1. Discretionary provisions:
80.19 (F)(3) insert ten (10) days;
80.23(B)(3) insert: See General Penalty
1709.99;
80.29 insert City of Parsons;
80.35 insert August 1, 2016.
 
§ 1709.04 MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   No manufactured homes under the width of 14 feet shall be permitted for
installation in the City of Parsons from the time this ordinance takes effect
and that all per-existing mobile homes in the city limits, shall be
grandfathered in, but once said manufactured home is removed, no manufactured
home older than the year 2000 will be reinstalled and shall have a pitched
roof.
§ 1709.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision or section of this article for which no
penalty is specifically provided, or fails to comply with any of the
requirements hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day that a violation is permitted to or
continues to exist shall be deemed a separate offense.
ARTICLE 1765: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
1765.01   General provisions
   
1765.02   Interpretations and definitions
   
1765.03   Establishment of the Special Flood Hazard Area
   
1765.04   Utilization of the Special Flood Hazard Area
   
1765.05   Criteria for building and site plan approval
   
1765.06   Specific requirements
   
1765.07   Administration
   
1765.08   Appeals and penalties
   
1765.09   Government actions
   
1765.10   Severability and municipal liability
   
1765.11   Savings clause
Cross-references:
   Flood control projects, see W. Va. Code 8-30-1
   Floodplain area management, see W. Va. Code 7-1-3(v)
   Treatment of streams to prevent floods, see W. Va. Code 7-1-3(u)
§ 1765.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   Intent. The intent of this article is to:
      (1)   Promote the general health, welfare, and safety of the community;
      (2)   Encourage the utilization of appropriate minimum construction
practices in order to prevent or minimize flooding damage;
      (3)   Minimize danger to public health and safety by protecting the water
supply and sanitary sewage disposal in cooperation with the County Sanitarian,
and to protect natural drainage;
      (4)   Assure the County Assessor obtains information concerning
improvement of real property as required by W. Va. Code 11-3-3a;
      (5)   Assure all County E-911 addresses are obtained and kept current to
maintain the established emergency response dispatch systems; and
      (6)   Reduce financial burdens imposed on the residents, real property
owners, and its governmental units by preventing the unwise design and
construction of development in areas subject to flooding.
   (b)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article supersedes any other
conflicting provisions which may be in effect in identified floodplain areas;
however, any other ordinance provisions shall remain in full force and effect
to the extent that those provisions are more restrictive. If there is any
conflict between any of the provisions of this article, the more restrictive
shall apply.
   (c)   Applicability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership,
business, or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any
development, new construction, substantial improvement, repair of substantial
damage, other repairs, or the placement or relocation of any structure
(including manufactured homes) within the city unless a permit application has
been completed and a permit has been obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. In addition, where land is partially or fully in the floodplain
is to be developed, subdivided, utilized for a manufactured home park or
subdivision, or otherwise developed, a site plan with elevation data must be
submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior to any
development.
      (2)   Provision of all other codes, ordinances, and regulations shall be
applicable insofar as they are consistent with the provisions of this article
and the city’s need to minimize the hazards and damage resulting from flooding.
   (d)   Matters not provided for specifically. Where conditions are
encountered that are not specifically provided for herein, the Floodplain
Administrator shall determine the applicability of the provisions of this
article in accordance with its intent and shall require the applicant to take
appropriate measures pursuant to such determination.
§ 1765.02 INTERPRETATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words and phrases used
in this article shall be interpreted so as to give this article its most
reasonable application.
      ADJACENT PROPERTY. Includes any surface tract, regardless of whether such
surface tract is entirely within City of Parsons, so long as a portion of said
surface tract is located within City of Parsons, which shares an immediate and
common boundary up or down stream to the property that is the subject of the
application for floodplain permit. ADJACENT PROPERTY also includes all other
property that may be affected by flooding.
      ADVERSELY AFFECT ADJACENT PROPERTIES. To adversely affect a property, the
increase in the elevation of the 100-year base flood elevation must be more
than one foot at any point. Stated conversely, if the effect is that the 100-
year flood base flood elevation rises one foot or less the property is not
“affected”. This standard does not apply to the floodway. If prior permit(s)
has/have been approved in the same area of the floodplain, the above definition
would include the cumulative impact to the base flood elevation.
      APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental and used for storage
only to the use of the principal structure. This does not include a gas or
liquid storage tank. These structures cannot be used as living space.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood
in relation to the datum specified on the County’s Flood Insurance Rate Map.
For the purposes of this article, the 100-year flood or 1% or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. (See 100-YEAR FLOOD also.)
      BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the entire development,
including the elevation of fill or the lowest floor of a structure is in
compliance with all the provisions of this article.
      COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the special flood hazard area used to balance the loss
of natural flood storage when artificial fill or structures are placed within
the special flood hazard area.
      CONTRACTOR. 
         A.   A person who in any capacity for compensation, other than as an
employee of another, undertakes, offers to undertake, purports to have the
capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to,
subtract from, improve, move, wreck, or demolish any building, highway, road,
structure, or excavation associated with a project, development, or
improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith, where the cost of
undertaking is $2,500 or more. CONTRACTOR includes a construction manager who
performs management and counseling services on a construction project for a
professional fee.
         B.   CONTRACTOR does not include:
            1.   One who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating or consuming them in the construction project;
            2.   A person who personally performs construction work on the site
of real property which the person owns or leases whether for commercial or
residential purposes;
            3.   A person who is licensed or registered as a professional and
who functions under the control of any other licensing or regulatory board,
whose primary business is real estate sales, appraisal, development,
management, and maintenance, who acting in his or her respective professional
capacity and any employee of such professional, acting in the course of his or
her employment, performs any work which may be considered to be performing
contracting work;
            4.   A pest control operator licensed under the provisions of W.
Va. Code 19-16A-7(a) to engage in the application of pesticides for hire,
unless the operator also performs structural repairs exceeding $1,000 on
property treated for insect pests; or
             5.   A corporation, limited liability corporation, partnership, or
sole proprietorship whose primary purpose is to prepare construction plans and
specifications used by the contractors defined in this section and who employs
a full-time registered architect licensed to practice in this state or a
registered professional engineer licensed to practice in this state. CONTRACTOR
also does not include employees of such corporation, partnership, or sole
proprietorship.
(W. Va. Code 21-11-3(c))
      CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility in which even a slight chance of flooding
is too great a threat. Typical CRITICAL FACILITIES include hospitals, fire
stations, police stations, storage of critical records, and similar facilities.
These should be given special consideration when formulating regulatory
alternatives and floodplain management plans. A CRITICAL FACILITY should not be
located in a special flood hazard area if at all possible. If a CRITICAL
FACILITY must be located in a special flood hazard area, it should be provided
a higher level of protection so that it can continue to function and provide
services during a flood.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real
property, including, but not limited to, buildings or other structure, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, oil/gas
well sites, pads, pits, retention ponds, or storage of equipment or materials.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary inundation of water in an area of normally
dry land.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood hazard areas
and the risk premium zones applicable to City of Parsons. A FIRM that has been
made available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway information, and water
surface elevations.
      FLOODPLAIN.
         A.   A relatively flat or low land area adjoining a river, stream, or
watercourse which is subject to partial or complete inundation; and/or
         B.   An area subject to the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff
of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. A resident of West Virginia and/or a person who
has completed within one year of his or her appointment the State/FEMA
sponsored NFIP Class 273 entitled “Managing Floodplain Development” and remain
current with state required continuing education training pursuant to W. Va.
Code 15-5-20(a). In the absence of a formally appointed FLOODPLAIN
ADMINISTRATOR, the duties set forth in this article for the FLOODPLAIN
ADMINISTRATOR shall be temporarily fulfilled by the City Manager or his or her
designee.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land area that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without increasing
the water surface elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point.
      FLOOD-PROOFING (NON-RESIDENTIAL ONLY). Any combination of structural and
non-structural additions, changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or
eliminate flood damage to real property or improved real property, water and
sanitary facilities, structures, and its contents.
      FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level or BFE for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to
compensate for unknown factors that may contribute uncertainty to flood heights
of any given flood and floodway condition, such as wave action, blockage at
stream crossings, and increased runoff from urbanization of the watershed.
      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the development or structure foundation. This
is primarily used for purposes of insurance rating in approximated floodplains.
      HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
         A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing in the National Register;
         B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
         D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
            1.   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
            2.   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without
approved programs.
      INTERESTED PERSON OR PARTY. Include the applicant; the owner(s) of the
subject property; at least one adult residing in any residence on the subject
property at the time the floodplain permit application is filed; owners of any
adjacent property; and at least one adult residing in any residence on the
adjacent property at the time the floodplain permit application is filed.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME DEALER. A business licensed to sell
manufactured homes in the State of West Virginia as set forth in the West
Virginia Code.
      LICENSED MANUFACTURED HOME INSTALLER. A contractor licensed to install
manufactured homes in the State of West Virginia as set forth in the West
Virginia Code.
      LICENSED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. Any person licensed by the West Virginia
State Board of Examiners of Land Surveyors to engage in the practice of land
surveying as defined in the West Virginia Code.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). Lowest natural elevation of the ground
surface immediately adjacent to the proposed development or structure
foundation. The primary use of the LAG is to determine whether the structure is
located within a special flood hazard area by comparing it to the base flood
elevation.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished enclosure constructed with flood-resistant materials
as defined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) and usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure has proper flood openings and is not built so as to render the
structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of
this article.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction as
herein defined commenced on or after July 2, 1987 and including any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
      100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has one chance in 100 or a 1% or greater
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. (See BASE FLOOD
ELEVATION also.)
      PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, limited
liability corporation, partnership, association, or other entity, including
state and local governments and agencies.
      PRACTICE OF ENGINEERING. 
         A.   Any service or creative work, as described in W. Va. Code 30-13-
1 et seq., the adequate performance of which requires engineering education,
training, and experience in the application of special knowledge of the
mathematical, physical, and engineering sciences to such services or creative
work as consultation, investigation, evaluation, planning, and design of
engineering works and systems; planning the use of land and water; teaching of
advanced engineering subjects, engineering surveys and studies; and the review
of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with drawings and
specifications any of which embraces such services or work, either public or
private, in connection with any utilities, structures, buildings, machines,
equipment, processes, work systems, projects, and industrial or consumer
products or equipment of a mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, or
thermal nature, insofar as they involve safeguarding life, health, or property,
and including such other professional services as may be necessary to the
planning, progress, and completion of any engineering services. Engineering
surveys include all survey activities required to support the sound conception,
planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of engineered
projects.
         B.   Any person who practices any branch of the profession of
engineering or who, by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card, or
in any other way represents himself or herself to be a Registered Professional
Engineer, or by using another title implies that he or she is a Registered
Professional Engineer or that he or she is registered under W. Va. Code 30-13-
1 et seq. or who holds himself or herself out as able to perform, or who
performs any engineering service or work or any other service designated by the
practitioner which is recognized as engineering, is considered to practice or
offer to practice engineering within the meaning and intent of W. Va. Code 30-
13-1 et seq.
      PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Where at least 51% of the actual cash value of
a structure, less land value, is above ground (44 C.F.R. § 59.1).
      PROFESSIONAL. Any “professional” including but not limited to a
“contractor”, “developer”, “engineer”, “architect”, “hydrologist”, “land
surveyor”, and the like, acting in any capacity with respect to this article,
must be licensed by the State of West Virginia, when certification or licensure
from the State of West Virginia is so required.
      REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. During the base flood, or any other known
flooding by the Floodplain Administrator, water should not damage structures
and any subsurface waters related to the base flood and should not damage
existing or proposed structures. Ways of determining REASONABLY SAFE FROM
FLOODING may be three feet above highest adjacent grade, above high-water marks
from historic flooding, using topographic extrapolation from contour lines or
utilizing the advisory flood height data on the West Virginia flood tool.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
         A.   Built on a single chassis;
         B.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         C.   Designated to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person who has been duly registered
or licensed as a registered professional engineer by the West Virginia State
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers as required by W. Va. Code 30-
13-13 et seq.
      REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring a structure or other development into
compliance with the requirements of this article, or if full compliance is not
possible, to reduce the adverse impact of the non-compliance to the greatest
extent feasible.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain area subject to a
1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in Flood Insurance
Studies and on Flood Insurance Rate Maps as Zones A, AE, AO, A1-30, and A99.
The term includes areas shown on other flood hazard maps that are specifically
listed or otherwise described in this article.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. (The definition for start of construction is to be
used only when calculating the starting time for expiration of a floodplain
permit.) The date the floodplain permit was issued, including floodplain permit
for substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage provided the actual
START of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the floodplain permit
date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond initial
excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Although a
floodplain permit must be obtained prior to beginning, permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
      STATE COORDINATING OFFICE. The West Virginia Division of Homeland
Security and Emergency Management.
      STREAM. As defined in W. Va. Code 7-1-3u, any watercourse, whether
natural or human-made, distinguishable by banks and a bed, regardless of its
size, through which water flows continually or intermittently, regardless of
its volume.
      STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
      SUBDIVISION. Development that includes a creation of individual land
parcels for future sale. It does not include development where rights-of-way or
easements are obtained and recorded.
      SUBJECT PROPERTY. Includes the surface tract(s) upon which the proposed
development is planned and for which the floodplain permit application is
submitted.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the fair market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
         A.   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the fair
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
         B.   This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, as defined herein regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violation(s) of state or local health, sanitary, or safety
code specifications which have been identified by the Local Code Enforcement
Official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
         C.   Historic structures undergoing repair or rehabilitation that
would constitute a SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, as defined above, must comply with
all ordinance requirements that do not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure. Documentation that a specific ordinance
requirement will cause removal of the structure from the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places must be obtained from
the Secretary of the Interior or the State Historic Preservation Officer. Any
exemption from ordinance requirements will be the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         D.   For the purpose of this definition, improvement is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences whether or not the alteration affects
the external dimensions of the structure.
      TOP OF BANK. The lines depicted on the FIRM maps delineating each side of
a stream indicate the top of the bank. In the field, a professional familiar
with fluvial geomorphology should document the TOP OF THE BANK. When a
professional is not employed, the TOP OF THE BANK will be considered to be the
top of the first significant slope landward of the water’s edge when it is
followed by at least 50 feet of relatively flat land.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
      VIOLATION. The failure of any structure or development to be fully
compliant with all requirements of this article. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required by this article is presumed to be in VIOLATION
until such time as the documentation is provided. No future improvements or
developments can be made to structures found to be in VIOLATION unless the
development is to bring the structure into compliance with the current
ordinance.
§ 1765.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (a)   Identification.
      (1)   The identified special flood hazard area shall be those areas of
the city which are subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given
year as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and described in the Flood
Insurance Study (FIS) prepared for City of Parsons by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) dated June 19, 2012 and April 5, 2019, or the most
recent revision thereof, including all digital data developed as part of the
FIS.
      (2)   The identified special flood hazard area shall also be those
special flood hazard areas which have been identified as flood hazard areas by
the city by use of historic or other technical data and shown on an officially
recognized FIRM or the state’s Flood Hazard Determination Tool Specifically
Advisory Flood Height data. These areas shall be designated as appropriate with
the level of technical data described below and shall be managed accordingly.
   (b)   Descriptions of special flood hazard areas. The identified special
flood hazard area shall consist of the following four specific areas:
      (1)   The floodway area shall be those areas of AE Zone identified as
floodways in the FIS and as shown on the FIRM. The term shall also include any
floodway areas delineated by developers in the approximated floodplain and
designated as such by the community;
      (2)   The floodway fringe area (F2) shall be those areas for which
specific 100-year flood elevations have been provided in the FIS but which lie
beyond the floodway area;
      (3)   The AE Area without floodway shall be those areas identified as an
AE Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA for which 100-year
flood elevations have been provided but no floodway has been delineated;
      (4)   The approximated floodplain shall be those areas identified as an A
Zone on the FIRM included in the FIS prepared by FEMA and for which no 100-year
flood elevations have been provided; and
      (5)   The AO and AH floodplain, those areas identified as Zones AO and AH
on the FIRM and in the FIS. These areas are subject to inundation by 1% annual
chance shallow flooding where average depths are between one and three feet. In
Zones AO and AH, drainage paths shall be established to guide flood waters
around and away from structures on slopes.
   (c)   Changes in designation of area.
      (1)   The delineation of the identified special flood hazard area may be
revised by the city where natural or human-made changes have occurred and/or
more detailed studies conducted or undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, a River Basin Commission, or other qualified agency or individual
document the necessity for such changes; however, prior to any such change,
approval must be obtained from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   The city’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as practical, but
not later than six months from the date such information becomes available, the
city shall notify FEMA of the changes by submitting technical or scientific
data.
      (3)   The city may identify and regulate new flood hazard or ponding
areas. These areas shall be delineated on a “Local Flood Hazard Map” using best
available topographic data and locally derived information such as flood of
record, historic high-water marks, and/or approximate study methodologies.
   (d)   Elevations prevail.
      (1)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed development is at
or above the base flood elevation, and the following is provided to the
Floodplain Administrator:
         A.   Elevation information and a site plan demonstrating that all
proposed development will occur above the base flood elevation; or
         B.   A Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA removing the site from
the SHFA, then the site shall be considered to be outside the floodplain area
and shall not be required to conform to the provisions of this article.
      (2)   If the lowest natural grade adjacent to proposed development is
below the base flood elevation, the site shall be considered to be within the
floodplain area and the proposed structure shall be required to conform to all
appropriate provisions of this article.
   (e)   Boundary disputes. Should a dispute concerning any district boundary
arise, an initial determination shall be made by the Floodplain Administrator
and any party aggrieved by this decision may appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals sitting as the “Floodplain Appeals Board”. The burden of proof shall be
on the appellant/applicant.
§ 1765.04 UTILIZATION OF THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   (a)   Floodway. Within any Floodway Area (F1), no encroachments, including
fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other development, shall
be permitted unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels during
the occurrence of the base flood discharge. The resultant engineering study
shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
Because floodways present increased risk to human life and property due to
their relatively faster and deeper flowing waters, the floodways shall be
preserved to the greatest extent possible.
      (1)   New development shall not be permitted in the floodway where
reasonable alternatives exist elsewhere. In addition to the requirements below,
the applicant shall demonstrate that there are no reasonable alternatives other
than the floodway encroachment before a permit is issued.
      (2)   When the floodway is the only reasonable alternative, the applicant
shall demonstrate that the floodway encroachment is the minimum necessary to
accomplish the project.
      (3)   All permitted uses, activities, and development shall be undertaken
in strict compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained
herein, and in all other applicable federal and state law, ordinances, and
regulations.
      (4)   In special flood hazard areas for which no regulatory floodway has
been designated, the regulatory floodway for small, single lot development not
incorporating significant amounts of fill can, at the discretion of the City
Floodplain Manager, be determined to be the channel of the stream and the
adjacent land areas to a distance of one-half the width of the special flood
hazard area as measured from the top of the bank nearest the site to the upland
limit of the 1% annual chance special flood hazard area boundary.
   (b)   AE Zone without floodway area. Within any AE Zone without floodway
area, no new construction or development shall be allowed unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any point.
   (c)   Approximated Floodplain (Zone A). Within any approximated floodplain
area:
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall use elevation and floodway
information from federal, state, or other acceptable sources when available to
determine the elevation above which development will be reasonably safe from
flooding;
      (2)   When data from an acceptable source is not available, the
Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be reviewed; all
proposed development to determine the amount being invested and the specific
flood risk at the site. The Floodplain Administrator shall then require the
applicant to determine the elevation above which the development and adjacent
properties, including, but not limited to, existing buildings will be
reasonably safe from flooding using hydrologic and hydraulic analyses or other
techniques. When hydrologic and hydraulic analyses are required, they shall
only be prepared by a registered professional engineer who shall certify that
the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The
resulting study shall include a cover letter, signed by the responsible
professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In addition,
studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in sufficient
detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain Administrator;
      (3)   Any development and/or use of land shall be permitted provided that
all such uses, activities, and/or development shall be undertaken in strict
compliance with the flood-proofing and related provisions contained herein and
in all other applicable federal and state laws, ordinances, and regulations;
and
      (4)   Within any apportioned Floodplain Zone (Zone A) without floodway
area, no new construction or development shall be allowed unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative impact of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any point.
   (d)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (1)   Whenever a developer intends to alter or relocate a stream within
the special flood hazard area, the developer shall notify in writing, by
certified mail, City’s Floodplain Administrator, the State Coordinating Office,
any adjacent communities, and any adjacent property owners of all such intended
activities prior to the alteration or relocation of the stream. Copies of all
required notifications must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. In addition, prior to issuing the local permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require copies of all necessary permits from those
governmental agencies from which federal or state law requires approval.
      (2)   The developer shall also assure the city in writing that the flood
carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of the stream will be
maintained. The Floodplain Administrator may require the applicant to
demonstrate that the altered or relocated portion of stream will provide equal
or greater conveyance than the original stream segment. If hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses are required, they shall only be undertaken by a registered
professional engineer, who shall certify that the methods used correctly
reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The resulting study shall
include a cover letter, signed by the responsible professional, providing a
statement of findings in basic terms. In addition, studies, analyses, and
computations shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow a thorough
technical review by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   Alteration of a stream includes placement of temporary or permanent
culverts, bridges, or other stream crossings. The Floodplain Administrator may
require the use of certain “best practice” techniques in the construction of
bridges, culverts, or stream crossings to prevent damage, loss of stream
crossings, and localized flooding caused by blockage. These techniques may
include, but are not limited to, wing walls, trash grates, or requiring
openings to be of sufficient size to pass debris and/or anticipated future
increases in flood heights.
      (4)   All new and replacement bridges, culverts, and other stream
crossings shall adhere to the relevant anchoring requirements contained in this
article.
      (5)   The developer is required to provide the city a legal agreement
detailing all scheduled inspections and maintenance to be performed on altered
or relocated watercourses including culverts, bridges, and other stream
crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the
agreement to the purchaser when the land associated with the watercourse
alteration is transferred. A copy of all new agreements shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the agreement and provide a
signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the
penalties set forth in Section 8.4 of this Ordinance.
      (6)   When any watercourse alteration has occurred, the applicant must
submit any maps, computations, or other material required by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), when notified by the Floodplain
Administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA for this
purpose.
§ 1765.05 CRITERIA FOR BUILDING AND SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (a)   General. A permit is required in order to determine whether all new
construction or substantial improvements are:
      (1)   Located in an identified floodplain, floodway, or other special
flood hazard area;
      (2)   Designated (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Constructed with material and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage as outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) or the most
recent revision thereof;
      (4)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding;
      (6)   To comply with W. Va. Code 11-3-3a concerning County Assessor
“Building or Real Property Improvement Notice”; and
      (7)   Approved by County Health Department for well, septic, and other
permits to assure facilities are designed and located in compliance with the
flood damage reduction requirements of this article.
   (b)   Basic format. The basic format of the permit shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of owner of land on which proposed development is
to occur;
      (3)   Applicant shall provide names, addresses, and valid West Virginia
license numbers of all contractors working at the building site, or affidavits
stating that work is being performed by individuals exempt from contractor
licensing as set forth in Title 28, Series 2, § 3.9(b) of the West Virginia
Code of State Regulations or the most recent revision thereof, if known at the
time the permit application is submitted. If not known, applicant shall provide
the information within 14 days of execution of a contract with its contractor
(s) prior to beginning construction;
      (4)   A description of site location sufficient to locate the proposed
development, including tax map and parcel numbers and most recent deed book and
page number;
      (5)   A standard site plan showing size and location of the proposed
development as well as any existing buildings or structures. The site plan
shall also show all adjacent roads and watercourses with direction of flow, the
lowest adjacent grade to the proposed foundation and/or toe of fill, the base
flood elevation, and the location of the floodway boundary when applicable;
      (6)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to pay any and all fees
associated with the permitting process as set forth in §
1765.07(c) and (i);
      (7)   An acknowledgment that the applicant agrees to allow the Floodplain
Administrator and authorized representatives of floodplain management programs
access to the development to inspect for compliance; and
      (8)   The contract required by West Virginia Code of State Regulations,
Title 28, Series 4, and all addendums to the contract(s) shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator for review within 14 business days of contract
signing. The Floodplain Administrator shall keep copies of all contracts or
addendums in the applicant’s permit application file. The Floodplain
Administrator shall consult with the applicant to redact proprietary and
confidential information from the contracts and addendums that are not
otherwise public information. Failure to present contract(s) or addendums for
review shall void the permit. If a licensed contractor is not involved, or the
work is of an aggregate construction cost value of less than $10,000, including
material and labor, a brief written description of proposed work and the
estimated value will suffice.
   (c)   Elevation and flood-proofing information. All applicants are
encouraged to exceed the minimum elevation requirements contained herein. Flood
insurance rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the elevation of the
lowest floor above the freeboard height required by this article. Depending on
the type of structure involved, the following information shall also be
included in the application for work within the special flood hazard area:
      (1)   All structures, ductwork, and electrical connections shall be
elevated two feet above the base flood elevation and:
         A.   A plan showing the size of the proposed structure and its
relation to the lot where it is to be constructed;
         B.   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing ground,
proposed finished ground and lowest floor, certified by a registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor;
         C.   Plans showing the methods of elevating the proposed structure
including details of proposed fills, pile structures, retaining walls,
foundations, erosion protection measures, and the like. When required by the
Floodplain Administrator, a registered professional engineer or architect shall
prepare the plans;
         D.   Plans showing the methods used to protect utilities (including
sewer, water, telephone, electric, gas, and the like) from flooding to two feet
above the base flood elevation at the building site;
         E.   During the course of construction, as soon as the basic elements
of the lowest floor are in place and before further vertical construction, it
is highly recommended that the applicant check for error by obtaining elevation
data completed by a registered professional engineer or licensed professional
surveyor certifying the height of the lowest floor. If a mistake in elevation
has been made, this is the best time to correct the error;
         F.   A finished construction elevation certificate must be prepared by
a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated qualification. The
elevation certificate must confirm the structure in question together with
attendant utilities are elevated in compliance with permit conditions; and
         G.   A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the applicant
whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that the area below the first
floor could be converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to enclosed
areas below base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This
agreement shall state:
            1.   The area below base flood elevation shall not be converted for
use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this article; and
            2.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective purchasers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the agreement at closing to the purchaser through
notarized signature, a copy of all new non-conversion agreements shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the non-
conversion agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator
shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
1765.08(d).
      (2)   All structures shall be flood-proofed to two feet above the base
flood elevation (non-residential structures only). All applicants shall meet or
exceed the minimum flood-proofing requirements contained herein. Flood
insurance rates can be lowered significantly by increasing the level of flood-
proofing above the height required by this article. In order to obtain an
“elevation credited” flood insurance rate on dry flood-proofed buildings,
flood-proofing must extend at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
         A.   Plans showing details of all flood-proofing measures, prepared by
a registered professional engineer, showing the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed.
         B.   A determination of elevations of the base flood, existing ground,
proposed finished ground, lowest floor, and flood-proofing limits, certified by
a registered professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor.
         C.   A flood-proofing certificate, FEMA 81-65, as revised by FEMA,
shall be prepared by the registered professional engineer who prepared the
plans in division (c)(2)A. above, stating the structure in question, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities are designed so that:
            1.   The structure is water tight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water from the lowest structural element to two
feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   The structure will withstand the hydrostatic, hydrodynamic,
buoyant, impact, and other forces resulting from the flood depths, velocities,
pressures, and other factors associated with the base flood.
      (3)   For appurtenant structures constructed of flood-resistant
materials, used solely for parking of vehicles, or limited storage (appurtenant
structures only), the following provisions apply.
         A.   A site plan prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or
others of demonstrated qualifications showing elevation of existing ground,
proposed finished ground, and lowest floor. The plan shall also show details of
proposed flood-resistant materials usage and the size of the proposed structure
and its relation to the lot where it is to be constructed. The location of the
floodway boundary shall be represented on the plan when a floodway is present
on the site.
         B.   An elevation certificate, based on finished construction, must be
prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or others of demonstrated
qualifications. This certificate or report must confirm that the structure in
question, together with attendant utilities is designed so that:
            1.   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) are used in the construction of the structure from the
lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation and that
all utilities are located at least two feet above the base flood elevation; and
            2.   Hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls are equalized by
allowing for automatic entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               i.   A minimum of two openings have a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
               ii.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot above grade; and
               iii.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves,
or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
         C.   In addition, the applicant shall sign a non-conversion agreement
and notify prospective purchasers of the existence of the non-conversion
agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-
conversion agreement to any purchaser at closing through notarized signature. A
signed copy of the transferred non-conversion agreement shall be provided to
the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the non-conversion agreement
and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator shall subject the
violator to the penalties set forth in §
1765.08(d).
   (d)   Site plan criteria. Site plans are required for all development, new
construction, and substantial improvements determined to be located in a
special flood hazard area and all proposed subdivisions and manufactured home
parks. These proposals shall be reviewed by the Floodplain Administrator to
assure that they are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage. The
owner or developer shall submit a preliminary site plan to the Floodplain
Administrator that includes the following information:
      (1)   Name of registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor, or other qualified person responsible for providing the information
required in this section;
      (2)   A map showing the location of the proposed subdivision and/or
development with respect to floodplain areas, proposed lot sites, and fill
areas;
      (3)   Where the subdivision or manufactured home park lie partially or
completely in the special flood hazard areas, the plan map shall include
detailed information giving the location and elevation of proposed roads,
utilities, and building sites. All such maps shall also show contours at
intervals of two or five feet depending upon the slope of the land and identify
accurately the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas. A registered
professional engineer or licensed professional surveyor must certify the site
plan; and
      (4)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments which
are proposed to take place either fully or partially within the Approximated
Floodplain Area (F4) and which are greater than ten lots or two acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall include base flood elevation data and shall
delineate the floodway.
         A.   When a Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is available from FEMA, the
data contained in that study must be used to substantiate the base flood
elevation.
         B.   If a FEMA Flood Insurance Study is not available, the required
data may be available from an authoritative source, such as the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, Natural Resource Conservation Service, or
state and local Water Resource Department.
         C.   If the required data is not available from other sources, the
applicant shall develop the technical data using detailed methodologies
comparable to those contained in a Flood Insurance Study. This data shall be
prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer, who shall certify
that the methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts.
      (5)   Where the subdivision or other development site lies partially in
the special flood hazard area and all proposed development including fill will
take place on natural grade a significant vertical distance above the
Approximated Floodplain Area (Zone A) boundary depicted on the map, development
of detailed base flood elevation data may not be necessary. In these cases the
site plan for the proposed development must show contours at intervals of two
or five feet depending on the slope, and clearly delineate the area to be
developed and the location of the special flood hazard boundary as scaled from
the FEMA map. A registered professional engineer, licensed professional
surveyor, or others of demonstrated qualifications must certify the site plan.
   (e)   Restrictions to subdivision of land in special flood hazard areas.
Subdivision of land in the special flood hazard area shall result in lots that
include a buildable portion outside of the special flood hazard area and be
served by streets within the proposed subdivision having surfaces not lower
than one foot below the elevation of the line defining the special flood hazard
area limits. All new structures shall be sited on the portion of the subdivided
lot that is located outside of the special flood hazard area.
§ 1765.06 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Design and construction standards. In order to prevent excessive
damage to buildings, structures, and related utilities and facilities, the
following restrictions apply to all development, subdivision proposals,
manufactured home parks, new construction and to construction of substantial
improvements, and the repair of substantial damage, to existing structures
occurring in the special flood hazard area.
   (b)   Basements and lowest floors.
      (1)   Residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential structures. All new construction, relocation,
substantial improvements, including repair of substantial damage, of non-
residential structures must have the lowest floor, including basement,
ductwork, and utilities, elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation;
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so
that the structure is water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base
flood elevation.
      (3)   Openings. For all new construction, relocation, substantial
improvements, and repair of substantial damage, those fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         A.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         B.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
         C.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (4)   Agreement. A non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the
applicant on all flood-proofed structures and any elevated structures when the
Floodplain Administrator determines that the area below the first floor could
be converted to a non-conforming use (generally applies to the enclosed areas
below base flood elevation that are five feet high or more). This agreement
shall state:
         A.   The area below the base flood elevation shall not be converted
for use other than for parking, building access, or for allowable storage as
detailed in this article; and
         B.   The applicant agrees to notify prospective purchasers of the
existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement at closing to the
purchaser through notarized signature. A copy of a non-conversion agreement
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure to transfer the non-
conversion agreement and provide a signed copy to the Floodplain Administrator
shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth in §
1765.08(d).
   (c)   Manufactured home placement. Certain unique characteristics of
manufactured homes installed in special flood hazard areas pose an elevated
risk of substantial damage to property. Therefore, it is required that: all
manufactured homes to be installed within the special flood hazard areas of
city shall be installed by a contractor possessing a valid West Virginia
manufactured home installer’s license. The installer shall use an installation
design engineered to withstand flood hazards specific to the particular home
site. Manufactured homes to be installed or substantially improved within the
special flood hazard areas shall be installed in accordance with the following
standards.
      (1)   The lowest floor, ductwork, and utilities including HVAC/heat pump
shall be elevated two feet above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Elevation shall be on reinforced piers on a permanent foundation or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength engineered for use in
a flood hazard area. Installation designs incorporating dry stacked block piers
shall not be used in special flood hazard areas.
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in compliance with the requirements of 42 West
Virginia Code of State Regulations, Series 19, §§ 10A and 10B as authorized by
W. Va. Code 21-9-1 et seq. The anchoring shall be adequate to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, the over-the-top and frame ties, attached to permanent foundation
elements. Ground anchors may not be adequate to satisfy flood specific
anchoring requirements. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (4)   Permanently attached rigid skirts and perimeter wall skirts of
brick or block must have openings to prevent collapse and damage to supporting
piers. The openings must be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces by allowing for entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         A.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
         B.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (5)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
      (6)   Any additions to a manufactured home shall be similarly anchored
and vented.
      (7)   The licensed West Virginia manufactured home installer installing
the unit shall perform a site inspection and certify in writing that the
manufactured home has been installed to the standards set forth in this
article.
   (d)   Appurtenant structures.
      (1)   When possible, appurtenant structures shall be located out of the
special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Where appurtenant structures not connected to the principal
structure are to be located on sites below the base flood elevation, the
following flood damage reduction provisions apply.
         A.   Use of the structure shall be restricted to parking or limited
storage.
            1.   Structures shall be no more than 300 square feet in size and
valued at less than $7,000.
            2.   Floors shall be at or above grade on at least one side.
            3.   Structures shall be located, oriented, and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
            4.   Structures shall be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
            5.   Flood-resistant materials as detailed in FEMA Technical
Bulletin 2-93 (FIA-TB-2) shall be used in the construction of the structure
from the lowest structural element to two feet above the base flood elevation.
            6.   Machinery, electric devices or appliances, and all utilities
shall be located at least two feet above the base flood elevation.
            7.   Opening requirements includes hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls are equalized by allowing for automatic entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
               i.   A minimum of two openings have a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
               ii.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one
foot above grade; and
               iii.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves,
or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
         B.   In addition, a non-conversion agreement shall be signed by the
applicant stating that the use of the appurtenant structure or detached or
attached garage shall not be changed from the use permitted, acknowledging that
the structure may be subject to greater flood risk and that higher flood
insurance premiums may be possible, and that a change in use may require full
compliance with this article. The applicant agrees to notify prospective
purchasers of the existence of the non-conversion agreement. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to transfer the non-conversion agreement at
closing to the purchaser through notarized signature. A copy of the non-
conversion agreement shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator. Failure
to transfer the non-conversion agreement and provide a signed copy to the
Floodplain Administrator shall subject the violator to the penalties set forth
in §
1765.08(d).
   (e)   Recreational vehicle placement. Recreational vehicles to be placed
within any special flood hazard area shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnected utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
      (3)   Be installed in accordance with the manufactured home placement
requirements and all other flood reduction requirements contained in this
article.
   (f)   Fill. The city officially recognizes the beneficial functions the
floodplain area serves in storage and transportation of water during floods.
Placement of fill in the special flood hazard area is discouraged and should be
minimized. Placement of fill in other areas of the special flood hazard area
shall be restricted to functional purposes such as elevating a structure. Fill
shall only be permitted in the same permit with the related structure or other
functional purpose. Placement of fill to dispose of spoil from excavation or to
elevate yards, parking lots, or fields will not generally be considered a
functional purpose. The Floodplain Administrator may require the developer to
provide compensatory storage before permitting fill. No fill shall be permitted
in the floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with currently accepted technical
standards that the proposed fill will not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation. All fill placed in the special flood hazard area shall meet or
exceed the following standards.
      (1)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the subject property and adjacent properties. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the applicant to demonstrate through engineering
reports that proposed fill would not adversely affect the subject property and
adjacent properties. When required, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses shall be
undertaken only by a professional engineer who shall certify that the technical
methods used correctly reflect currently accepted technical concepts. The
resulting study shall include a cover letter, signed and sealed by the
responsible professional, providing a statement of findings in basic terms. In
addition, studies, analyses, computations, and the like shall be submitted in
sufficient detail to allow a thorough technical review by the Floodplain
Administrator. During permit review, the Floodplain Administrator shall
consider the following issues that have the potential to cause adverse impact
to the subject property and adjacent properties:
         A.   Unacceptable increases in flood heights;
         B.   Blocking drainage from the subject property and adjacent
properties;
         C.   Deflection of flood waters onto adjacent existing structures;
         D.   Increases to stream velocity initiating or exacerbating erosion
problems; and
         E.   Other unique site conditions may be considered when determining
whether fill will cause adverse impact to the subject property and adjacent
properties including, but not limited to, subsidence areas, karst topography,
stream blockages, and steep topography adjacent to the channel.   
      (2)   Fill shall be used only to the extent to which it does not
adversely affect the capacity of channels or floodways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
      (3)   A fill site must be contoured to drain properly (avoid ponding)
consistent with pre-construction conditions. This provision does not apply to
properly constructed impoundments which comply with the remainder of this
article and which are properly permitted by the state’s Department of
Environmental Protection.
      (4)   Fill shall extend beyond a structure for a sufficient distance to
provide acceptable access. For residential structures, fill shall extend
laterally 15 feet beyond the building line from all points before the start of
sloping required in division (f)(5) below. For non-residential structures, fill
shall be placed to provide access acceptable for intended use.
      (5)   At grade access, with fill extending laterally 15 feet beyond the
building line, shall be provided to a minimum of 25% of the perimeter of a non-
residential structure.
      (6)   Fill shall consist of soil or rock material only. Sanitary
landfills shall not be permitted; no trash or woody debris shall be buried on
site.
      (7)   Fill material shall be compacted to provide the necessary stability
and resistance to erosion, scouring, or settling. Fill compaction standards
must be appropriate to proposed post fill use, particular attention is
necessary when fill is being used to elevate a structure.
      (8)   Fill slopes shall be no steeper than one vertical on two
horizontal, unless substantiating data justifying steeper slopes are submitted
to and approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (9)   Fill site and fill must be protected from erosion.
         A.   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of five feet per second or less will be
protected from erosion by covering them with grass, vines, weeds, or similar
vegetative undergrowth.
         B.   Fill slopes exposed to flood waters with expected velocities
during the occurrence of the base flood of greater than five feet per second
will be protected from erosion by armoring them with stone or rock slope
protection.
      (10)   All applicants placing fill in a special flood hazard area shall
obtain a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR-F) from FEMA when directed
to do so by the Floodplain Administrator before a permit can be issued. After
fill is finished, the applicant shall convert the CLOMR-F to a Letter of Map
Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F) before a certificate of compliance/occupancy
can be issued. The Floodplain Administrator is hereby appointed as the
designated official to approve a request for a (CLOMR-F) or (LOMR-F), and shall
cooperate with the applicant with respect to any requirements of FEMA for
requesting a (CLOMR-F) or (LOMR-F), which includes, but is not necessarily
limited to, approving said request and executing Form 1, “Overview and
Concurrence Form” or other form as may be required by FEMA.
      (11)   The applicant shall submit any maps, computations, or other
material required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise
the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and/or Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), when
notified by the Floodplain Administrator, and shall pay any fees or other costs
assessed by FEMA for this purpose.
   (g)   Placement of structures and other development. All structures and
other development shall be constructed and placed on the property so as to
offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water and shall be designed to
have a minimum obstruction effect upon the flow and height of flood water.
      (1)   Whenever possible, structures and other development shall be
constructed with the longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
      (2)   In so far as practicable, structures and other development shall be
placed approximately on the same flood-flow lines as those of adjoining
structures or development.
   (h)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All structures and other development including stream crossings
shall be firmly anchored in accordance with accepted engineering practices to
prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, thus reducing the threat to
life and property and decreasing the possibility of the blockage of bridge
openings and other restricted sections of the watercourse.
      (2)   All air ducts, large pipes, swimming pools, and storage tanks
located at or below the base flood elevation shall be firmly anchored to resist
flotation.
   (i)   Flood protection setback.
      (1)   A flood protection setback equal to twice the width of the
watercourse channel measuring from the top of one bank to the top of the
opposite bank of 50 feet, whichever is less, shall be maintained from the top
of the banks of all watercourses. Specifically, as for oil and gas wells and
well pads, no well pad may be prepared or well drilled within 100 feet from any
perennial stream, natural or artificial lake, pond, reservoir, or wetland. (See
W. Va. Code 22-6A-12(b).) To reduce erosion, natural vegetation shall be
maintained in this area. Where natural vegetation does not exist along the
watercourse and conditions for replanting are suitable, high priority shall be
given to planting vegetation in the setback area to stabilize banks and enhance
aquatic resources.
      (2)   Necessary public works and temporary construction may be exempted
from this division at the discretion of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   At the discretion of the Floodplain Administrator, the flood
protection setback requirement can be waived in whole or part if the applicant
demonstrates that it is impossible to allow any development without
encroachment into the flood protection setback area. The conditions shall be
the minimum necessary and shall be made only after due consideration is given
to varying other siting standards, such as side, front, and back lot line
setbacks.
   (j)   Storage.
      (1)   No materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, or in times of
flooding could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life, shall be stored
below base flood elevation except for mineral storage properly and wholly
within the ground in compliance with other state environmental agency(ies)
requirements.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to substantial damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent
flotation or readily removable from the area within the time available after
flood warning.
      (3)   Due to the potential of masking the natural elevation and making it
more difficult to enforce this section, material that resembles “fill” material
shall not be considered “storage” material for purposes of this division.
   (k)   Utility and facility requirements.
      (1)   All new or replacement water systems, whether public or private,
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary disposal systems, whether public or
private, shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   All other new or replacement public or private utilities and
facilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage.
      (4)   Onsite waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to the system or contamination from the system during flooding.
   (l)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to
flood hazard areas as well as around structures on slopes within zones AH and
AO to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures
   (m)   Backflow preventers. Back flow prevention valves should be used for
all enclosed structures with sewage or drainage facilities located in the
special flood hazard area floodplain area.
§ 1765.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   (a)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The Director of Planning and Development in the city is hereby
appointed as Floodplain Administrator and is vested with the responsibility,
authority, and means to implement the commitments made. Upon appointment of a
new Floodplain Administrator, the meeting minutes with the applicable
floodplain ordinance shall be provided to the State Coordinating Office and
FEMA.
      (2)   Within one year of his or her appointment, the new Floodplain
Manager must attend the State/FEMA sponsored NFIP Class 273 entitled “Managing
Floodplain Development” and remain current with state required continuing
education annual training. (See W. Va. Code 15-5-20a.) In the absence of a
formally appointed Floodplain Administrator, the duties set forth in this
article for the Floodplain Administrator shall be temporarily fulfilled by the
City Manager or his or her designee.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall administer and implement this
article by granting or denying floodplain development permits in accordance
with its provisions. The Floodplain Administrator shall also be responsible for
submitting all required reports to FEMA concerning participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   (b)   Development permits and site plan approvals required. It shall be
unlawful for any contractor, person, partnership, business, limited liability
corporation, or corporation to undertake or cause to be undertaken, any
development or the new construction, substantial improvement, repair of
substantial damage, the placement or relocation of any structure (including
manufactured homes) within the city unless a permit application and standard
site plan has been completed, and a permit has been obtained from the
Floodplain Administrator. In addition, where land that is either partially or
fully in the special flood hazard area is to be subdivided, utilized for a
manufactured home park or subdivision, or otherwise developed, a detailed site
plan must be submitted to, and approved by, the Floodplain Administrator prior
to any development.
   (c)   Approval of permits and plans.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review, or shall cause to be
reviewed, all permit applications and plans within 90 days from the permit
application submission date in order to determine whether the proposed
development is reasonably safe from flooding. Further, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review all objections, comments, protest letters, and other
writings submitted in opposition of said floodplain permit application and give
due consideration to the same before granting or denying said permit.
      (2)   All permits and plans shall be approved only after it has been
determined that the proposed work to be undertaken will be in conformance with
the requirements of this article, state and federal laws, ordinances, and
regulations.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall not issue a permit to any person
who does not possess a valid contractor’s license when a contractor’s license
is required by W. Va. Code 21-11-7.
      (4)   The Floodplain Administrator, before issuance of the permit, shall
require the applicant to furnish satisfactory proof that such person is duly
licensed as a contractor under the provisions of West Virginia State Code. If
the applicant is not licensed under W. Va. Code 21-11-6, a written affidavit
that such person is not subject to licensure as a contractor or subcontractor
as defined in W. Va. Code 21-11-6 shall be filed with the city’s Planning and
Development Department, date/time stamped and filed in the official floodplain
permit application file.
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require and keep on file copies
of any documentation pertaining to the permit from any other governmental
agencies. Whether federal or state or local, that requires site approval, this
shall be submitted to the city’s Planning and Development Department, date/time
stamped and filed in the official floodplain permit application file prior to
final issuance of said permit and prior to the start of construction. This
information shall be maintained for the life span of the development.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall provide a copy of all permits to
the County Assessor as required by W. Va. Code 11-3-3a and provide a copy of
all floodplain permits for new structures to the County E-911 Addressing
Coordinator.
      (7)   After the filing of an application for a floodplain permit and
receiving a properly and timely filed objection to the issuance of a floodplain
permit application, but prior to the Floodplain Administrator’s decision to
grant or deny the same, the Floodplain Administrator may, in his or her sole
discretion, hold a public meeting wherein evidence can be taken or given by
interested persons or parties. Said meeting shall have a court reporter present
to record all testimony and receive all exhibits and evidence. Said meeting
notice shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested to the
permit applicant and the objecting person or entity and placed upon the agenda
of a regularly scheduled Board of Zoning Appeals meeting announcing the date,
time, and place of said meeting not prior to ten calendar days from official
announcement. The meeting transcript and exhibits presented shall be filed in
the official floodplain application permit file.
   (d)   Application procedures. Application for a permit and/or site plan
approvals shall be filed, in writing, in duplicate, on the forms supplied by
the city and shall include all information stipulated under §
1765.05.
   (e)   Changes. After the issuance of a floodplain permit or site plan
approval by the Floodplain Administrator or Floodplain Appeals Board, no
changes of any kind shall be made to the application, permit, or any of the
plans, specification, or other documents submitted with the application without
the written consent and approval of the Floodplain Administrator.
   (f)   Permit placards. The Floodplain Administrator shall issue a permit
placard, which shall be prominently displayed on the subject property during
the time development is in progress. This placard shall show the number of the
permit, the date of its issuance, and be signed by the Floodplain Administrator
or the Board of Zoning Appeals sitting as the Floodplain Appeals Board.
   (g)   Start of construction. Work on the proposed development shall begin
within 180 days after the date of issuance of the floodplain permit or the
floodplain permit shall expire unless a time extension request made in writing
to the Floodplain Administrator and filed in the official floodplain permit
application file by the Director of Planning and Development is granted, in
writing, by the Floodplain Administrator after a showing by the applicant of
“justifiable delay” not caused by the negligence or lack of due diligence of
the applicant. Any extension of the 180-day start of construction time frame
shall only be granted if the permit holder can demonstrate compliance with this
floodplain article, FIRM, and/or FIS in effect at the time the extension is
granted. All work on the proposed development must be completed within 18
months of permit issuance, at which time the permit shall expire, unless a time
extension made in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and filed in the
official floodplain permit file by the Director of Planning and Development is
granted in writing by the Floodplain Administrator. The request for a time
extension shall be in writing and shall state the reasons for the extension.
When considering an extension, the Floodplain Administrator shall consider the
following criteria:
      (1)   Has the applicant diligently pursued the completion of the proposed
development during the 18 months; and
      (2)   Will the granting of the extension be detrimental to public safety,
health, or welfare or injurious to other property.
   (h)   Stop work orders, inspections, and revocations.
      (1)   Stop work orders.
         A.   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
a “stop work order notice” for any development found ongoing without having
obtained a floodplain permit. Disregard of a stop work order notice shall
subject the violator to the penalties described in §
1765.08(d).
         B.   The Floodplain Administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued,
a stop work order notice for any development found non-compliant with the
provisions of this article and/or the conditions of the floodplain permit.
Disregard of a stop work order notice shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
1765.08(d).
         C.   In the event that the Floodplain Administrator issues a stop work
order notice, the floodplain permit shall be stayed pending a determination of
whether a violation actually occurred and/or abatement of the alleged
violation, whichever occurs first.
         D.   In the event of an appeal on a floodplain permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall immediately issue a stop work order notice that shall
remain in effect until a resolution of said appeal.
      (2)   Inspections and revocations.
         A.   During the development period, the Floodplain Administrator or
other authorized city, county, state, or federal government officials may
inspect the premises to determine that the work is progressing in compliance
with the information provided on the floodplain permit application, this
article and with all applicable federal, state, county, and city laws,
regulations, and ordinances.
         B.   If the Floodplain Administrator discovers that the work does not
comply with the floodplain permit application, this article, or that there has
been a false statement(s) or misrepresentation(s) by any applicant in the
permitting process, the Floodplain Administrator shall issue a “stop work order
notice”, revoke the permit, and may request a temporary injunction in the
Circuit Court of Tucker County, West Virginia, if there is non-compliance with
the stop work order notice. The Floodplain Administrator shall notify any
appropriate agency or authority if the Floodplain Administrator finds a
violation of any non-floodplain law, regulation, or ordinance.
         C.   The Floodplain Administrator or other authorized city, county,
state, or federal government officials may inspect any development covered by
this or previous floodplain ordinances to determine whether any portion of the
development has been altered to be non-compliant with the requirements of this
or other ordinances.
   (i)   Certificate of compliance.
      (1)   In the special flood hazard area it shall be unlawful to occupy, or
to permit the use of occupancy, of any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, changed, converted, or wholly or
partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the Floodplain Administrator stating that the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this article. Occupying or
using a building or premises in violation of this section shall subject the
violator to the penalties described in §
1765.08(d).
      (2)   In the special flood hazard area it shall be unlawful to inspect
and approve a permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or
both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until
the utility inspector is in possession of a copy of the certificate of
compliance issued by the Floodplain Administrator stating that the particular
development being inspected conforms to the requirements of this article.
Inspection and approval of utilities in violation of this section shall subject
the violator to the penalties described in §
1765.08(d).
      (3)   In the special flood hazard area it shall be unlawful to install a
permanent utility connection to any building or premises, or both, or part
thereof hereafter created, erected, installed, or rebuilt until a certificate
of compliance has been issued by the Floodplain Administrator stating that the
development conforms to the requirements of this article. Installation of
utilities in violation of this section shall subject the violator to the
penalties described in §
1765.08(d).
      (4)   A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the Floodplain
Administrator upon satisfactory completion of all development in the special
flood hazard.
      (5)   Issuance of the certificate of compliance shall be based upon the
inspection conducted as prescribed in this article and any finished
construction elevation certificate, hydraulic data, flood- proofing
certificate, or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a
condition of the floodplain permit approval process.
   (j)   Fees.
      (1)   Floodplain determination fee of $10, payable to the city, shall be
assessed on all proposed development.
         A.   Proposed development determined to be occurring in a special
flood hazard area regulated by this article shall be assessed an additional
fee, payable to the city based upon a set schedule approved by the city using
the estimated value of the proposed construction as determined by the
Floodplain Administrator.
         B.   In addition, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing
the city for any additional costs for services necessary for review and/or
inspection of proposed development; services include, but are not limited to,
professional engineering and surveying. The Floodplain Administrator may
require a deposit towards these additional costs. Additional costs may include
reimbursement for contracted services such as, but not limited to, court
reporting, surveying, engineering, and the like.
      (2)   Due to the increased cost of processing, when any work for which a
permit is required by this article is started or proceeded with prior to
obtaining a permit the fees above specified shall be doubled. The additional
fee is intended to partially reimburse the city for the additional cost of
processing permits for work already underway. To more fully recover this cost,
the fees above shall be tripled for every subsequent occurrence by the same
person. Payment of the increased fee shall not relieve any person from
complying fully with the requirements of this article in the execution of the
work or from other penalties prescribed herein.
§ 1765.08 APPEALS AND PENALTIES.
   (a)   Appeals.
      (1)   Whenever a person or entity is aggrieved by a decision of the
Floodplain Administrator with respect to the provisions of this article, it is
the right of that person or entity to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals for
the city sitting as the Floodplain Appeals Board. Such appeal must be filed
with the city’s Planning Department, in writing, within 30 days after
notification of the decision of the Floodplain Administrator as announced at a
regularly scheduled City Council meeting. Said appeal shall be served by the
aggrieved person by regular mail on all interested parties on the date that
said appeal is filed. Upon receipt of such appeal, the Floodplain Appeals Board
shall set a time, date, and place not less than ten nor more than 60 calendar
days for the purpose of hearing the appeal. Notice of the time, date, and place
of the hearing shall be given to all interested parties by placing an
announcement of said hearing date, time, and place on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Zoning Appeals to announce the
date, time, and place of the appeal hearing not sooner than ten calendar days
from said announcement date, at which time all may appear and be heard. The
determination by the Floodplain Appeals Board shall be final in all cases,
subject to any appeal to the Circuit Court of Tucker County.
      (2)   In the event an appeal is filed wherein a floodplain permit has
been granted by the Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain Administrator
shall immediately issue a stop work order notice that shall remain in effect
until a resolution of said appeal.
   (b)   Appeal review criteria. All appeals contesting only the permit fee,
the cumulative substantial damage requirement, the flood protection setback
requirement, or the freeboard requirements, may be handled at the discretion of
the Floodplain Appeals Board.
   (c)   Variances. If compliance with any of the requirements of this article
would result in an exceptional hardship to a prospective builder, developer, or
landowner, the city may, upon request, grant relief from the strict application
of the requirements.
      (1)   Considerations for the issuance of variances to this article shall
adhere to the following criteria.
         A.   A decision granting or denying the variance request shall only be
issued by the Floodplain Appeals Board upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the permit would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant, and a determination that granting the
permit will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public
safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         B.   An affirmative decision granting a variance shall be issued only
upon determination that it is the minimum necessary, considering the special
flood hazard area, to afford relief. Financial hardship, used as sole criteria,
shall not be considered sufficient justification to grant a variance.
         C.   An affirmative decision granting a floodplain variance shall be
issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
         D.   The Floodplain Appeals Board shall notify the applicant in
writing and signed by a majority of the Floodplain Appeals Board that the
issuance of a decision to allow construction of a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance, and
such construction below the base flood elevation increases risk to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all decisions
as required in this article; and
         E.   The Floodplain Appeals Board shall maintain a record of all
decisions including justification for the decisions and report such decisions
issued in its biannual report to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         F.   An affirmative decision shall not be granted for issuance of a
floodplain variance for any construction, development use, or activity within
any floodway area that would cause any increase in the base flood elevation.
   (d)   Penalties. Any person who fails to comply with any or all of the
requirements or provisions of this article or direction or order of the
Floodplain Administrator, or any other authorized employee of, shall be
unlawful and shall be referred to the prosecuting attorney who shall
expeditiously prosecute all such violators. A violator shall, upon conviction,
pay a fine to the city of not less than $50 or more than $500 plus cost of
prosecution. Each day during which any violation of this article continues
shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above penalties, all
other actions are hereby reserved including an action in equity for the proper
enforcement of this article. The imposition of a fine or penalty for any
violation of, or non-compliance with, this article shall not excuse the
violation or non-compliance with the article or permit it to continue; and all
such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or non-
compliance within a reasonable time. Any structure constructed, reconstructed,
enlarged, altered, or relocated in non-compliance with this article may be
declared by the city to be a public nuisance and abated as such subject to
other applicable laws and exhaustion of appellate rights.
§ 1765.09 GOVERNMENT ACTIONS.
   (a)   Municipal annexation.
      (1)   The floodplain ordinance in effect on the date of annexation shall
remain in effect and shall be enforced by the Floodplain Administrator for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces a floodplain ordinance
which meets or exceeds the requirements for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
      (2)   Municipalities with existing floodplain ordinances shall pass a
resolution acknowledging and accepting responsibility for enforcing floodplain
ordinance standards prior to annexation of any area containing identified
floodplain areas.
      (3)   All plats or maps of annexation shall show the floodplain
boundaries, base flood elevation, and location of the floodway where
determined.
      (4)   In accordance with the 44 C.F.R. Subpart (B), § 59.22(a)(9)(v) all
Federal Emergency Management Agency participating governments must notify the
State Coordinating Office and Federal Insurance Administration in writing
whenever the boundaries of the governments have been modified by annexation or
the governments has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and
enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In order that
all Flood Insurance Rate Maps accurately represent the government’s boundaries,
a copy of a map of the government boundaries suitable for reproduction, clearly
delineating the new boundaries or new area for which the government has assumed
or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority must be included
with the notification.
      (5)   NFIP participating governments must notify the State Coordinating
Office in writing whenever the boundaries of the governments have been modified
by annexation or the government has otherwise assumed or no longer has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area. A copy of a map of the government boundaries suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new boundaries or new area for which the
government has assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory
authority, must be included with the notification.
   (b)   Permits for governmental entities. Unless specifically exempted by
law, all public utilities and municipal, county, state, and federal entities
are required to comply with this article and obtain all necessary permits. Any
entity claiming to be exempt from the requirements of this article must provide
a written statement setting forth the rationale for exemption and file the same
with FEMA. In addition, the entity claiming exemption shall provide copies of
all relevant legal documentation demonstrating the exemption.
§ 1765.10 SEVERABILITY AND MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   (a)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this article shall be declared invalid for any reason whatever,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this article which
shall remain in full force and effect and for this purpose the provisions of
this article are hereby declared to be severable.
   (b)   Liability. The granting of a permit or approval of a subdivision,
development plan in an identified special flood hazard area, shall not
constitute a representation, guarantee, or warranty of any kind by the city or
by any official or employee thereof of the practicability or safety of the
proposed use, and shall create no liability upon the city. This article does
not create a private cause of action. All applicants proposing construction in
or near a floodplain area are urged to locate construction as far away from,
and as high above, all flooding sources as possible.
§ 1765.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to affect any action, suit, or
proceeding in any court, or right acquired or liability incurred, or any cause
or causes under any act or ordinance repealed, nor shall any just or legal
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired by such repeal and to that
extent the provisions repealed shall be and are hereby saved.
ARTICLE 1766: SOIL EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
1766.01   Definitions
   
1766.02   Grading permit required
   
1766.03   Requirements for grading permit
   
1766.04   Issuance of grading permit
   
1766.05   Term period and conditions of permit; renewal
   
1766.06   Permit fee
   
1766.07   Transfer of ownership
   
1766.08   Stop work order
   
1766.09   Appeal
 
   
1766.99   Penalty
§ 1766.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUT or EXCAVATION. A portion of land surface or area from which earth has
been removed or will be removed; the depth below original ground surface; to
unearth.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A system of structural and vegetative measures
that minimize soil erosion and off-site sedimentation.
   FILL. A human-made deposit of soil, rock, or other material which shall be
approved by the Building Inspector.
   FINISHED GRADE. The final grade or elevation of the ground surface
conforming to the proposed design.
   GRADING. Causing disturbance to the earth by stripping, cutting, filling,
stockpiling, grubbing, or root mat or topsoil disturbance, or any combination
thereof, and includes the land in its cut or filled condition.
   GRADING PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize work performed under this
article.
   MULCHING. The application of plant or other suitable materials on the soil
surface to conserve moisture, hold soil in place, and aid in establishing plant
cover.
   STRIPPING. Any activity which removes or significantly disturbs the
vegetative surface cover, including clearing and grubbing operations.
§ 1766.02 GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or
other entity shall do or cause to be done any grading, stripping, cutting, or
filling upon any real property situated within the corporate limits of the city
unless and until a grading permit has been obtained which has been issued by
the Building Inspector and approved by the City Engineer and the Director of
Public Works. No grading permit shall be required for the tilling or
cultivation of any real property within the city for the purpose of growing
flowers, vegetables, or other plants or for any minor alteration or changes in
the landscaping and gardening of said real property.
§ 1766.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADING PERMIT.
   (a)   Any person desiring a grading permit shall submit the following
information in relation to the real property upon which any grading, stripping,
cutting, or filling is proposed to be done:
      (1)   A plat or boundary line survey of the entire site on which the
grading, stripping, cutting, or filling is to be done. The Building Inspector
can waive the requirement for a plat or boundary line survey if the scope of
the work is of a minor nature;
      (2)   Identification of ownership of the site property together with
supporting documentation;
      (3)   The location of the site property by identifying the address of the
site property and the County Tax Map and parcel number of the site property and
the taxing district in which it is located;
      (4)   The purpose for which the proposed grading, stripping, cutting, or
filling is to be done;
      (5)   The planned or potential future use of the property;
      (6)   Description of existing features situated on the site property or
surrounding the site, including the location and description of existing human-
made features;
      (7)   A description of the proposed development or work to be performed,
including the location and description of future human-made features;
      (8)   A time frame schedule indicating the anticipated starting and
completion dates of the proposed development sequence and the time of exposure
of each area;
      (9)   An erosion and sediment control plan;
      (10)   If fill work is to be done, a list of all materials to be
deposited in, on, or about the site property and which will be utilized in the
performance of the work; and
      (11)   Any other information or documentation deemed necessary by the
Building Inspector.
   (b)   The applications for grading permits shall be made in writing upon the
form provided by the Building Inspection Office and shall be verified and
signed by the applicant and further signed by the owner of the site and the
contractor proposing to do the work, if any.
   (c)   The application for a grading permit must be submitted to the Building
Inspection Office at least ten working days prior to the proposed start date.
§ 1766.04 ISSUANCE OF GRADING PERMIT.
   (a)   After review of the application and all supporting documentation by
the Building Inspector, City Engineer, and the Director of Public Works, the
Building Inspector shall approve and issue the grading permit if he or she is
of the opinion that:
      (1)   The proposed clearing, grading, stripping, or filling is in
compliance with all applicable city ordinances and all applicable state and
federal laws, rules, and/or regulations;
      (2)   The proposed clearing, grading, stripping, or filling is in keeping
with the general character or value of the neighborhood or area in which it is
proposed;
      (3)   The proposed clearing, grading, stripping, or filling does not have
a substantial negative impact or effect on the general character or value of
said area or neighborhood;
      (4)   The applicant’s plan for erosion or sediment control measures is
adequate for the protection of the area proposed to be cleared, graded,
stripped, and/or filled and the general surrounding area; and
      (5)   The proposed clearing, grading, stripping, or filling will not in
any way negatively impact the city.
   (b)   If the Building Inspector is of the opinion that the proposed
clearing, grading, stripping, or filling fails to comply with or satisfy any of
the enumerated criteria set forth in this section, he or she shall not approve
the grading permit and shall state with specificity why such permit was denied.
   (c)   Upon notice of initial denial or disapproval of a permit, an applicant
shall have ten working days to revise, supplement, and resubmit the application
for a grading permit without assessment of any fee therefor.
   (d)   The Building Inspector shall consider the revised application in
accordance with the enumerated criteria set forth in this section.
§ 1766.05 TERM PERIOD AND CONDITIONS OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   (a)   The grading permit issued under the provisions of this article shall
state the following:
      (1)   The period of time for which such permit is valid; however, no such
permit shall be issued for a period of time greater than six months from the
date of issuance;
      (2)   The circumstances under which such permit can be executed;
      (3)   The manner and method under which the clearing, grading, stripping,
and filling shall take place; and
      (4)   Any and all limitations thereon.
   (b)   If the clearing, grading, stripping, or filling of the site has not
been completed within the time period provided for in the permit, the permit
may be renewed in the discretion of the Building Inspector for an additional
period or periods without assessment of any fee therefor; however, if the
clearing, grading, stripping, or filling for which a permit has been issued is
not started and the work is not actually begun within the initial time period
provided for in the permit, no renewal permit will be granted, but a new
application shall be made and an additional fee paid.
§ 1766.06 PERMIT FEE.
   (a)   For projects which do not exceed $100,000 in estimated project costs,
the applicant shall with submission of the application pay a permit fee of $10
for the first $1,000 or any portion thereof of the estimated cost of the
clearing, grading, stripping, or filling as shown on the application, and an
additional $6 per every $1,000 of estimated cost thereafter; however, in any
event a minimum permit fee of $20 shall be submitted.
   (b)   For projects which exceed $100,000 in estimated project costs, the
applicant shall with submission of the application pay a permit fee based upon
the estimated cost of the clearing, grading, stripping, or filling as shown on
the application and calculated as follows.
 
First thousand                  $100
From $1,000.01 up to $100,000   $6 per thousand
From $100,000.01 up to $500,000 $2 per thousand
Over $500,000                   $1 per thousand
 
   (c)   In the event that any clearing, grading, stripping, or filling for
which a permit is required is commenced prior to obtaining such permit, the
specified fee shall be doubled.
§ 1766.07 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real property which has been
graded, cut, stripped, or filled to sell, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose
of such property without providing the grantee, transferee, or lessee a copy of
the grading permit and a written verified statement that the same has been duly
complied with.
§ 1766.08 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Upon notice from the Building Inspector that any grading, stripping,
cutting, or filling of any site within the city is being prosecuted without a
grading permit or contrary to the grading permit issued hereunder or in an
unsafe or dangerous manner, such work shall be immediately stopped. The stop
work order shall be in writing and shall be served upon the applicant or the
owner of the site involved, or to the owner’s agent or person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work will be permitted to resume.
Each day that grading, stripping, cutting, or filling continues after a stop
work order has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
§ 1766.09 APPEAL.
   Any person affected by a decision, notice, or order of the Building
Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this article shall have the
right to appeal to the Board of Appeals established pursuant to the provisions
of § PM 111.0 Means of Appeal of the BOCA National Property Maintenance Code,
which Code has been duly adopted by the city and the provisions of which are
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference; provided, however,
that a written application for appeal shall be filed with the Building
Inspector’s Office within 20 working days after the day the decision, notice,
or order of the Building Inspector was served upon such person. An application
for appeal shall be based upon a claim that this article has been incorrectly
interpreted or that the provisions of this article do not apply.
§ 1766.99 PENALTY.
   (a)   Until an application is made and approved in the manner prescribed in
this article and a grading permit issued, no grading, stripping, cutting, or
filling of any site within the city shall be done; no grading, cutting,
stripping, or filling of any site within the city shall be done without strict
compliance with the circumstances set forth in the grading permit; and no real
property which has been graded, stripped, cut, or filled under the provisions
of this article shall be sold, transferred, leased, or otherwise disposed of
without providing the grantee, transferee, or lessee a copy of the grading
permit and a verified statement that the same has been duly complied with.
   (b)   Any owner, person, lessee, contractor, or worker who performs any
grading, stripping, cutting, or filling of any site within the city without
obtaining a permit therefor or without strictly complying with the
circumstances set forth in the grading permit or without providing upon the
sale, transfer, lease, or disposal of said property a copy of the grading
permit together with a verified statement that the same has been duly complied
with or who shall continue to grade, strip, cut, or fill any site after being
served with a stop work order issued hereunder except such work as that person
is directed by the Building Inspector to perform to secure the site or protect
the site from any unsafe condition shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to West Virginia Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WEST VIRGINIA CODE
W. Va. Code Cites Code Section
W. Va. Code Cites      Code Section
2-2-3                  101.03
2-2-5                  101.06
2-2-8                  101.04
2-2-9                  101.04
2-2-10                 101.02,
                       101.03
2-2-11                 101.04
Ch. 2, Art. 3-3        103.05
3-1-1 et seq.          Art. 501
Ch. 3, Art. 2          103.01
5-7-5                  Art. 149
5-15-5                 371.08
6-2-11                 Art. 149
Ch. 6-11               Art. 149
6-13-7                 741.01
Ch. 6B                 Art. 105
6B-1-1 through 6B-1-5  105.02
6B-2-5                 105.02
Ch. 6B, Art. 2, § 6   105.03
Ch. 6B, Art. 2, § 7   105.03
Ch. 6B, Art. 3         105.03
7-1-3(u)               Art. 1765
7-1-3(v)               Art. 1765
7-1-3u                 1765.02
Ch. 7, Art. 18         725.10
8-1-2                  333.03
8-1-5a                 106.01,
                       1141.01
8-2-5a                 Art. 545
8-5-6                  Art. 103,
                       123.01
8-5-12                 Art. 149
8-5-13                 103.01
8-5-19                 Art. 105,
                       Art. 149
8-10-1                 Art. 131,
                       131.02
8-10-2                 Art. 171
8-10-2b(c)             1141.06
8-11-1                 Art. 101,
                       373.99
8-11-4                 Ch. 1511,
                       Art. 1709
8-11-4(b)              Art. 101,
                       1511.26
8-12-5(b)              517.10
8-12-5(1)              Art. 905,
                       905.12
8-12-5(2)              Art. 905,
                       Art. 909
8-12-5(3)              Art. 311
8-12-2(11)             Art. 101
8-12-5(10) et seq.     Art. 945
8-12-5(13)             Art. 1111
8-12-5(16)             Art. 545
8-12-5(17)             Art. 517
8-12-5(18)             Art. 517
8-12-5(19)             Art. 509,
                       Art. 517
8-12-5(20)             Art. 741
8-12-5(21)             Art. 333
8-12-5(23)             Art. 1111
8-12-5(26)             Art. 505
8-12-5(27)             Art. 505
8-12-5(31)             Art. 533
8-12-5(32)             Art. 935,
                       Art. 941
8-12-5(44)             Art. 509
8-12-5(46)             Art. 149
8-12-5(47)             Art. 149
8-12-5(53)             Art. 149
8-12-5(55)             Art. 149
8-12-5(57)             Art. 101,
                       Art. 501
8-12-7 et seq.         Art. 149
8-12-13                Art. 1709
8-12-15                Ch. 1501
                       1101.01,
8-12-16                1101.06,
                       1101.10
8-12-18                106.03
8-12-18(b)             106.01,
                       106.03
8-13-4                 Art. 721
8-13-5a                Art. 733
8-13-7                 Art. 741,
                       741.01
8-13-10                Art. 505
                       Art. 730,
8-13-13                730.01,
                       Art. 905
8-13-15                733.08
Ch. 8, Art. 14         145.12
8-14-1                 Art. 131
8-14-2                 Art. 131
8-14-2a                Art. 131
8-14-3                 Art. 131
8-14-5                 Art. 131
8-14-5a                Art. 131
8-14-6 et seq.         Art. 131
8-15-1 et seq.         Ch. 1501
8-15-4 to 8-15-8       Art. 133
8-18-22                Art. 941
Ch. 8-19               Art. 935
8-19-13                Art. 935
Ch. 8, Art. 21         Art. 145
Ch. 8-22               Art. 131,
                       Art. 149
8-30-1                 Art. 1765
8-34-1                 Art. 171
8-57                   Art. 103
Ch. 10, Art, 1         139.01,
                       139.03
Ch. 11                 705.05
                       1765.01,
11-3-3a                1765.05,
                       1765.07
11-8-14                115.01
11-8-14a               115.01
11-12-4                Art. 721
11-12-86               545.10
Ch. 11-16              741.02
11-16-2                741.01
11-16-3                334.01
11-16-17               Art. 741
14-2A-4                Art. 171,
                       333.012
15-1F-1                Art. 149
15-2-17 et seq.        Art. 501
Ch. 15, Art. 5         Art. 135
15-5-20(a)             1765.02
15-5-20a               1765.07
15A-3-10               545.03
15A-7-5                545.03
Ch. 16, Art. 1         935.05
16-9-3                 Art. 505
16-9A-2                525.04
16-9A-3                525.04
16-9A-7                525.04
16-13-16               Art. 941
Ch. 16-13A             Art. 941
Ch. 17                 351.07,
                       351.09
17-4-26 et seq.        Art. 905
17-10-17               Art. 905
17-11A-3               373.09
17-12-7a               343.04
17-23-2                365.06
Ch. 17-24A             303.07
17-24A-1               361.07
17-24A-2               361.07
17-24A-5 et seq.       Art. 303
Ch. 17A                351.01,
                       351.04
17A-1-1                501.02
Ch. 17A-3              365.06
17A-3-1                351.01
17A-3-13               351.02
17A-3-14(c)(6)         361.06
17A-3-15               351.03
17A-6-10b              351.12
17A-8-4                349.13
17A-8-6                349.13
17A-9-2                351.04
17A-9-3                351.05
                       301.02,
17A-10-1               345.18,
                       351.03
17A-11-1               349.99
17B-2-1                351.06
17B-2-1a               351.07
17B-2-2                351.07
17B-2-3a               349.22
17B-2-9                351.08
17B-4-1                351.09
17B-4-3                351.10
17B-4-3(b)             351.99
17B-4-3(d)             351.99
17B-4-4                351.11
Ch. 17C                345.18,
                       355.07
17C-1-1                301.01
17C-1-2                301.44
17C-1-3                301.17
17C-1-4                301.15
17C-1-5                301.16
17C-1-5a               301.14
17C-1-6                301.02
17C-1-7                301.31
17C-1-8                301.03
17C-1-12               301.43
17C-1-13               301.04
17C-1-15               301.42
17C-1-16               301.33
17C-1-17               301.23
17C-1-24               301.09
17C-1-25               301.10
17C-1-26               301.11
17C-1-29               301.22
17C-1-30               301.21
17C-1-31               301.08
17C-1-32               301.18
17C-1-33               301.24
17C-1-35               301.37
17C-1-36               301.25
17C-1-37               301.29
17C-1-38               301.34
17C-1-39               301.13
17C-1-40               301.38
17C-1-41               301.06
17C-1-42               301.12
17C-1-43               301.07
17C-1-44               301.30
17C-1-45               301.05
17C-1-46               301.26
17C-1-47               301.40
17C-1-48               301.41
17C-1-50               301.39
17C-1-51               301.28
17C-1-52               301.35
17C-1-53               301.36
17C-1-54               301.19
17C-1-55               301.32
17C-1-60               301.20
17C-1-62               301.27
17C-1-64               301.201
17C-1-65               301.45
17C-1-66               301.081
17C-1-69               345.29
17C-2-1                303.02
17C-2-3(c)             303.03
17C-2-4                303.04
17C-2-5                303.05
17C-2-6                303.06
17C-2-7                Art. 303,
                       Art. 305
                       Art. 303,
17C-2-8                Art. 305,
                       Art. 335
17C-2-8(a)(1)          Art. 361
17C-2-8(a)(2)          Art. 313
17C-2-8(a)(3)          Art. 311
17C-2-8(a)(6)          Art. 341,
                       Art. 343
17C-2-8(a)(7)          Art. 347
17C-2-8(a)(8)          Art. 373
17C-2-8(a)(9)          Art. 339
17C-2-8(b)             Art. 313
17C-2-8(c)             Art. 313
17C-2-8(4)             Art. 337
17C-2-9                303.08
17C-3-1                313.08
17C-3-2                Art. 313
17C-3-3                Art. 313
17C-3-4                313.01
17C-3-4a               313.02
17C-3-4b               313.08
17C-3-5                313.03
17C-3-6                313.04
17C-3-7                313.05
17C-3-8                313.06
17C-3-9                331.01,
                       313.07
17C-4-1                331.99
17C-4-2                331.02
17C-4-3                331.03
17C-4-4                331.04
17C-4-5                331.05
17C-4-6                331.06
17C-4-8                331.07
17C-4-12               331.08
17C-4-15               Art. 331
17C-5-2                333.01
17C-5-2a               333.01
17D-5-2b               333.01
17C-5-2(b)             333.01
17C-5-11(a)            Art. 333
17C-5                  333.012
Ch. 17C-5A             Art. 333
17C-5a                 333.012
17C-5A-1               333.06
17C-5A-2               333.06
17C-5A-3(a)            333.01
17C-5A-3a              333.06
17C-5A-4               333.06
17C-5D-2               334.01
17C-5D-3               334.02,
                       334.99
17C-5D-4               334.03
Ch. 17C-6              335.01 
17C-6-1                335.01,
                       335.99
17C-6-3                Art. 335
17C-6-3(a)             Art. 335
17C-6-3a(a)            335.02
17C-6-4                335.03
17C-6-4 et seq.        Art. 335
17C-6-5                335.03
17C-6-7                Art. 335,
                       335.05
17C-6-8                335.99
17C-6-8(a)             335.04
                       335.06,
17C-6-11               335.99,
                       345.18
17C-7-1                337.01
17C-7-2                337.02
17C-7-3                337.03
17C-7-4                337.04
17C-7-5                337.05
17C-7-6                337.06
17C-7-8(b)             337.08
17C-7-8(c)             337.08
17C-7-9                337.09
17C-7-10               337.10
17C-7-11               337.11
17C-7-12               337.12
17C-8-1                339.01
17C-8-2                339.02
17C-8-3                339.03
17C-8-4                339.04
17C-8-5                Art. 339,
                       339.05
17C-8-6                339.06
17C-8-7                339.07
17C-8-8                339.08
17C-8-9                339.09
17C-8-10               339.10
17C-9-1                341.01
17C-9-2                341.02
17C-9-3                341.03
17C-9-4                341.04
17C-9-5                341.05
17C-9-6                341.99
17C-10-1(a)            371.01
17C-10-2               371.02
17C-10-3               371.03
17C-10-4               371.04
17C-10-5               371.05
17C-10-6               371.06
17C-10-7               371.99
17C-10-8               371.07
17C-10A-1              371.09
17C-10A-2              371.09,
                       371.99
17C-11-1               373.01
17C-11-2               373.02
17C-11-3               373.03
17C-11-4               373.04
17C-11-5               373.05
17C-11-6               373.06
17C-11-7               373.07
17C-11A-4              373.09
17C-11A-5              373.09
17C-11A-6              373.09
17C-11A-7              373.99
17C-12-5               Art. 341,
                       343.01
17C-12-6               343.02
17C-12-7               343.03
17C-12-8               343.03,
                       343.04
17C-13-1               361.01
17C-13-2               361.02
17C-13-3               361.03
17C-13-4               Art. 361
17C-13-6               361.06
17C-14-1               349.01
17C-14-2               349.02
17C-14-4               349.03
17C-14-5               349.04
17C-14-6               349.05
17C-14-9               349.06
17C-14-9a              349.061,
                       349.99
17C-14-10              349.07
17C-14-11              311.01
17C-14-12              345.18
17C-14-13              361.04
17C-14-14              349.21
Ch. 17C-15             303.07
17C-15-1               345.01
17C-15-2               345.02
17C-15-3               345.03
17C-15-4               345.04
17C-15-5               345.05
17C-15-6               345.99
17C-15-13              Art. 345
17C-15-14              345.06
17C-15-15              345.07
17C-15-16              345.08
17C-15-17              345.09
17C-15-18              345.10
17C-15-19              345.11
17C-15-20              345.12
17C-15-21              345.13
17C-15-22              345.14
17C-15-23              345.15
17C-15-24              345.16
17C-15-25              345.17
17C-15-26              301.02,
                       345.18
17D-15-26(e)           343.04
17C-15-27              345.18
17C-15-31              345.19
17C-15-32              345.20
17C-15-33              345.21
17C-15-34              345.22
17C-15-35              345.23
17C-15-36              345.24
17C-15-36a             345.34,
                       345.99
17C-15-37              345.25
17C-15-38              345.26
17C-15-39              Art. 345
17C-15-41              345.27
17C-15-42              345.28
17C-15-44              345.29
17C-15-45              345.30
17C-15-46              345.31
17C-15-48              345.33
17C-15-49              345.35
                       345.32,
Ch. 17C-16             345.33,
                       365.01
17C-16-9               345.32
Ch. 17C-17             347.01,
                       347.03
17C-17-2               347.03
17C-17-2(b)            Art. 347
17C-17-3               347.02
17C-17-4               347.03
17C-17-5               347.03
17C-17-6               347.04
17C-17-7               347.05
17C-17-11b             347.03
17C-18-1               303.99
Ch. 17C-19             334.03
17C-19-3               353.06
Ch. 17C-23             349.08
Ch. 17D-2A             349.20
17D-2A-3               331.03
17D-2A-9               349.99
17D-3-5                351.12
17D-6-2                351.12
Ch. 17E                349.22
Ch. 17E-1              Art. 353,
                       353.01
17E-1-4                353.01,
                       353.02
17E-1-5                353.03
17E-1-6                353.03
17E-1-7                353.04
17E-1-8                353.05
17E-1-9(d)             353.01
17E-1-14               353.06
17E-1-14(a)            353.07
17E-1-15               353.06
17E-1-25               353.99
Ch. 17F                355.02
Ch. 17F-1              Art. 355
17F-1-1                355.02
17F-1-2                355.03
17F-1-4                355.04
17F-1-5                355.05
17F-1-6                355.06
17F-1-7                355.07
17F-1-8                355.99
17F-1-9                355.01
18-2A-9                Art. 501
18A-5-1                529.02
18A-5-1a               529.02
Ch. 19-9               Art. 505
19-16A-7(a)            1765.02
Ch. 19-20              Art. 505
Ch. 19-20A             Art. 505
19-20A-4               505.12
Ch. 20-2               Art. 505
20-7-18                333.03
21-9-1 et seq.         1765.06
21-11-3(c)             1765.02
21-11-6                1765.07
21-11-7                1765.07
21A-6-3                525.04
22-6A-12(b)            1765.06
24-2-4(b)              Art. 935,
                       Art. 941
24-3-8                 Art. 941
Ch. 27                 545.04
Ch. 29-3               545.10
29-3-5b                Art. 1709
29-3-12b(a)(1)         1501.20,
                       1511.20
29-3-21                501.03
Ch. 29-3A              Ch. 1501
29-3A-1                1501.20
29-3B-1 et seq.        1511.20
29-3B-2                1511.12
Ch. 29-3E              545.10,
                       1511.15
Ch. 29-19              Art. 705
Ch. 30, Art. 29, § 4  333.012
30-6-4                 349.08
30-13-1 et seq.        1765.02
30-13-13 et seq.       1765.02
                       361.06,
30-29-1                501.05,
                       529.021,
                       545.03
30-29-4                Art. 171,
                       333.012
30-29-9                333.03
38-11-5                533.10
49-1-206               Art. 525
Ch. 49-4               Art. 525
49-4-701               Art. 525,
                       525.04
49-4-701 et seq.       545.04
Ch. 50, Art. 3, § 2   333.012
50-3-2a                533.99
Ch. 52-1               Art. 175
55-7A-2                525.03
59-2-1(c)              373.99
Ch. 59-3               365.05
59-3-1 et seq.         106.03
Ch. 60                 Art. 521,
                       741.01
                       334.01,
60-1-5                 529.04,
                       741.01
Ch. 60, Art. 3 et seq. 741.01
Ch. 60-6               741.01
Ch. 60-7               741.01,
                       741.02
60-7-2                 741.01
Ch. 60-8               741.01,
                       741.02
                       333.01,
Ch. 60A                Art. 529,
                       529.03
60A-1-101              529.03
60A-1-101(d)           505.01
60A-2-204              545.99
60A-2-205              545.99
60A-2-206              545.99
60A-2-211              529.03
60A-2-212              529.03
60A-4-401              529.03
Ch. 61                 Art. 501,
                       545.01
61-1-9                 501.05,
                       501.99
Ch. 61-2               Art. 529
61-2-9                 529.01
61-2-9(a)              545.04
61-2-9(b)              545.04
61-2-10(b)             529.021
61-2-15                529.02
61-2-26                533.11
61-2-28                545.04
Ch. 61-3               Art. 533
61-3-13                533.03
61-3-18                533.04
61-3-30                533.05
61-3-40                533.10
61-3-41                333.03
61-3-44                533.06
61-3-45                533.06
61-3-53                533.09
61-3A-1                533.01
61-3A-2                533.01
61-3A-3                533.01
61-3A-4                533.01
61-3A-5                533.01
61-3A-6                533.01
61-3B-1                533.02
61-3B-2                533.02
61-3B-3                533.02
Ch. 61-5               Art. 501
61-5-14                501.01,
                       501.99
61-5-17                501.02,
                       501.99
61-5-33                533.99
Ch. 61-5A              Art. 501
Ch. 61-6               Art. 509
61-6-1b                509.01
61-6-14a               509.02,
                       509.99
61-6-16                509.99
61-6-17                501.04,
                       501.99
61-6-20                501.08
61-6-22                509.03
Ch. 61-7               Art. 545
61-7-1                 533.02
61-7-2                 545.01
61-7-3                 545.02
61-7-4                 545.02
61-7-5                 Art. 131
61-7-6                 545.03
61-7-6a                545.02
61-7-7                 545.04,
                       545.99
61-7-8                 545.05
61-7-9                 545.06
61-7-10                545.07
61-7-11                545.08
61-7-11a               545.01,
                       545.09
61-7A-5                545.04
61-8-5                 517.01
61-8-6                 517.02
61-8-7                 517.03
61-8-8                 517.04
61-8-9                 517.07
61-8-11                529.04
61-8-16                517.06
61-8-19                505.01,
                       505.99
61-8-29                509.06,
                       509.99
Ch. 61-8A              517.09
61-8B-9b               525.02
61-8D-10               525.01
Ch. 61-9               Art. 517
61-10-15               Art. 501
61-10-22               Art. 501
61-11-8                501.06
61-11A-4               533.99
61-11A-5               525.01
Ch. 61, Art. 10        Art. 513
62-1-5(a)              501.07
62-1A-1                Art. 171
Ch. 62, Art. 5, § 2   333.012
Ch. 62, Art. 5, § 7   333.012
Ch. 62, Art. 5, § 10  333.012
62-11A                 333.01
62-11B                 333.01,
                       351.99
62-11B-5               333.01
62-12-26               509.06
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     709.01 -
                     709.03,
–      4-11-1977   711.01,
                     711.02,
                     711.04,
                     711.05
                     705.01 -
–      6-4-1984    705.15,
                     705.99
08A      8-7-2008    935.01,
                     936.01
                     945.01 -
–      3-16-2021   945.05,
                     945.99
21A      3-16-2021   942.01
–      11-30-2023  Charter, 2
                    
 
